ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37514	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues as you can see, and in a certain way it has been announced almost 6 months ago that it will come into this amendment and supplement, in the procedure of Parliament, in the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value. We have already indicated at the adoption of the Budget that we will come with such an amendment and addition for a simple reason because then the Minister of Finance Mr Shuker said that it is difficult to accept in view of the legal basis which is a questionable possibility to allocate special funds to pay the difference in demining compared to what is paid from the tax on additional value. So here's what we're saying right now, and that was one of the reasons why we prepared this bill. We are convinced that the Bill of Amendments and the Supplements of the Tax Act to an additional value so in the first reading we proposed it, the Parliament will accept it and will forward it to another reading for a simple reason because we can read daily to slowly announce changes within the tax system. From the one announced by the finance minister as an opportunity to introduce an inter-step for tourism to the latest one offering the so-called unique rate of tax, tax, within the tax system announced by the prime minister, for example in yesterday's interview. But before we move on to concrete suggestions, allow for a number of principles. Our Constitution states quite clearly in Article 51: “It is everyone's duty to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic capabilities.” The tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice, and in this respect it is certainly necessary to seek and propose if the real changes and additions of the tax system, such as those which would ensure, among other things, that in the Republic of Croatia, the equality and fairness of the tax system are ensured. The other thing we would like to point out is the fact that, of course, the state has a variety of options and impacts on, over economic growth and development, mainly sustainable development on the one hand and on the other, mainly on the facts when the economy is difficult, the economic social situation, and especially after the economy comes out of war destruction and war winds. Of course, such state forms of action on the economy can be interventionism. They can be through various incentives of the state. I could be creating an equal chance. Probably on our occasions with, and of course regional development. Of course, this situation with us following the economic social situation in which we are currently facing huge differences in development that show that the peripheral part of the Republic of Croatia is the farther away from the centre, the lower or higher the degree of development in the developmental lagging, should be done and sought a combination of all these forms. And in this respect, it is absolutely certain that the tax system can and should play a valid role. It would have to play a role that opens on the one hand and creates an opportunity for equal opportunities and, on the other hand, encourages economic operators to invest in certain areas for their growth and development on the one hand and on the other, to engage in the natural economic and human potentials of this area in order to develop the comparative advantages of this area, but also to develop the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And that is why the idea of accepting a single tax rate within the tax system which would actually be one radical tax reform of the existing tax system in the Republic of Croatia is difficult to accept in view of two important things. First, the country's economic and social situation is not equally applicable. And secondly, it would not only be unfair and unequal to individual citizens because it is difficult to imagine, for example, that the owner, the tycoon individual has the same tax rates in all respects and income and profit and VAT and that I do not list as one worker with the lowest guaranteed salary. This would be difficult then, in comparison with the constitutional aspect, if it were the principle of equality and justice on the one hand. And on the other hand, some economic operators have equal pay, say, profit taxes when they work in areas of special state care and the same as when they work in the most developed part of the Republic of Croatia in the city of Zagreb. In addition, the best way to do so is to show the experience of the Western European Union countries. And because of this, calling on the West European Union countries to experience that it is good for Croatia, among other things, to have a single rate of tax, that it is good for Croatia to have no interdeployment among other things is deplacement. It is amazing that such things are being called for without essentially looking at the experience and legislative practice, the legislative activity and the practice of the countries of the Western European Union. I would like to say that in 25 countries of the Western European Union, except Denmark, all others, so 24 of them, have one or more steps. That of the 25 Western European Union countries 13 have a zero rate on different groups or individual types of products and services that they tax. Among other things, in order to achieve a truly stimulating, stimulating action through the tax system of the economy and to ensure its uniform application on the one hand and development, uniform development or even development, equal development of all parts of the countries, and on the other hand to achieve a degree of justice and equality in relation to economic and physical and legal entities. The third thing we would like to point out in the opening part is not exactly as they are calling for instructions from the European Union's 6th Guideline that Croatia could not only have a cross-step but also a zero tax rate on a whole range of products and services. First, for the reason we already have it. They don't step in, but we have zero tax rates. And secondly, because this guideline, among other things, says quite clearly that the overall rate could not be less than 15%, the reduced rate less than 5%, and then citrate: “I can still use it and that the zero rate can continue to be used by those member states that had it embedded in their tax systems before the beginning of 1991”, finished the quote. Therefore, two things arise from this quote: First, that the zero rate can be used by the Member States of the European Union. We are not yet members of the European Union, therefore, and on this basis we could use it until we become members of the European Union. And given their decision of the Sixth Directorate, the directive is in fact clear that even after we become members of the European Union because by 1991 in its tax system, we are not talking about what tax system, but in the tax system, the Republic of Croatia also had rates and rates, zero rates. And in this respect, it is quite clear that, in its tax system, when it comes to value added tax, the Republic of Croatia can have zero rates and can actually use the tax system as an instrument for fostering the growth and development of the Croatian economy on the one hand, as an instrument for harmonising and achieving the regional policy of the Republic of Croatia and as an instrument of principle of equality and justice to be achieved in relation to the users of the tax system and taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia. When so and when that fact is so, then it is quite clear that the opinion of the Government which has been delivered on our proposal for the law is, in fact, one part one-sided, and the other part superficially, because it did not end up using everything that is referred to on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is clear that it has practically tried to use only what goes in favour to reject the bill's proposal, not what should be used as an instrument that should objectively inform the Croatian Assembly about the possibilities within the tax system. But what surprises us as the legislators of this bill is that, in parallel with this opinion, new ideas of a reform of the tax system that does not include reform of small or such, or of such a VAT as the whole of the tax system as such, in a new way that, in practice, by the degree of inequality and unfairness of the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, would further increase and make even greater differences between those who are economically weaker than those in favour of the economically stronger ones. We can understand that if it's a ruling coalition policy. It's one form of Neo Liberal Policy. We can understand that part, but let us express our public view that we cannot agree on it and that we cannot support it as legislators of this bill. Among other things, because of the fact that such a situation in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately not in an economic and social situation so that we can even think about such a tax system. Now allow me a few words about what we're proposing. We did not opt to go at a rate this time because we believe that we should reach a wider level of agreement. Although it would be necessary to develop regionally and to obtain peripherally lagging parts of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, in particular the agricultural and food system. Then, the issue of tourism, consider at least being introduced among the rate for agricultural and food products services and for tourism services in the Republic of Croatia. Because it is quite clear now that the brakes on the one hand have become the development of these activities, and on the other hand, such a rate would be a significant incentive not only for the development of the agricultural and food system, but also for the agricultural system as a raw material base for a whole series of industrial branches on the one hand and for the provision of tourism services in tourism that is and must be indirect exports of the Republic of Croatia. We have chosen to try to achieve a greater degree of equality and justice in solving some of the fundamental issues, among them and those which are the assumption that, in a broader sense, these words are put into operation a fundamental part, in fact, a basic object, raw material, and if you want the conditions of work in the agricultural and food system and not only in the agricultural and food system, but also in forestry, including a whole series of other natural resources. And that's why we suggest introducing a rate, a zero rate amongst other things and demining. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is unacceptable for us to discuss the issue so long that we have a significant part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia that we still have situations where even such things happen in demining procedures, that our farmers themselves, with their working tools, demining individual surfaces and bringing mines into demining companies, and at the same time that we have a situation that has been carried out to absurdity, that we often get inside the country and outside the country donations for demining which we then tax 22% and actually fill the state budget. Which is too much, too much, even for us. And we really believe that the time has come for the funds to mine the full tax and tax exemption and for this zero rate to be applied to demining funds that will significantly increase the amount of these funds and open the procedure to finally demining the areas from Baranja, Slavonia, Eastern Slavonia, Western Srijem via our Banovina, Like, Dalmatian hinterland all the way to Dubrovnik, i.e. to Prevlaka. And that we finally have places where not only people will be able to return, but which will be able to put themselves into an economic-social function, i.e. the market social economy as a bearer of growth and development and employment of an unemployed large number of people. The second thing we think is the fact that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, there is more and more white death, namely that we have such a demographic picture that is completely unfavourable, that we have an ever older and older population and that we have a negative trend in all of this for a simple reason because children are still less born than the population dies. For this reason, we find it a little pathetic to talk about demographic recovery, and at the same time, in a material and economic sense, not to support, find, find, find appropriate instruments that will practically support families in order not only to have more children, but also to have better opportunities, material-economic opportunities for raising and training these children. And that is why we propose, in addition to the measures provided for in national policy, that the tax system also allows for children's clothing and shoes, children's food, hygiene supplies for children, etc., to help raise and educate children up to 7 years old to eliminate the value added tax rate, i.e. to be zero rates as in most European countries, this exists in the very environment around us. Third. We often say that our population has not been sufficiently informed, that our population, unfortunately, and in this pre-election, electoral activity that has taken place, has not, among other things, been sufficiently informed not only of the situation in the country, the difficult economic, social situation, but also of the loss of trust in politicians and politicians, but also of the fact that they have not been sufficiently informed at all about the situation and the programmes offered by certain parties and independent lists before local and regional elections, and one part of it, I say, we acknowledge, and at the same time we present a whole series of facts and data that point to a small reading of newspapers and media. And now that we're proposing that a zero rate be introduced to the newspaper, then of course questions are raised, and why? Well, of course, it would lower the price of the daily press and allow people to read, to be as well informed as possible and to ensure practically their more active, not only political life but every other part. Because, let's not forget the social life, let's not forget that our newspaper, our press, our media practically provide a whole series of information that essentially covers the political-informative part through a cultural, to the current part of the relationship... Plus sports and entertainment. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, there are two other important issues that are very, very important for the development of solidarity, for the application of solidarity in the Republic of Croatia, humanitarian action. The fact is that unfortunately we also have such situations that, for example, the Croatian Red Cross last year organized about 50 thousand packages for the division of persons who have received on the eve of Christmas and New Year, to share to people who had received less than 400 kn per head of the household. That he not only organized it but also shared it and that he collected funds with the will and good actions of volunteers and well-intentioned citizens of this country and that, when he handed it all over, unfortunately, he received the bill to pay 22% afterwards. Well, that's how it went, so last year, it's similar to Caritas. And in such a situation you should definitely say, so give it if there are associations, in this case the Red Cross, Caritas or some other one that might appear or want to appear, which provides a form of high degree of solidarity to help people in need. So let's not make it more difficult for them, let's try to relieve them of their additional obligations and let's not end up taking the country's incomes on the most socially needed accidents. Because it's to that extent actually absurd. Turns out, no matter what we're about to say, when we have these things, we're basically socially insensitive regardless of who represents power and what parties or coalitions are in power. We simply must do so for our own sake and for the sake of the community in which we are in my deep conviction and belief that we who propose this bill accept and try to resolve. And it's a similar situation when we get donations to associations and trusts and institutions from abroad. Let us not forget, for example, all the problems that the Ministry of Finance had in the past and the previous assembly of the Parliament, even in this case when it came to donations such as construction, from abroad building individual bridges across the Sava, through the Cup or building certain destroyed objects when it was necessary to charge an additional value tax because the new donors did not understand that after building the facility he could not get a useful permit because he did not pay the tax on an additional value. And now the Maltas not our ministry would at that time be willing to provide the donors with 22% more. So it's too much again, it's too much. And we think that these questions should definitely be cleared up. Because in fact, this is not about the classical import of goods from abroad which are not taxed there by additional value tax, so that they are, of course, taxed with us, but rather about donations either in money or in material goods which are actually doing major humanitarian services for the needs of the social and state union of the Republic of Croatia. And it doesn't make sense to tax them extra. And of course the last thing we specifically suggest is the question of expanding disabled aids. We believe that, as a disabled aid, a car should also be introduced for people with a disability rate of 80 percent and more. As you know, such a degree of disability implies that people are generally without extremes, and such persons need to have a disabled helper. Of course not every year, but every 5 years, i.e. how the amortisation period lasts for cars for 10 years, so in fact, when it exceeds more than 50% of the amortised means that it can be replaced and that in such cases it should not be applied the extra value tax, but should be released to actually help this difficult category of people with disabilities. In particular, what we wanted to do was to put a point on and on about the dispute over issues that were essentially for the legislator at the time when the law was passed was not disputed. It is a fee on Croatian radio television. As you know, it's not an accident for law-making to use the term tax. In this way, it was also intended to point out in both terms and substance that it was not about paying the price of the service by the viewers and subscribers of Croatian television to Croatian television, but rather about a tax or a taxi that actually supported the financing and operation of public television to perform public functions within the social and state community, of course television. And in this respect, we felt it would be totally uncontestable not to pay an additional value tax on that income by Croatian Radio-Television. But as you know, the fact is that this question is not undeniable, however, even if we have information, we have disputes in front of courts about it, because actually the Ministry of Finance wants to charge in every situation in this part of the tax. We believe that this issue should also be covered definitely by this Additional Value Tax Act as a "lex specialis" to remove the issue of paying taxes on television tax for a simple reason because it is a sum of tax as a tax and it is not the price of a service and could not be charged. We can demonstrate the fact that we have an understanding of the Ministry of Finance that in this difficult economic and social situation and the budgetary situation it is very difficult to reduce any budgetary revenue provided that budget revenues are not equal or that they do not follow the budget or that budget revenues are falling. But the fact is that we have a steady increase in budget revenues, that budget revenues when it comes to taxes on donations and assets, then income tax is growing somewhere around 5.7% a year, that somewhere around 3.5% of tax revenues are growing from the VAT aspect, and in this respect the question is actually being raised, and what is actually the basic reason for the constant budget deficit? So the basic reason why new and new forms of budgetary spending are constantly increasing is that they are not properly planned or planned. And besides, because a part of the obligations that normally by nature things should not be the obligations of the state or of the budgetary nature are actually taken over. And that is why we believe that, in the coming period, a better budget should be planned and not because of the unquality and unrealistic budget planning, we should reject the proposals of the law which in the first stage will, however, reduce revenue, but of course in the second stage, given that it will certainly not only create the preconditions for faster economic growth and development, but will also open up the possibility of indirect filling, greater budgeting and increasing revenues in the budget, because it will simply engage a greater number of human resources, economic resources, natural resources for economic purposes, which will actually enable the overall growth of the national gross product and, of course, the overall growth of national income, which will increase the tax base on which these tax rates will be applied and done. And certainly a special thing, with this change and the addition of tax law to additional value certainly increases the achievement of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia's rule of law from an increased level of equality and justice in our natural and legal persons, among our citizens in tax obligations and tax duties that should be done. For this reason, we call on you to discuss this Bill proposal in principle, that this debate is in fact a matter of whether and to what extent should be changed, whether the announced changes to the tax system should be radically changed, and, of course, to support it to go into another reading and to find a solution in the second reading to accept these rates, and, if necessary, if we are really committed to accelerated economic growth and development to start applying and regional development and trying to reduce regional, huge regional differences, then consider the possibility of introducing and between the rates and the second reading, and it is possible to install this, of course if all the meetings in the Assembly agree on it and to support it and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37515	Thank you. Reporters of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The chairman of the Shime Swarf Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37516	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Given the specificity of the proposal, allow me to explain the committee's position. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 29th session held on 17 May 2005. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxes submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjević, Dragica Zgrebec, representatives of the Croatian Parliament by act of 15 February 2005. The financial committee and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on the competence of Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as a parent working body. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament was not the present proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, and the Committee held a debate without the presence of the applicant. The Committee also held a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the law in question proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act proposed by representatives Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjević and Dragica Zgrebec. In that opinion, it was noted that the extension of the cycle of products taxed at a rate of 0% and the release of VAT on the Croatian broadcasting fee would result in a reduction in the revenues of the state budget, without even assessing the negative effects of the reduction of budgetary revenues on the basis of the proposed law in question. In addition, the European Commission, in its opinion on the request of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union in Chapter 10 of the Taxation, pointed out that the Croatian rules on value added tax do not comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, citing exactly the existence of a 0% rate for supplies made abroad. At the same time, in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, the issue of tax exemptions for public television activities will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Sixth Guideline. In the Committee's debate, the opinion was expressed that it is difficult for the Ministry of Finance to fully accept such a bill, but in view of the high level of coverage of the Republic of Croatia mines, it is particularly necessary to consider the application of value added tax at 0% on services, i.e. demining operations. In this respect, it is noted that the international and European aid to post-war reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia and demining was minor and the payment of a zero VAT rate would speed up the demining process. There have been some opinions on this, with the alignment of the Sixth Guideline and a question has been expressed about the need to adopt all the European Union guidelines. Following the debate on the proposed draft legislation proposed by the representatives of Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjevic and Dragica Zgrebec, one member of the Committee was abstentioned, and six members of the Committee voted against the bill, and therefore the Committee on Finance and State Budget decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37517	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37518	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Representatives Club understands that the legislator of this amendment had good intentions, improved several areas of activity, but we believe that the path proposed is wrong because much better effects can be achieved by reorganising different donations, donations, etc. Such a bill drills the value added tax system, which is very dangerous. The VAT is a fair, efficient and easily enforceable tax and is therefore accepted by most countries in the world, but on one condition, on the condition that all taxpayers, good and firm controls and a small number of exceptions are well recorded. Where and how to stop exceptions is the biggest problem and about him we will now speak our views here. The unique rate is, in our opinion, more socially just than differentiated, because the reduction in the rate also suits those who have more and those who do not have or have less, and of course it is not social. This proposal breaks the line of VAT rules because it expands the zero rate of tax on those benefits that we already have in our system, these are some living foods, these are devices that are built in order to treat the body, they are orthopedic aids according to a special rule, some books of special content, scientific, professional, educational etc. It's always possible to expand this list, but the question is where to stop without breaking the whole system. We believe that the system with this expansion would be thoroughly disrupted. The proposer considers that a zero rate should be introduced into the following goods or services. First, children’s food and other children’s needs, especially educational aids. First of all, we think it's a pretty broad definition of training aids, so you just have to say what products are and where to stop. What is second is that this is because of the fosterment of demographic reconstruction and demographic development in Croatia, that is, for the purpose of demographic policy. However, we know that the national programme of demographic development brought by the Parliament in 1966 does not foresee a zero tax rate but predicts the substitution of such benefits with a number of others. Second, better effects in terms of demographic policy and its development can be given by incentives, for example. for non-employed children's textbooks, newborn equipment, etc. A greater and fairer effect can be achieved because it will go to those who are in greater need. As far as daily newspapers are concerned, the argument is that it should be a zero rate because daily newspapers are poorly bought because they are expensive, so the information is poorly available to interfere with the development of democracy. We believe daily newspapers like today are not the only sources of information. We also have electronic media and a whole series of other means that inform our public and that the price of daily newspapers is not crucial to the development of democracy for two reasons. First, because the content of these newspapers due to market conditions is always market-colored, always ideologically colored, often and politically so the information given by the newspaper is least objective and least developed by democracy. Secondly, due to market conditions, 50% of newspapers today are different ads, so the reduction of the rate, i.e. the elimination of VAT rates on such market action of daily presses, is considered to be absolutely no place in our tax system. Demining, an area that should certainly be improved and encouraged but not by abolishing the tax rate, i.e. by introducing a zero rate. The state stands out for demining as little as it can and these are not small funds, but ineffectiveness is not because of the rate of tax but because of bad organisation and cooperation. On the one hand, a large group of private companies, and we know what the problem is, on the other hand, the state company "Mungos" in which there is a complete mess and that has come into bankruptcy because of poor governance. So we believe that a much greater effect in demining could be achieved to bring order into demining between these companies, order in "Mungos" and that the savings would be much greater than 22% of the tax. The fourth proposal is to introduce a zero rate for donations to associations. The number of purposes of the associations in Croatia is so large that they cannot all be reduced under the same hat of state aid. We must point out that there are associations that hide under that name, which have a purely profitable and profitable business, there are associations that hide with their political activities, and we believe that all associations can't subside under a zero rate because then these two groups would further stimulate what would certainly be socially useless. As for helping domestic humanitarian organisations and their gifts to natural persons, and humanitarian organisations such as the Croatian Red Cross and others, they are already getting good incentives from the state directly or indirectly through the "Lutria" funds and we believe that this kind of disorder would be ineffective. For people with disabilities with 80% and more disability, the tax rate must be reduced, and the state makes decisions every year just to avoid destroying the VAT system and making reliefs that are then without borders. We believe that the tax payable to HRT should be the obligation of that house, such as the obligation and all other information media. HRT refuses to pay taxes on the grounds that paying HRT is not a service tax but a TV receiver's possession. Of course, it's quite easy to crash because if I do, I seal my receiver, I stop paying the fee, and I still own my receiver. So, it's a typical tax on a service that must remain and that must also be charged to HRT because of tax discipline. A team before the HRT as a public house crosses the frameworks of a public institution because it gets more and more into the competition and increasingly extends the time of advertising. So private television companies joined together to legalise business and pay respect to HRT legal provisions on the length of the propaganda programme. This would end the VAT and the propaganda programme, which is certainly not an integral part of the public function of HRT. HRT could reach these funds, and I remind HRT receives somewhere between 700 and 800 million kuna per year from our fees. It's about 50% and some business. You could come from these funds, this 22% if you could bring your business into line with the law. Just look at the results of the HRT business audits, and you'll see. First of all, they don't charge their services, their advertising services, for more than a year, and they lose a lot of money with it. Second, they get against the law on the purchase of goods and services, and they lose huge money. They have 4 000 640 operating contracts at the time of the revision, avoiding certain grantings to the State, etc. The situation in the financial part of the HRT needs to be settled, so there will be more than a release of these 22%. Finally, HRT is increasingly doing its public information function because the information of HRT is not public at all. It's colored and focused. Who doesn't believe to see the video of yesterday's Latina? And by comparison, we haven't been able to get permission to broadcast 8 30-minute shows called "Sanity in the Homeland War". If it's public television, then I agree that their tax goes up, not downsizing. What should be said about this proposal that is certainly well-intentioned, and there is no discussion at all, but it would violate the system, is the question of where to expand those activities or services or goods that would introduce a zero VAT rate? For example, why release VAT only equipment and goods for children if the purpose is a policy of art. Why, for example, not release pregnant dresses? And that's the most intelligent policy. When we release the pregnancy dresses, we'll also have the pregnancy kit. So there's no end to liberation if we want to drill value added tax. And second question, why help only children, and for example, not release VAT clothes for old, powerless, unemployed, socially endangered, etc.? As far as the paper is concerned, why release only daily newspapers. Tomorrow will come a proposal for weeks, then months, then yearbooks, quarterly editions, etc. As far as television is concerned, why not release the VAT and cable TV. It promotes democracy more because you can choose 10, 20, 30 programs, not just one that is not objective yet. In other words, if such a proposal is accepted then there will be a chain reaction, a series of requests for VAT release and there is no limit. This will lose the value added tax function. Once again in conclusion, we find it dangerous to drill a system like this in this way. That other measures should be put in place to support this positive purpose of the legislator. That other encouraging measures should be allowed to develop these areas that are listed here and leave value added tax in the current framework in order to continue to be as effective as possible, more transparently, so that further improvement can lead to an even higher collection rate of tax revenues. Therefore, on behalf of the Club, I conclude, I reject this approach to changing the value added tax system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37519	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37520	Mr Hebrang says that in order to comply with the European Union, it would not be possible to cut the tax on daily newspapers, or VAT on daily newspapers. And that explains why he doesn't like the HRT program or the newspaper. However, the government said in its opinion, I will quote: "From the proposed products and services referred to in points (i) to (n) of Article 10a) of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act, I would like to stress that "the newspaper is a product at which a reduced rate can be prescribed under certain provisions of Annex H6. So the government says in its opinion that daily newspapers can really have a lower rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37521	Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37522	Mr. President, a representative of the HDZ Club, Mr. Hebrang made some miraculous statements when it comes to media functions, arguing that newspapers do not develop democracy, and also that Croatian broadcasting is not a public institution. It is simply amazing that, after the experience we have only had with the whole media legislation, after interpreting a VAT-free tax, the government also allows itself in its own interpretation, re-opening this issue and charging VAT among other things and from television. Television among other things gives about 30 million kuna to the Media pluralism Fund because, among other things, their additional public commitment is regulated. This is absolutely, this is a falsification of the Law on Tax Laws and forgeries of the Law on Croatian Radio Television.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37523	Gentlemen, you're reporting for correction of an incorrect quote. Well, then correct the incorrect allegations, not the polymize with attitudes you disagree with. You're legislators, so use your rights as a proponent. Don't dispute through the controversy under the firm's correction of an incorrect allegation. And the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37524	At least two of Mr. Hebrang's claims are incorrect. First, that many associations, that many associations act profitablely. Associations are under the law of a non-profit organisation. If they act profitablely, they also break the law in the Law on Associations, that is enough reason for the government to abolish the activity of such associations. If some associations break the law in the government, it's to establish it. Another incorrect claim that the HRT tax is a service tax. Neither the Law on HRT nor the General Tax Code tax is a tax on service. And the tax does not pay VAT. So the claim that tax is a tax on service shows either that Mr Hebrang does not know the Law on HRT and the General Tax Law or that he knows them, which is more dangerous. But it's wrong, deliberately misreading them to put extra pressure on media freedom, especially HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37525	HNS club, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37526	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's just remember for a moment the fates of the VAT in this assembly of Parliament, that is, in this government rule. Fate is pathetic. On arrival, the government pledged its guarantee card to cut VAT without a bill. We have warned that it does not stand, that it will not be able to pass, that immediately after the arrival it will give up, again practically with a zero explanation, if the IMF pressure does not count under reason. But the law is what it is, we supported at the HNS Club of PGS an attempt to introduce zero rates on certain products and services of humanitarian character given by the Club of Libre, it was if you remember aids for the blind, computers for the blind, and humanitarian associations services. The government refused that, too. At that point, I must say, I was embarrassed to sit in this House who refuses to cancel the tax on aids for the blind. But we refused. It is no wonder, then, that the government refuses and this proposal, which, for example, destroys the system, which, unlike those before, is socially focused on not so much humanitarian focus. The justifications for rejecting this proposal are the European Union's views, but the question of whether the European Union itself is carrying out such attitudes as we are proposing to adopt, in a number of European countries there are zero value added tax rates for these service groups and products that are now being proposed here. On the other hand, tax policy in the country is a key policy in which the government draws out social, development and civilizational views. If these positions under pressure create someone else, then you have to ask yourself what this government really thinks about birth, and population policy, what it thinks about informing citizens, what it thinks about the safety of life in once-minded, and what it thinks about humanitarian work, and what it thinks about civil society and associations, NGOs operating in society, what it thinks about protecting people with disabilities and other issues raised by this law. It is true that these views of the government can be expressed differently using tax mechanisms. We also considered in the HNS today decentralisation and abandoning most of the tax cakes, tax revenues to local, regional self-government is the best solution. Because local and regional self-government are dealing with existential issues, and these are the issues here. Namely, the Constitution and all our laws have declared free elementary schooling, it is in the domain of local self-government. We don't need to ask if it's free definitely not, basic schooling costs and it costs expensive. The question arises whether we should have free textbooks according to Europe's directives, if we may not have them, why there are Zagreb, why there are no Gospićs, why there are no Karlovacs, why there are no Otokacs, I guess because there is not enough part of the tax cake left in those places to afford them local environments. We are talking about population policy on the most intelligent policy, let us ask ourselves what the capacity of kindergartens in Croatian cities is. ♫ Of the necessary, what is the price, who are the price for two, the three don't give God four children can afford, MPs, who else. It is these issues that are addressed at the level of local administrations and self-government as long as the income tax, most income tax is centralized here in Zagreb, in Upper Town, as long as things happen that way, these issues will not be resolved where people live and where they have difficulty living. We have suggested some time ago some changes precisely to the Tax on Profits Act so that this tax would actually stand out where it is being collected and where it actually is being realised, where citizens pay it, of course that Law is with an abomination rejected. However, although we believe that this is the way tax policy is created, it means to single out the largest part of the tax cake and leave it where the tax is collected the best tax policy, we support this proposal because it is socially sensitive and because it is civilizedly targeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37527	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37528	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club supports the SDP Club's proposal as part of the debate on the necessity of reforming the tax system. Namely, what our current tax system is neither developmental nor social and its fundamental purpose is to fill the state budget, and it is not going the way it should, because we ourselves are witnesses and we are aware of many discussions that show that we do not have the implementation system set up so that the state budget collects the funds that belong to it. It best illustrates the situation of oil derivatives smuggling and tobacco issues. You yourself know that the Minister of Finance has constantly warned about these problems, he warned while he was in opposition and he is talking about it today, but unfortunately we have not taken over or set up an effective system that would, on the one hand, enable the collection of all those budget revenues that are in force under the rules set out that the revenues of the state budget. It is also best to illustrate to you the fact that 70% of VAT is charged on customs, therefore, all of these are facts that indicate that we really need to implement a broader tax system reform so that on the one hand it can be developmental and social development in order to create new jobs, because without the creation of new jobs there is no raising of the standards of Croatian citizens, and the development needs to be in the sense of allowing exports and not imports, and we ourselves know what the situation with imports is, we only take the situation with imports of agricultural products, last year it was a billion and 400 million dollars, and this year it is this year's trend. And we are aware of the fact that by the end of last year something was achieved in the sense that the increased exports had reduced that imbalance, export-import and now we see that this situation is happening again that that rate is falling again. So we really need to be aware of the fact that we don't really have a system. A real tax system that would be effective, which would provide everything that needs to be secured because the fact that defenders told me in Slavonski Brod, says customs will punish an ordinary man who buys two cartons of cigarettes in a Bosnian ship, while boats to which tobacco is smuggled pass without a problem. Such a situation today with oil derivatives is always at a time when income should be much higher in the state budget, so during the summer months it even stagnates but falls. Therefore, the situation is that there is a large smuggling and that the tanks come out of Croatia only paper and that all these means oil derivatives remain in Croatia and are sold. Therefore, it is necessary to change the tax system and therefore support this debate. Normally, it's going to make a double difference, two goals are needed. First, we agree that for many areas of products and services should have a zero rate. We certainly support this proposal regarding demining operations, we know ourselves what our situation is, and speaking of demining operations, it is also necessary to pass the Law on humanitarian demining. You yourself know that last year has been promised to the pyrotechnics that this law will come on the agenda. Here, it's already close and half this year, the law is gone. We therefore warn the Government of the necessity and need to adopt a new Mine Action Act. Also related to clothing and shoes for children we think that we should even expand for children up to 15 years old and determine exactly what all this applies to, means clothes and shoes and that part that is necessary for schooling and all other things because it is the exact stimulant and stimulating and demographic restoration and everything else. So that's the part we support. We also support this part about people with disabilities and associations and examples of abuse cannot be in the function of this, but it is necessary to establish an effective mechanism of meaning within the Ministry of Finance. Whether it's going to be the Financial Police, the IRS, whether it's going to be the State Inspectorate, but we must finally put in order in all these areas. Because, if we continue to experience this situation, that oil and oil products smuggling is tobacco, that the state doesn't collect what needs to happen to us, and therefore, if we want to be the country of food exporters, then normally we have to make order and introduce among the rates related to agricultural products, we have a huge possibility of exporting the agricultural products of indigenous domestic food, and that's one of the forms where we can help our agriculture and not import everything from the outside. It is also important for the issue of tourism, we also know that our environment is related to Mediterranean countries that have a completely different approach to tourism from us and, above all, to this VAT issue. So there are a lot of these areas where we have to react and everything that time goes on we have fewer options of reacting and making the right solutions and the right solutions will be that we really have a tax system that is developmental and social, tax system that will allow for the creation of new jobs. And therefore, in such a tax system, we have to go to the point of creating a new job as little as possible and not according to current high taxes, contributions and other taxes that must be made within the state budget, and as long as the mechanisms are not put in place for the state to pick up what belongs to it and then for us to determine exactly what part of the budget will have that part of the development, in which part will have that social part. Because this is a stateless state, a system without a system. It's just a form of budget filling to fill the budget and the situation is unsustainable. Therefore, the HSP Club supports this proposal and let us agree to unite all these things we are talking about today in order to get an effective tax system and to take measures to create new jobs, to raise the standard of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37529	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37530	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I am correcting the false allegations of the respected representative Pera Kovacevic who said they support this proposal because he is in terms of the social budget. It's not social to introduce a zero rate because then the benefit of it is the one who reported 50 million kunas of income last year and the unemployed one. It is social to have the same rate to fill the budget and then the state in the form of giving gives to those who are unemployed and have fewer incomes. That's why the world is avoiding more and more zero rates because it's unsocial. That's what he's blaming it for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37531	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37532	Thank you, Mr. President. A esteemed colleague Kovacevic said this is a system without a system and de facto that we do not have a tax system. That's not true at all. Namely, he's chasing two things. On the one hand, the law as one that has its own rules that are well laid down by my assessment and, on the other hand, by control or enforcement. This government has already gone to the establishment of financial police and other institutions that should be involved in the implementation and possible smuggling of cigarettes, fuel, etc. It's already another area. Therefore, it is obvious that Mr Kovacevic confused the law as such on the one hand and its implementation on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37533	The club of representatives of DC-, HSLS, LS's respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37534	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The DC, HSLS and LS Club believes that these are not the only needs of our citizens to relieve and bring them as close as possible to our citizens. Dr Hebrang said a lot about what we would agree with, but this whole VAT problem should be accessed more fully and systematically, not in this way. Otherwise, in these solutions that are days with some, we could clearly agree on this. However, constant supplements are also needed. When we talk about a zero rate for children's food, clothing, etc., other needs the current social moment is such that those who are old should not be singled out, especially unemployed, ultimately these people who are a month and a few days here in St. Mark and Sljemen are looking for their rights, I think, too, in a way, they could be included in some way because they are socially endangered, powerless, unemployed, do not receive incomes and a number of other social categories of people with whom it would be clear if there were some general agreement they could accept. However, since this is also a matter that needs to be fully addressed clearly, it is not possible at this time. When it comes to the zero rate for the newspaper, I don't think we could agree on that either. Why? The daily newspapers have the entire Croatian market. If they're doing a good job, they're working, planning, I think they can get income when it comes to the paper. However, I do not think that people are reading the newspaper and that this is not the only reason for the lack or underdevelopment of our democracy as it stands here in reason because they do not read the newspaper. The papers are not read for content, often it, look at some research, and you will see that our citizens often have many content that are not satisfied in our daily press and are protesting in such a way as they have protested now and in these local elections where a very small number of people went to the vote. In terms of demining, we could really agree with this. Why? Because that part of the funds that could in some way save the non-payment of VAT could be given to technical improvements for the salaries of people, etc., improvement of the conditions. I don't think this is the only bad business, we have bad leadership, etc., that there are others, but maybe we should look for a solution really set aside for this issue, because a large part of Croatia will still live in fear of not finding the means to demining certain areas of Croatia. You saw now an example recently in the press of what people do to even fight and argue over Slavonia, people... Their own lives, they go into the fields, and they demine the locusts themselves, and then when land is given in a concession, there is a conflict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to associations, I don't think we could agree with this as long as there's a policy in the associations. I think that this item should be clearly specified and seen what humanitarian associations are, which are foundations with that purpose, which are those institutions, in which case, and as long as there is politics, the political parties, while they live in these associations in a fine way, I don't think we could agree with this, if we would accept that solution, then we would accept that from this VAT that saves are financed by political parties' activities through these associations. With this paragraph of the 5th zero rate on goods and services provided by the humanitarian organisation, the Croatian Red Cross, Caritas and others, there they could agree, however, should then separate it from this package. Also when it comes to the zero rate for importing cars, I think it's already largely regulated... an existing law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And our famous Croatian television and this request to free the payment of VAT and it must do something, give a gesture of goodwill, above all the costs of Croatian television that are... in many areas, but one part of the cost increases and because there is a large number of unemployed, a large number of employees in Croatian television and that is one big burden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that some rationality could be achieved from that base. And finally, when it's like this, when we're so kind to Croatian television, we should also be kind to small electronic, local media, so small television, small radio jobs that also pay the VAT, pay all the fees, nobody thinks of them. So here's why our club won't support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37535	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37536	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is yesterday, Prime Minister Sanader, in a major interview in the evening list, literally quoted me as saying: "... that we are also thinking about reducing the tax burden and the single tax rate that Slovakia has.". If I am not mistaken Slovakia means it has this unique income tax rate, on profit or VAT of 19%, it is clear that on the other hand Croatia cannot afford it unless it wants to go bankrupt. Because if it were possible, Croatia would have had a 20% VAT as early as 1.1.2005, but as it is known and despite HDZ's guarantee card, the promise dropped at the end of last year. So the real changes to the VAT Act are not the ones in the opinion of the IDS Club that introduce more releases, i.e. Payment of VAT at zero rate, although we in the IDS support this SDP proposal, we consider it to be the introduction of 2, 3, or, 2 or 3 so on. Differentiated rates, i.e. we suggest that there be a general rate of 22% tourist, catering 11%, or social 5%. It is also true that Western European countries generally avoid a zero rate, but that is why all Western Europeans, or almost all of them have 2, 3 and even four differentiated rates, starting from 2, or 5 or 7, percentage points to 17 or 19, while there, a growing zero rate becomes an exception. Because the logic is that everyone pays taxes. Even though I said IDS doesn't mind a zero rate. But this increasingly becomes a Croatian innovation that only leads to the avoidance of tax payments. Another real change when this VAT law is on Wednesday should be considered about the reduction of VAT from 22% to 20%, but it is 3 billion kuna and it is difficult to assume that, in due course, one Croatian government will reach for such a tax measure. But what's most important when VAT is on Wednesday is that VAT is paid not by invoiced goods but by charged goods, everything else is simple cosmetics. I can understand that a child needs at least three pairs of shoes in a year or two shoes and that is, say, a minimum of 1000 kuna, which will say that at these 1000 kuna VAT is 220 kuna or the value of one shoe or shoe. And you should take care of that anyway. But the real tax change would be paying not by invoiced but by charged goods. And that's the point. Clearly, on the other hand, one such change would likely lead to the collapse of public finances in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we will all agree that our country is poor, that from day to day it becomes more and more in charge, not to say that we are over-indebted, we are burdened with this external and internal debt, the growing problem is becoming indifference, and we must simply acknowledge ourselves that Croatia has no problem with tax rates at the moment, but with the fact that we do not have relevant investments in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's actually the point of the IDS Club. Tax profits, say 20%, or in mountainous mountain areas such as Buzet,... etc., the 15% mountain cotter is not a problem, everyone avoids paying it anyway, by reinvesting in the company is already the problem that in Croatia, gentlemen, no one is investing at this point, and that is as if we are not aware in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Slovakia, say, the profit tax is 19%, in Croatia 20%, and nobody pays it there, under quotes "no one pays", but in Slovakia we have a whole series of big worlds, e.g. Car factory from one Peugeot, Toyota, etc., and in Croatia we don't really have a relevant foreign investor until today, and that's the point. So it's not so much tax policy that matters, but simply an investment climate and we're in this country against everything and against foreign capital and against Europe, we're against selling under quotes to the "moral imperialist" and one centimetre of the Holy One of Croatia's countries, we're probably the most complicated country in the world, and clearly that the capital avoids us, but logic is simple or the capital in the Republic of Croatia, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will go for capital in the world. There is a clear and third solution to live from today to tomorrow and to clearly devastate. Slovakia has three other advantages probably ahead of Croatia, first of all having this consensus on foreign investors, we in this country have only reached consensus on the European Union, they are in the European Union and have a relatively favourable labour price. Croatia must have what Slovakia has except for the clear that it must not be brought down to their labour price. As far as the law itself is concerned, this article 2. And like I said, IDS is for these changes. ... We'll vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What did I say? The IDS is about that bill. [[The intruders don't understand.]] We'll vote on that bill. It clearly doesn't stand anywhere around here how much this would cut the budget and how it would be possible to compensate for that loss, but I said we'd vote for that bill. It's about getting rid of newspapers, clothes, children's shoes up to 7 years old and a TV subscription. I'm aware that when we're with children or when it comes to children, we're all sensitive. They have, they have to have just everything or they have to have everything, but that's where we propose as IDS and a zero rate on computer technology. However, I doubt that this last one will go as I also doubt that it will eventually get a confirmed, necessary majority and this legislative proposal. All in all, we need to be socially sensitive. We welcome this, but it is also difficult for palitative measures to count on, that it will be possible to launch the Republic of Croatia. So I said IDS is for this law as we were for reducing VAT from 22 to 20%. Unfortunately, I said we're afraid it won't end in the end. Therefore, it would be best to consider introducing two or three VAT rates. I already said social, let's say from 5% to all the food, tourist and catering 11%, and then to keep it for the other products at a general rate of 22%. So a social one that would include all the food, so it would go significantly to the benefit of the citizens, which would also compensate under quotes for erasing these zero rates. Why? Because the average family in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps 60, 70, some and more simply single out for food. All in all, we welcome this bill. We'll vote for, and if you'll gather most see... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37537	Thank you very much. We've got two corrections, so the proposer's representative will. First, the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37538	Thank you very much. The Honored representative made an incorrect statement that the HDZ promised a reduction in value added tax in the pre-election campaign in the guarantee card. We have promised to cut taxes and taxes in the guarantee card as early as the first year of the government's mandate. Profit tax. And by the end of the term, of course, there will be other taxes. So the first point of the guarantee card has already been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37539	Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37540	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Cain said, "It is not as important to change the tax policy as new investment is necessary." So there are no new investment investments without a change in tax policy to make investments. It's the law of a pooled vessel, Mr. Cain. ... Maybe in Istria, but there's nowhere else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37541	But he thinks he can. So the correction is whether or not, and Mr. Cain explained why he thinks so. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37542	Mr. Vice President, otherwise we thought, dear colleagues and colleagues we thought we'd come by after all the clubs were speaking but there were some questions open that simply for the sake of the quality of the debate further need to be answered. And this one, too, is a question of suspicion that they will pass this bill, or I don't know, that zero rates are avoided in the countries of the European Union, and so on and so forth, that a change like this would lead to budget failures, both in order and so on. You know respected colleagues and colleagues. No matter what you think in this country in the economic and social part, something urgent has to be done. And in this respect it is quite clear that there must be reform and investment policy and banking-credit policy and the tax system as well as, of course, a legislative part that is related to an equal position on the market or better put forward for the equal regulation of opportunities on the market for a simple reason to create conditions for fostering economic growth and development. The fact is that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has exceeded $30 billion. The fact is that internal debt has already crossed 11 billion kunas and is constantly growing. The fact is that in Croatia over 330 thousand unemployed... The fact is that we have less and less foreign investment in our country in the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The fact is that the rate of growth is somewhere around 3.5% and that it has been falling slightly compared to the previous growth rates and that the growth rate relative to the countries in the environment is the lowest. The fact is also in the Republic of Croatia that despite the constant growth in tax revenues, you have a steady increase in expenditure growth. It is a fact that respected colleagues and colleagues that although our exports have slowly begun to be scolded is actually far, far below the production needs, asorts and goods that have been produced and that unfortunately more and more products are being produced for the warehouse and less and less for the market because the purchasing power in the country is becoming weaker and weaker, and simply thanks to this economic policy it is not worth exporting from the country. The fact is that indifference is on the rise. The fact is also that one of the biggest, biggest Halls has started to appear again in Croatia that one large part of the people is working again and does not receive salaries. It's an alarming condition to which he must react urgently and quickly. It must not be prolonged, and it must not be put into a dangerous situation. And let me warn you. It is not a problem whether they are going to break the system due to a small change and addition of the Tax System Act. Far and far one of the greatest dangers that can happen, as theorists say, is the issue of enlargement, in fact, of public and common consumption. And that happens all the time because unfortunately, we have a distribution economy where the state gives, and in fact it doesn't know who it's going to take it from, given that it's not able to produce. And in such a situation where consumption is constantly growing, you simply cannot keep up with budget revenues because the growing and greater number of people, or better said users, are getting used to looking for something in this country instead of creating and contributing to the fact that the country's common general needs are rationally and quality-funded. And it's not possible to justify things like this. And otherwise, the attempt to justify you know the fact by which they are either the result of ignorance or are the result I don't know what. Let me just say it's not exactly the thesis that's exposed. For example, around the rate, and around zero feet. For example, the rate between the rate and the zero rate with the general rate of course has Belgium, Denmark then Estonia, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Malta, one Poland, rich Sweden, Hungary, Great Britain, Cyprus and so on from the Western European countries. And if you took those that have more intersteps then or, or one or more steps, then only one of them actually doesn't have that. Denmark. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues if we want to compare ourselves with those we want to go to, then let us ask the question why they applied such a tax system in value added tax compared to the time they started to apply it. Well, because they, or the whole of Europe, at the time when it began to apply among the rates, zero rates stemmed from not only recession but from World War II's war-torn destruction. And rebuilding the country, restoring the economy and, of course, creating conditions to create equal legal positions and opportunities for the equal development of certain economic activities. Because simply because of economic cycles, the legality of the market for certain activities is not equal and equal on the market in relation to everything else because of the turnover of capital, the value of investment or of labour or capital input, etc. etc. Second, or third, I must also say on behalf of the promoter. You know, giving up on these measures in a situation where it's far above one-third, when it's almost happened that 40% of the total income is spent on an existential minimum or a basket, then in such a situation the question remains and what remains of these means of raising and education of children, for I don't know the question of children's shoes, clothes, etc., for humanitarian aid, for the issue of daily press, for the question of all these things that we have listed here, and among other things, we are again undermining the absurd to charge on donated funds that are intended for demining or for donated humanitarian aid we need to charge taxes like... It just can't be in the system. [[You don't understand.]] It's a question of an eclectic form of injustice, and it needs to be resolved. It is impossible for the humanitarian organisation to make a request to both citizens or to propose to citizens to help the most socially needed. Citizens also give money when they buy funds for the most socially needed so that the state shows up and collects taxes. Well, that doesn't make sense! A colleague doesn't make sense! The state here simply loses the racio... and in such a situation we must react to such things and we must see what to do with the tax on additional value and not just with the tax on additional value. [[You don't understand.]] We need to see what we will do with the tax system and a pair of tax systems such as contributions etc. to actually disburse the gross labour price, not the wages, but the gross labour price to actually open an additional one, create an additional instrument for economic growth and development. But not in the way that the International Monetary Fund announces to us, given the situation that I don't know the social situation is something greater or not more than significantly greater than it is, for example, present in the countries of the Western European Union. In such a situation, social contributions should be immediately cut, pension funds should be cut, investment funds should be cut, all investment income and conversion revenues, etc. It should also be put in place as some additional instrument for public debt repayment, etc. My colleagues, then where is growth and development? Does this mean that Croatia should run a policy that actually eats its own substance and bites itself from the inside. We just need to see where we're going next. And it's a very, very serious topic that's opened. I thank my colleagues for opening these questions in their opening section, but I had to present on behalf of the promoter these data which are exact, related and between the rates, related to zero rates, as I had to warn what the profession warned. However, colleagues, it is not a problem how to plan the budget, but rather the problem that happens to us year after year that we are constantly and constantly increasing our general and joint spending above budget-planned resources and, of course, you cannot keep track of tax revenues. Otherwise, it would be normal to expect not only to reduce taxes and tax revenues, but to have significant sex since they are several percentage points higher in this year than they have been in the past. After all, I mentioned this, I will mention again that the tax on total income, income tax, income tax and property is higher by 7.2% of VAT 5.75% this year, that VAT tax and social segregation is more than 1/3 of total tax revenues. It is, but fellow dear, which is worth a steady increase when at the same time social issues are constantly growing, i.e. issues for general and joint spending financed by the state. Therefore, we must simply open up space to create chances of developing an economic and social system, but not with state interventionism. State interventionism should be where there are social needs, where undeveloped areas and areas are and where there are such damages due to war and war destruction that aid and incentives by the state, rather than in the whole area, need to be introduced. We must simply turn into an economic and social policy or else we will end up in a very, very difficult economic and social situation and regardless of who will be in power will be very difficult to address the economic and social issues that will then be introduced. If they cannot be resolved, they can introduce the country to a permanent degree of instability and uncertainty in terms of expectations and the worst of citizens' needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37543	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37544	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Is the Croatian tax system successful, is it transparent, stable and enforceable? These are the most important elements on the basis of which it can be determined whether the tax system of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the tasks that the tax system should have. And two are the basic, basic and main tasks of each tax system in one country. First of all, it is understandable and fair for taxpayers, understandably and justly. The second is that it is stimulating for production, because definitely the tax system as part of fiscal measures is definitely affecting macroeconomic economic policy, the development of economic transport within the country. It is definitely part of the content that can be called the most basic elements for those functions that citizens call the existence that the economy calls the possibility of economic development and the function that every public society should have organised, which is the basic functions of the state. The colleagues spoke of the principle of justice as that element that should be a measure of whether a better value added tax is only one rate, or if it is less just if we have more rates. The practice of modern countries faces various variations and various forms within which the tax system is regulated. Justice in the principle of one rate is relative, as is relative to the principle of a higher rate. It simply depends on the position of the citizen. A citizen who has the possibility of existence, who has a secure workplace, who has a regulated living space he will find his righteousness in both systems. But what needs and what is important and what should be directed at fiscal policy and tax system is exactly the attitude towards production, towards the organisation of its own economy. I, for example, will contribute to the fact that I am a value added tax cannot be the only and main generator of what is often achieved with changes in the VAT system, show on a very picturesque example that has its positive atmosphere and a positive reason for adoption, which is by introducing a zero VAT rate on tourism services, thinking about those that are invoiced and paid from abroad. One measure which had its good reason, which had the goal of raising the tourism market after years of war, after the inability to place tourism on healthy feet, to master the potential that it had and to accept the total demand imposed on it was the rate, the zero VAT rate that was supposed to be stimulating, but not stimulating only for one side, not stimulating only to offset the difference between income and expenditure, it had to generate certain, positive movements and precisely in the area of production. Why? Because other measures had to have an absolute impact on tourism as a market absorbing as many domestic products as possible, that tourism would serve as a market to be placed on from at least $3 billion satellites and that other fiscal policy measures would try to establish a relationship between production on the one hand and consumption within the tourism market on the other hand. If these measures would not result but would remain a dominant way of supplying the tourism market, then, of course, the function of the target was not achieved because the growth of imports is a growth of new debt, import growth is a reduction of jobs and a decline in domestic production. Therefore, measures in the economic policy system must be interdependent. And a month ago when we proposed on behalf of the HSS Club the proposal for a law on the promotion of tourism services through the strengthening of the production component, when we discussed the measures to strengthen and strengthen the manufacturing sector precisely for the sake of competitiveness on the tourism market, then the government had a negative view by saying that these are not measures that are in line with the European Union directives. I also said then that this proposal, that such a proposal for legislation and measures, was simply copied from the European legislation of Spain and Greece. They are therefore actively applicable today in the Member States of the European Union. We have said that there are no elements for this, and with these measures we could now agree on VAT policy, tax reform policy and efficiency that would leave the overall tax system to produce and strengthen domestic products, and thus increase employment, reduce foreign borrowing and create its own domestic economic system. Therefore, no measure can act on its own, and it cannot solve in itself a very difficult situation in the Croatian economy and especially in Croatian production. And that's why it's absolutely good to discuss this today, to point out the reasons why we're here today and why we haven't moved and why the tax system doesn't give those expectations that are expected of it. And that is to be stimulating for production, to be fair to taxpayers, but also to be understandable to taxpayers, because it is often and incomprehensible, it is often difficult for citizens to find knowledge, time to respond to those demands that the complicated tax system represents for them. And that's why reforming the tax system is something we've been talking about for years. And all measures have one character in repairing something that is not clear enough and quality enough in nature. And that's why we often spin around in a circle where we try to make big changes with small fire measures. Of course that's not possible. And that is why the debate on the tax system is something that I am trying in some way to put in the context of this bill proposal by the SDP Club which is absolutely commendable and absolutely what should be an additional, additional incentive for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to try, as soon as possible, in its proposals of the law and in the acts to put such legal proposals on track and understandability, justice and to stimulate, what is most important and that is production. And to return to only one sentence of how we still function today. This proposal for a law on the promotion of domestic production which is discussed here in the Assembly, which we discussed in terms of supporting such a way of creating conditions. Despite being rejected, I must inform you that the meaning of this law has been fully transposed in terms of instruments and measures within the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Although this happened, and it happened that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has agreed to loans for, which it gives for the preparation of the season for entrepreneurs, condition that this must be spent on the purchase and negotiation of domestic food. Although this has happened, it only says that good solutions that can be presented in this House can be served, so if they have served this way that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is instead of stimulating other people's production, to finance other people's goods and services, to support domestic producers, to obtain domestic goods, domestic food, and that is a lot and therefore I think we have done a lot. But I believe that as soon as possible, the government will also try and offer those solutions within the framework of legal solutions that will be to strengthen domestic production and create that core that will create new jobs, reduce exposure to external debt, and will primarily provide citizens with what they need most and that is a just system that needs to ensure that everyone can have quality life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37545	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Oh, I'm not gonna be here right now about the history of VAT and what's going on with that VAT, which is whether or not it's on the warranty card. It doesn't matter what it says on the warranty card. The fact is that Dr Sanader announced a spectacular VAT reduction at the last pre-election event in the city of Zagreb two days before the elections. This may have been analyzed for decades by politologists as a classic eclectic example of voter fraud by making false promises. So I promise something, people believe me, they believe it's really true, I'm a serious man to keep it, and then I don't keep it. Why did I promise? To get votes. That's why he'd come to power. We're going to law school. We were here yesterday, the day before yesterday, when, the other day, we were talking about an extra for the kids. According to the government's proposal, the number of children's extras has increased, it has spread to foreigners, some 7,000 foreigners so it will get the right to receive extras for children. It's about 200 kuna, as many as it is, and it was then pointed out as an excellent example of encouraging the country's demographic restoration. None of the demographic benefits of this will be clear to all, but it may be, demographic restoration can be triggered in some other ways, for example, to accept this proposal. Why? Well, because that's where the zero rate is proposed for these kids up to seven years of age. This will help parents to buy more clothes or to buy clothes at all. To buy baby food. To buy everything a child needs for up to seven years. Well, if we're really gonna help those kids, then we're gonna accept that, and if we don't, then we're gonna find excuses why we won't. It is now an opportunity for the parliamentary majority to vote. It's interesting how dr. Hebrang, and then completely original after him and Mr. Piploic says why this cannot be accepted. Because he says if we take it for the kids now, then we'd have to do the pregnant dresses, and then if we take it for the pregnant dresses, then the old and the powerless ones will come forward, and then we'll have to do it for them. So, so we don't get to see pregnant women with their dresses, old and powerless with our demands, let's not give them kids either. Very convenient logic. Let's not give it to anyone, so let's keep the parents thinking they're gonna buy the kids shoes and at what cost and whether they're gonna pay the VAT or not. It reminds me a little of those Zenolov's apores he was interpreting... the thought is yes, quick Achilles not only can't reach the slow turtle but it can't reach the turtle standing, because to get to the turtle it has to come halfway, so it has to cross the first half, so half of that half can't even go. Now, that's dr. Hebrang and Mr. Pipolovic. Let's not do anything. When it comes to demining, we have some plans to end this demining in 2010. We have plans, and we all know it won't end. It won't end because there's not enough money, so demining is very easy to solve. It's like artificial fertilizer to you, as much as you throw away artificial fertilizer, so much corn will come out. The more invested in demining, the more demining will be done. That's very clear. That demining doesn't work right, that's what we're all witnesses to. "Mungos" striked, they didn't get paid. One unsettled system. Why didn't they win, so it's a state firm. Who's obliged to secure their salaries? The government is obliged to secure their salaries. She didn't provide them with any pay, so they were strikers. Em's doing this dangerous job, and they haven't even paid for it yet. Well, now it's just a matter of whether we want this demining to end in 2010 or not. This removal of VAT on demining operations, so it's a temporary measure. Well, that would certainly only take long enough for the demining to end. So is it in our best interests now that this demining ends as soon as possible or not? Well, if it is, then let's vote this. So who's stopping us from saying this, to help this demining end as soon as possible, and that people don't get hurt in those minefields. Associations. The removal of VAT for associations, not for associations, for donations from abroad for associations. For donations from abroad. So who doesn't have enough of what he's given right now, and now he still needs the state to take 22% of the tax, so he also gave it up for humanitarian activity. What do we care? We don't care what helps us, he needs to be punished by VAT by helping us. Beautiful. We can expect more and more outside help. With that logic, people on the outside will really try to help us, when it's not enough to help us, but we're also punishing them for helping us. And now what is proposed? Well, it's proposed to end that narcissism. The fact that the state still takes 22% of what someone's helping us with. And there's also an interesting logic Dr. Hebrang who says, not so you shouldn't accept it now because associations, some of them seem profitable. Oh, please, so the associations are nonprofits under the letter of the law. And if someone's breaking the law, Hebrang, you've been Vice-President of the Government for the Economy, so why don't you shut down the work of such an association and say which associations seem profitable. And Mr. Piploic says some of them are involved in politics, so they need to be charged VAT. So what does that have to do with each other? What does that have to do with each other? And then tell me who they are, who don't do it by the law? Then why didn't you stop them? 'Cause that's about the same skillful thing. Just as we suggested that VAT be abolished for a blind person's aid. So as if someone said listen, we're not going to cancel the VAT for the blind because some of them see, they're pretending to be blind. I mean, that's really incomprehensible to me. To accuse someone of being profitable, to break the law, not to say who it is and now to punish everyone else for such a single claim with nothing proven. I haven't proven anything. HRT is a special story, but here I think this is completely unnecessary in law. It's completely unnecessary. Why is it unnecessary? Because it's settled. This was settled through two laws, the General Tax Law, which says that in taxes, VAT and HRT laws are not paid in such cases, which says that what was previously called a subscription is called a tax. Therefore, it is a tax which does not pay VAT and is so now and in practice. That's how it is now. Therefore, the incorrect government argues, quite incorrectly, that a reduction in the revenues of the state budget would occur by exempting VAT from the tax on Croatian broadcasting. I don't know where you get that when you and now the state budget don't charge VAT on tax. But the introduction of a VAT fee has one conjecture, which is the full financial subordination of HRT. That's what we had, so it was during the Minister of Skegra who charged VAT, so when HRT fell into financial dependence on the government, then Minister Shkegro graciously forgave the payment of VAT but HRT had to knock on the government door, ask them to forgive the VAT so that they could close the year financially. That's what you want again. I read that, conquer the financial HRT. And whoever's financially dependent, that software won't be independent, I guarantee you. Whoever's gonna have to come to the government for money won't be working an independent program. And if that's exactly what you're looking for, that's what dr. Hebrang who resents HRT for not making some shows or making Dr. Hebrang obviously wants to edit HRT. Obviously! Well, now that he can't edit HRT from this position, the only way he'll be able to do that is if you bring the VAT into the subscription, financially subdue the HRT and then Dr. Hebrang as long as he's in power, he can do whatever he wants with HRT, and that's exactly what he wants to do. I raise my voice against it, loudly, resolutely. Now two more sentences. They say the promoters did not take care of how this proposal will reflect on the budget, i.e. it cannot be considered as being better taxed by curbing the grey economy. Okay, okay, well, that's what Shuker promised. It has promised for four years that he, as finance minister, would make a better charge of taxes and a better charge of excise duties. We're counting on Shucker's ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37547	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mrs. Bozica Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37548	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to replicate my fellow Stazic. He said in his debate that at the last HDZ meeting in the City of Zagreb, Prime Minister Sanader pledged to cut VAT on the guarantee card. And look, Mr. Stazic, you should still be more just and not cloud the public, cloud the Croatian public. Well, we remember very well when we were bringing in the first budget and Sanader's government took over that you left seven and a half billion dollars in debt through various ministries. You need to tell the truth and come from the truth, and today you are broadly promising all social layers help and easier life. However, in the four years of your term, you have shown very well how you led the state and what a social picture it was and what a social picture Sanader's government inherited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37549	... Answer, Mr. Nenad Stazic. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37550	I'm surprised you don't know what the party president promised at the last pre-election meeting. I wasn't there, but I saw it on TV. We'll cut the VAT he said. You've been saying this over and over for a year and a half about some of the debts left by Racan's government. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, you've increased those debts over the past year and a half. The general debt of the state is greater. This is the result of HDZ rule over the last year and a half. And now, watch out, you can talk about these debts to the imaginary Racan government by the end of your term. You can, whoever wants to listen to you. But Sanader's promise to cut VAT, he promised. He promised. Did he do it? He didn't do it. Ma'am, will it come true? It won't come true. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37551	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The tendency to remember just one thing, forgets another seems to be there. It's a general phenomenon. Thank you very much. Here, we also have two corrections to the incorrect quote. Andrew Hebrang. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As usual, Mr. Stazic's statements are inaccurate so how much time does it allow me to correct, and you stop me when it's too late. First, they said they proposed VAT to reduce the VAT rate to demining as a temporary measure. That's not true. That doesn't say in the bill that it's a temporary measure. Second, it says, the laws are either restricted or not limited. Secondly, that I want to financially knock down Croatia's broadcasting. It's not on my mind, I'd just like to have Croatian broadcasting with my and our money lords based on the law. I said in my statement, it's illegal. He says Hebrang wants to edit Croatian broadcasting. I don't think so, but Mr. Stazic, the parliamentary representative has the right to express his opinion. I'm sorry you don't like that system, but we fought for it, so we have it, so I'm expressing my opinion, not a desire for editorial policy. And in the end, Shuker promised and said he'd increase the tax pay. He did it. The charge is 5% better than in the previous term. Thank you. I've got more, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37553	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow Stazic who said that I said in his exposure that they were involved in politics. On the contrary, I didn't say that. I said that the parties, the political parties, moved into associations through their individuals and thus realized part of their programme. It is their right, but it is my right to tell the Croatian Parliament then that I have experienced it, seen how political parties do it and that would mean that if we free them from these VAT associations it would mean that we will finance political parties. The moment the political parties move out of the association, then I raise both my hands for your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37555	Thank you very much. It's been a long time since, at 11.03 p.m. in 10 minutes of application under Article 207 for discussion. Let's move on. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And as our colleague Stazic said, Prime Minister Sanader pledged to cut taxes and this type of tax, however, none. He gave and there was a guarantee card. Every citizen of ours knows it's already become a completely worthless currency. But here, we hear recently Prime Minister Sanader who promised, I don't know what he promised, he certainly said "you have my word". So for a year and a half from word to word, just words. Well, there's no worse torture than torture words, but no acts. However, just by acting in the right direction, i.e. by misacting and suspending a whole series of good and programming solutions and individual measures introduced by the former government, this has led to alarming information as well as reports the union. That no longer even the average income of an average citizen can be paid to 60% of the consumer basket, which includes neither housing nor education. Just a few months ago, that's what the unions are warning about. So, after a year and a half of this power, something that didn't go to the polls, but nothing that was promised was done. In fact, the government is completely indifferent to this proposal. Nowhere about children, needs but very cold, administrative Annex H 6 guidelines, 113 AQ 6 guidelines, etc. That's how the government refers to the guidelines. And how many guidelines are there that the government is deafening, which would be very useful to our citizens. These guidelines are not taken into account. And by the way, and it's totally wrong of this bill to apply. This bill of law is going precisely at this moment of an ever-increasing fall in standards, increasing threats, increasing decomposition, increasing numbers of poor and increasing numbers of rich people. At this point, then, when we need that, that justice so much, so much. And in the end, to the extent that the constitutionality is achieved. There are a whole series of provisions in the Constitution that concern exactly the protection of the family and of their own children. About the care, about education, about the responsibility of parents, about the particular care of the country, the protection of the country, etc., etc. However, there is no answer to that, in the government's opinion. You see, now soon, IMF representatives will visit our government to see what they do in pension and health, pension and health reforms. Or whether she cut what we had already pointed out so many times, she secretly concluded a "stand by" arrangement with the International Monetary Fund last August. However, they were so kind that they did not come, yet they were asked not to come just ahead, now already past the local elections. That you don't disturb something that is said differently in the elections and in the elections every time, and it seems like something else. As my colleague Arlovic warned me at all, I do not mind this policy of total liberalisation without any social sensitivity. It's HDZ policy. And? However, we have the right to criticise such a policy, but what is unacceptable is hypocrisy. To say one thing and to do something else entirely. It doesn't suit anyone, no matter what policy they represent. A good part of the government is crying over the fate of children, showing extreme concern, and as the first rule of the medical profession,... So first, don't hurt her, then do something, so the state for the first hand would be enough against the family, versus the children, not to take them away, and then not to give. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here's the state likes Christmas holidays, sometimes some convenient dates when, with light cameras, some members of the government walk into a scavenger, into a humble home where many children live and carry baskets of fruit, sweets, and thus play the soul care provider. And here when we need something real as systematic as we do and just and useful then we reject it in directions H16, 131Q. You see, the government said in its opinion that if these children's products were released from VAT, that the question would be that, that this could not be compensated at all, by reducing revenues in the state budget, although the state, even though the government has installed the financial police and already spent 20 million kuna for it, instead of investing only 1/3 in our tax administrations, an existing system to strengthen the effect of or the effectiveness of tax collection as the laws and provide. This is how the state was terrified of its own children because there's a pus tax, on milk diapers, could endanger the state, the state budget. So what kind of state is this, a country that keeps swearing to children, who rightly emphasizes but only declares that we are getting smaller every year, which is why the coalition government was even accused, that during the coalition government, it has now fallen at an even higher rate, and we are indeed one of the few countries in Europe that has not doubled its population in the last 100 years. The government is late and will not or will not know, which is why it is inexplicable not to refer to the legal procedure of the Medical Aided Insemination Act. So, the white plague is in action, and if really something effective is then it's to release these children's supplies from such an imposition. First of all, the Government is right, a state with the right to account, and it is not correct to the emotions of parents, that the parent will give up all those most necessary needs of its own to ensure decent supplies and all that the child requires. Unfortunately, even this huge love won't be enough anymore, because the growing number of parents or mothers whose employers don't pay their wages, we never ended up being realistic, but what's happening in the last year is really alarming. Compared to the VAT exemption at the Croatian Radio Television tax, the government also leaves the view that this is not possible as if it does not know the General Tax Code. This law does not install this right but only explains some of the dubiosiss in which the government has just done, a particular ministry acted against Croatian broadcasting by imposing an impose on it that is not mandatory under the existing law. It was really interesting here, I guess it goes in favor of freedom of the media, that some release of newspapers, and also with it in terms of fees, when they don't write at all, people don't like it at all, I don't think those who talk about it in such a way, but it doesn't matter if we like it, so nobody likes it, so it's not like the media writing or television showing something that we like or don't like. But it's a good idea of freedom, and your own freedoms, I guess, then other people's freedoms and then freedom of the media. But that's what we're gonna have to take care of. Here I'm saying here comes the IMF and foreign investors also, react quickly and promptly because it's expensive to pay them a fee, we've recently been cutting back in a segment even though 50% has been reduced during a coalition government because one particular service costs 47 kuna, it's a foreign investor with foreign capital that is going to invest too much here, and for this country too, it's afraid of children to be free of the basic supplies that each child needs. Therefore, there is no speech about reforms, about reforming the tax system, we will see now that the IMF comes to act only a protureforming blow, but you must remember, that Croatian people, Croatian citizens, have a tradition of social rights and that they will not just go deaf on all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37557	Madam MPs, you've been well past these ten minutes, and you're not looking into the light, you're just looking everywhere just not there. We have one replica and two corrections to an incorrect quote. It's quite a replica, Mr. Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37558	Mr. President, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I need to rephrase Commissioner Marinovic for her statement on President Sanader's promise to cut the VAT rate during the 2003 campaign. Yes the truth is, our President of the current government Mr. Sanader has promised it, however, given the circumstances, there was even an attempt to implement it, but given the circumstances and the state of our state budget, the implementation of that promise was delayed for something later, and I am convinced that he will do so. However, what I want to look back on is the presentation of Mrs. Marinović where you want to force your opinion here that you are taking care of the social status of citizens, etc., it is fair to say this is one of the most ordinary political laws that should have come into the procedure before the local elections, that you have opportunities here in the Croatian Parliament to present your great concerns about citizens and the social situation. That's the real reason. You are simply entertaining us and you, Mrs. Marinović, with topics and laws that have no chance of passing in the Croatian Assembly with every representative who is well-intentioned in this country and this people. This law of yours is one of the most ordinary political laws that will only waste time in our debate, and we cannot discuss those solutions and those laws that we need in this assembly for the sake of time. And to tell you the truth, I've spoken to one of your distinguished members of your party, and I'm going to end right now, who told me just like this. Wider if I were a minister, I would never accept it, too, according to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37559	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37560	You're saying this is a waste of time, and I'm asking you, what would we be discussing today if there were no opposition laws here? Nothing. In 2003, we concluded with the adoption of 73 laws marked E.P.Z.E. And last year at 32. And this year, I guess we'll keep going at that pace. And you say Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister Sanader tried, but there he was, because there was a gentleman from the IMF who told us that we were really, that you were much better because they agreed with you in 15 minutes and that the negotiations lasted days with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37561	Thank you very much. We also have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37562	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct Mrs. Marinovic's incorrect allegations that the government has indifferently rejected the proposal for this VAT reduction bill for certain categories. It is true that the government is fighting the accumulated debt from your government as well as spending the state budget without control and justification acting like drunken billionaires sharing between friends and godfathers as well as buying coalition peace. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37563	It's a general opinion and somehow there's nothing to correct the incorrect assumption, but let's move on. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Antičević, the repeated untruth you present unfortunately has the effect of the truth. So I must correct your wrong, your guilty claim regarding the tax or the Prime Minister's promise to cut the tax. It's true that in... The card stands and the prime minister has already reduced the profit tax by 5% in the first year, and as you repeatedly misquote and interpret the prime minister's guarantee card, I will really increase, frame and give it to your club so you don't do it anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37565	Thank you very much. Gifts, even so, are a positive thing. Let's move on. It's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn. Here you go, ma'am!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37566	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Now, as one of the legislators of this law, I would like to appeal to the introduction of my presentation on the 51st article of our Constitution which says that everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public incomes in accordance with their economic opportunities and that the tax system must be based on the principles of equality and justice. But I would say that all countries, including Croatia, are also implementing part of social policy through its tax system. This is also visible through our income tax laws, where we are currently running various benefits both part of social policy and through the tax system. However, it is possible to manage both part of the tax policy and through the value added tax system in a way that is introduced for certain categories of products and services inter-steps, or to introduce a zero rate or VAT exemption because other countries do so. They did so when they introduced such a system of consumption taxes and most of them are presently present in the European Union. The European Union wishes to have a single tax system and therefore introduces certain guidelines to guide the EU countries to have a common or uniform tax system. We are not a member of the European Union, we will only become a few years from now and we have only applied value added tax since 98, so some seven years. It should be remembered that in that first year of application of value added tax, we had a high budget surplus. In 98, at the end of the year, we had a budget rebalance of more than 8 billion kuna. So, if we keep looking at the value added tax, it grows every year above the growth of the gross social product and what it shows us. This shows that our citizens live on credit, take credit so that they can settle their basic needs or buy lasting goods. And what we're proposing here is to expand products and services that won't have a value added tax bill. We are talking about clothing and clothing for children up to seven years old, children's food, hygiene supplies for children, help to raise and educate children. What does that mean? This means that we are trying to help families who have young children so that they can buy something more or increase their purchasing power. If the child's allowance is less than 300 kuna and let's say we ask ourselves what it would mean for our child's mother's worker for up to seven years working in the textile industry and a store that can make a maximum profit per month of 1,000 and 800 kuna when we know that in the retail price of such products VAT participates with 18%. What would that mean for demining if the 18% in the final price would decrease the demining price? What would that mean for associations that help socially endangered individuals and families if such assistance cost less by 18%? So by 18% we would increase the possibility of such individuals increasing their purchasing power. But there's no hearing about it. As far as the fee to HRT is concerned, we just wanted it to be said in this particular law that it is not a service, that it is a tax, a tax or what we will call it, that it is actually a kind of tax and that because it does not say it in the law on value added tax, that there is no possibility that it can be manipulated and blackmailed by this institution whether it will pay or not, in some period, pay this tax simply because the current authority likes or does not like their editorial policy. And when the Government tells us so that it is rejected, that it is not in line with the European Union guidelines, which we are not a member of, and for a few more years we will not be a member, then it is necessary and logical that we speak as we speak. We say it was in the 2003 election campaign that tax cuts will be said. To a small extent, tax payments on a part of the income tax have been reduced as the base tax deduction has increased minimally. The value added tax reduction has not passed, there have already been speeches, and it has been announced that a more efficient tax charge will be able to secure these 3 billion kunas in terms of a reduction of 2% profit tax. If we look further at what happens to our election promises, then there is already an announced way of calculating pensions that should be coordinated in the second half of 2005. About the Retirement Fund, there's a little thing that's been resolved, so there's a question of how it's going to work out. So, we have two months left incomplete so that the pensioners can get an individual calculation of their debt announced by the law, and we must say that there will probably be nothing. These days we are also being announced restrictions in the use of health services. So, when we add all this together, we really need to ask ourselves what we are doing here in the Parliament for a year and a half, which is done by the Government, we are making some kind of legislation that we are harmonising with the legislation of the European Union, and on the inside plan, on the economic side, we are almost doing nothing on a social basis. And then finally, let me say, there's a fellow Hebrang who said, so it's only a year and a half, and by the end of the term, we'll be cutting taxes. So again, we will have big announcements and big promises in the next campaign for parliamentary elections. I think it's irresponsible and it's inadmissible. And personally, although in opposition, I feel responsible for how we work here in the Parliament. So, when we sum up what the opposition clubs and opposition individuals have given in the opposition, we'll almost level with the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37567	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37568	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it bothers me a little bit, and it keeps repeating the incorrect assumption that our residents live exclusively on credit. Well, no, the whole Western system works the same way, as far as I know, and I know, because I have a lot of relatives out there, and they buy houses, apartments, buy credit cards, have everyone, however, the cards are considerably more used Well, correction, I said, it's not true that they don't live, that our employees live on credit. [[Agreement: Correction.]] Namely, in Metro where cash is paid are also tails, but this whole bill is pre-election and I don't think there's any point in talking about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37569	Opinion. Here you go, Mr. Representative, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37570	Infringement of Article 209 My colleague didn't correct me, I was saying that VAT income growth is growing faster than a gross social product is growing, which means that a good deal of services is being bought because people live on credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37571	Thank you. It's my opinion that 90% of it's about correction isn't correct. I tolerate them all the time, so it doesn't make sense to lift those plates because it stays always. Thank you very much. Correction of Mr. Andrija Hebrang's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I will really correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that we who have opposed this bill have no hearing of a zero rate. On the contrary, because we believe that social measures should protect those who have fewer, we reject a zero rate that equally suits those who have and who do not. So, just the opposite of this quote. To advocate that VAT is imposed on HRTU against whether or not we like editorial policy. It's also incorrect, because we said in our words, we advocate that VAT is paid because we pay it for HRT service and not for TV possession such as interpretation. And I repeat, if I seal my television set, I still own it and I don't have to pay my fee, because it's a fee not on TV possession but on a favor I get from HRT programs. So it's not exactly quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37573	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Representative Vladimir. But on behalf of the Proposer. Here's Vladimir Plesko and then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37574	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In this debate today on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I have to start at these points, seven points that are proposed to change at zero, means to reduce the VAT to these certain groups. What bothers me personally in this bill that in several items there are other or other needs as for children, means to obtain children’s food and clothing and other supplies. So it says in point 4 zero rate on donations to associations, trusts, institutions very broadly. It also states in point 5: zero rate on goods and services financed by Croatian Red Cross and others. And then I have to remind myself of what was in the explanation and in the explanation it was like this. The provision of funds in the account will reduce revenues, the grey economy needs to be reduced and thus will be compensated. However, all the governments of the Republic of Croatia from the 1990s until today have tried to reduce the grey economy. The best and most qualitative way to reduce the grey economy has proved through the introduction of a single value added tax rate introduced in 98. Through this way of taxation when there are no different tariff groups, when there are no different tax laws, the best quality of the money flow in the Republic of Croatia can also be monitored through a single rate, and the rate of tax duties that the Republic of Croatia is taking. It is normal with every increase in liberation, with any new legal change that would create different possibilities that are not fixed as I said before and another, there is the possibility of manipulation in these tax schemes and tax laws. And that's exactly what I disagree with. And to make certain things even more accurate through examples, we can start from, say, the first point that is proposed and that is the zero rate for children's food, clothing and children's supplies. Yeah, I totally agree to introduce a zero rate on baby-mille, baby-papa and some stuff sold through the pharmacy as a substitute for feeding children. I fully agree, however, whether through other supplies, a wheelchair for example for children moving in prices from some few hundred kunas to several thousand kunas whether or not such things should be put into zero VAT rates because this law provides. Also, in cosmetic products the other day we could see a commercial on TV where the mother takes the cosmetic product of a child and the child looks on that ad like she complains about why the mother takes his cosmetic preparation. There are a lot of things that can just through this interpretation of legal regulations simply later prove to be large holes in tax law and where they will try... The possibility, means where to try to find a hole so you don't pay taxes on certain things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Example two, zero rate for daily newspapers. Recently, we have a daily newspaper in Croatia costing three kunas. Does it mean the difference between the other daily newspapers is three kunas, an example of 24 hours and we have the Morning List as the leading daily newspaper. Is it just 24 hours because of this lack of material being said here today that they have today such a sale that virtually all other performers have gone by? No, they're not. It means that even this explanation of the costing of this product, the newspaper product will not lead to, meaning the expansion of the reader's circle. Third thing, zero rate for services and means zero rate on donations to associations, trusts, foreign institutions. One classic example. I know such examples have happened, so I'm going to point him out. Today, according to the Law on Associations, three persons, three citizens of the Republic of Croatia, can form an association. It is also possible for one of these people to go to Austria, Germany and through his friend who is constantly registered in Austria or Germany to pay for his ability and to pay for the latest Mercedes that will be used by this Association in Croatia. It's completely possible. It's completely possible. And it's normal for us to go with such examples that it's impossible to control it completely means that tax system. With every new such release because it is not clear and precisely defined what it refers to, there is a problem in tax revenues. I also agree when it comes to associations, foundations, institutions, with humanitarian needs in the Republic of Croatia, I fully agree that it is said for the purchase of vehicles, for the transport of disabled people means that they have disabled persons who have certain meanings of convenience whether the entry-force ramps or something so that they do not charge VAT. I agree with that, but then it needs to be made clear in the law. Or there is another possibility that speaks the following way: for each such vehicle, the Republic of Croatia will make that association a tax refund. But it's generally very problematic to leave. I also remember when we talk about point 6 at rate for, zero rate for importing cars once in five years for disabled people 80 and more, I remember about ten years ago when they were very popular and disabled licenses that were forced to correct the percentage of disability by two, three, five percent to cross the 70% threshold. Today I believe by applying such a law and by passing such a law there will again be a jag for the possibilities in which to get to that threshold 80%? Did we make it a fair, accurate, quality law for the Republic of Croatia? I don't think so. And when we talk about the release of the fee to HRT. Dear gentlemen, everyone in this Republic has to pay taxes. Everyone. At your service. The fact that payment of the subscription is a service for what we get from Croatian broadcasting. That's a fact. Whether you call it one or the other, but it is a service that Croatian broadcasting gives to all citizens. Yes, there is one part of the information program in that service, but it is also a large part that is not informative and not in the service of public television, but is in the service of citizen entertainment, which is then through subscription and service. At a service like any private entrepreneur must pay taxes and therefore Croatian broadcasting should pay taxes, and I must now replicate to Mr Vujic, who said that because of the development of pluralism, Croatian broadcasting pays 30 million kuna. She's supposed to be paying, but she's not paying. And through this way of developing to charge VAT on this fee through this way, the Republic of Croatia could pay all other smaller televisions to regional televisions from 120 million kuna collected. And this would practically end up with just one more finding and a practical response to Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic's thinking which says that the tax reform initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with, under the leadership of the President Sanader is not good and that it is not there at all. They have two, two ways to implement tax reforms. There is a tax reform opportunity to implement tax reform to relieve tax burdens, but there is also the possibility of reform that creates incentives through its tax possibility and incentives for greater production and incentives to increase the number of jobs. My personal view that the tax reform of the Republic of Croatia must be directed towards increasing the number of jobs in the Republic of Croatia, to increase the technological, machine parks of the Republic of Croatia in production and in production activities, not through the release of taxes and all other things that are foreseen here today by this Proposal for Amendments and Supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37575	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Correction of an incorrect allegation. First replica Mr. Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37576	Dear Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague spoke about cars, so I must remind him that his party has promised Croatian defenders who have not used the privileges of importing a private car that they will be able to do so. Unfortunately, they didn't get that. It also promised Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities. Unfortunately, it's not even fulfilled. We have a situation that one number of Croatian defenders who had money imported a private car, and the other one will not be able to introduce it, and thus it was contained in the guarantee card. It was also contained in the guarantee card that Croatia will start to account with the grey economy. Those promises were made by both government and government...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37577	What's the correction to the quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37578	Replica. Well, come on, look, Mr. President. So don't take away my word. [[And me, the replica. All right. Excuse me.]] Now you're distracting me, yes. Well, that, but it doesn't mean there's an effective fight against the gray economy. [[The intruders don't understand.]] So there is no effective fight against the gray economy until the new State Inspectorate Act is passed that the inspectors will have concrete powers to combat the gray economy. Because what they've got now is nothing, and we know for a fact that they can only initiate a misdemeanor procedure, and of that, 60% falls to the Criminal Court because of old age. Therefore, and this is also an important thing because, through the grey economy, the revenues of the state budget are being reduced. And now I have to look back at another part that's not said, which is also important at zero. We believe in the HSP Club that VAT should be abolished and funeral equipment and services because we ourselves are aware of the situation that one part is returning from the woodwork but it is only 850 kuna per death. Only 850 kuna after death. If we're a social state then let's cancel VAT on funeral equipment and services because these are cases... I'm asking you, dear colleague, to respond to the word "what," and the word is given by the vice president. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't throw it away. We're not on the payroll. So that's the same important thing and the important problem that needs to be solved because we know there's a difficult situation. People die, they have nowhere to bury, they have no money to bury their loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37579	Thank you very much. Once again, I apologize for correcting an incorrect quote. It was a replica, then. And now the answer to the replica Mr. Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37580	Well, I have to, I have to answer to an esteemed colleague because we know very well about the defenders that the defenders of groups 80, 90% are free of charge and have the possibility of importing cars without VAT collection. That's right for the disabled 100%. They get as familiar with the law cars every five years. Part two of the replica regarding preventing the gray economy. I have to answer in that section that I regret, primarily as an entrepreneur, a craftsman that four or four years ago that it was abolished, that the financial police were. Because it was the only institute and institution in Croatia that could verify tax revenues in time and in the right way through VAT and thus control the donations. This has been abolished by the former government and has led to many deteriorations in VAT collection, not to mention that around 90 and, 2003, some 68% of the VAT reported. And where from the unreported?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37581	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37582	Well, in fact, a statement by his colleagues disinformation Croatian defenders in terms of the statement that Croatian defenders have the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37583	And what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37584	So we can find an article by the Rules of Procedure that forbids such difficulty. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37585	So you said the defenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37586	So, no injured Rules of Procedure, and the gentleman was responding to the replica, so he's not necessarily obliged to stick to anything, he can speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37587	He's wider, and he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: But at least the law to stick to.]] Therefore, you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he was not injured. Mr. Shime Luchin, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37588	Thank you very much. It is true that all citizens have a duty to pay taxes. However, it is also true that the state has an obligation to redistribute those funds according to legal principles, that is, if you want constitutional principles. The fact is that neither one of them works in Croatia. However, the issue of media and the issue of calculations and evaluations around the media and freedom of the media. Because speaking of actually tax burdens, state media burdens we're talking about actually freedom of the media. I don't have to remind you especially when it comes to television. By 2000 one of Croatia's main objections was the freedom of the media, especially Croatian television. You can make the media dependent in different ways, direct interference, tax burden. Let's say that the cheapness of the media doesn't affect its sales is actually incorrect, because the medium you mentioned because of your low price actually reached a large number of readers and took away a number of readers of existing media. I assure you that tomorrow there's some kind of medium that would cost two kunas to have a bigger circulation than some of today's media. Therefore, it would be good to have an argumentative conversation. The second segment of democracy you also mentioned, the civil sector. Well, the civil sector is the same as your medium. The state can stifle your civil sector, and your freedom today, in fact, is measured by two basic principles in the world of democracy. It's based on the development of the civil sector and on the development and freedom of the media. And today, when you read the reports of different institutions and governmental and non-governmental people in the world, you actually have these two basic parameters, and in the country, it actually decides what tax or total policy is actually going to create that space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37589	Thank you. Answer Mr. Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37590	Thank you. Maybe my colleague Lucin didn't understand what I was going to say. I wanted to say through my debate that everyone in Croatia should pay taxes and that by creating different exemptions comes to a hole in tax law that will be very, very difficult to control, which will cause an avalanche that today can reduce tax revenues not for planned 50, 100, 200 million kunas, but also for far greater funds. And what about the media when we speak the same way if we are all equal before the law, then all companies in Croatia should be equal before the law. If one entrepreneur has to pay VAT then I believe that Croatian radio television should also pay VAT because it provides a certain service. Whether it is through an increase in subscription or charges increases 5 kuna so that VAT can be paid, but it should be paid. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37591	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37592	Here's a correction to the incorrect allegations of a respected representative. And several times it's been repeated here in the Parliament, about the fee, the HTV fee. Therefore, the esteemed representative said that the fee is a fee for the service done by the Croatian Radio Television. However, the law decidedly states, in the HRT Act. The owners of radio, television receivers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to pay the fee to HRT. There is no mention of any service, no program, but a relationship to radio and television receivers. So we can think of it as, like, just like a real tax, not a service tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37593	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zeljko Pavlic, or the promoter, I'm sorry. Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37594	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's just that a man can't not answer another time about this bill and as a representative of the proposer. Look, whether we wanted to or not, the tax system itself is actually a blood flow and an economic and every social life of a country, a social community. For this reason, the tax system as a whole, and as its component, has both its national and its own strategic and its own economic, its social, its most innovative or demographic, constitutional-legal, so if you want a moral dimension or question. And allow respected colleagues and colleagues. Let's talk in front of ourselves, let's put aside party and inter-party relations now. Is it normal for us to get and organise a donor conference or a donor convention where foreigners and domestic natural and legal persons show up, give money to demining, then we take 22% of that money as a state community instead of demining, for any other consumption, and allow for social needs. Look, something that is of national importance, of strategic importance, is that as soon as we demin the country, we put natural resources into operation. Dear colleagues, is it even lawful to discuss from a moral point of view, that the international association of the Red Cross together with the Red Cross or the Caritas or Samaritans prepare and organise a fundraising action to help the country's most socially endangered residents and then charge VAT for it. Let's be realistic. Let's face it, let's discuss this completely realistically. Is it normal to discuss that shoes are children's or children's clothing maltene just as expensive as a suit for an adult and a shoe. Well, we can't talk like that. Here you go with that zero rate that for what it can be and introduce, which can be from national, from economic, from social and any other point of view. Dear colleagues, and in this context I understand the zeal of the political struggle to defend your position, your party's position, etc. But there's no need to reach for such arguments that can actually be difficult to be valid because they don't have a valid foothold from the aspect of their reality, not to tell the truth. For example, when it is said among other things that there is no need to discuss this law of maltene anymore, because this law was, among other things, pre-election, a law for local and regional self-government, for... Well, colleagues, look when he's being referred to the procedure. [[You don't understand.]] Well, the law was sent to procedure on February 17th, long before the election was called for local and regional self-government and has nothing to do with the elections for local and regional self-government. It also doesn't matter because the elections are over. In fact, it has to do with these issues that we talked about earlier, about social, economic, denational, state-of-the-art issues, whatever you want. A third or already a question you want to say. Look, you can't say that VAT is related to consumption or credit debt and it doesn't matter. Well, there is. Well, colleagues, we charge VAT on imported goods, perfectly normal because they were released there in the country of origin of these goods. But what is startling is that it corresponds the rate of tax growth to an additional value with the rate of growth of import products and for the rate of growth trust your colleagues or do not believe the deficit, not with the rate of growth of the national gross product. And that's what seriously warns what needs to be done. We have a VAT growth rate, but it's not a problem whether the growth rate follows this or that, but the problem is that the deficit is falling, it's just as high as VAT, or as a tax rate. And at the same time, in fact, the biggest problem is the expenditure side of the budget that is constantly increasing and in this respect something needs to be done. Or another question. When you reach out and say, now TV doesn't pay extra taxes, so it has to pay for the subscription. So wait. Ma Television on each of your products, on each of your services pay taxes on extra value. The subscription is being discussed here as a commission, excuse me, as a fee, as a special form of tax that has burdened all the citizens of this country for the function of Television as public television. And in that context, the second question is whether we're going to free it or not. But I argue, what is important is that the Law on Croatian Television set it free. And we can't have that law talking about fees, so tax. And at the same time, you charge taxes on taxes because it's the opposite of yourself, to yourself. Of course, that's why we suggest that it be a zero rate and in this law that it definitely gets off the agenda, not that the rule actually changes the Law on Television. I also have to say that it's very interesting to ask the question of how to get to 80%. Look. I'm setting up a reverse situation. How to reduce the unemployment rate of 19 and a half or some indicators 15%. When colleagues say that, of course, promotional tax policy should act on areas of free zone, technology parks, etc. I agree with them. But VAT is produced on these products if they are intended for export not to charge. That's why there's a free zone. So he shoots himself wrong. We need to discuss something completely different here. How to achieve an incentive policy by means of tax policy to achieve an economic and social system. We claim that these activities that will receive a zero rate will open up one part of the production and extend the possibility of its operation, in the end, especially those which are in a difficult crisis situation such as textile production, such as footwear, in particular children's clothing and footwear production, etc. and a need for children. It is certainly because the input costs in this production are lower if VAT is released. It's a similar situation with other questions. To me, it's simply an unimaginable claim, for example, among other things, what it would mean is that a jag will open up to 80% of the disability. Well, for God's sake, there's a license plate that's respected by disabled commissions. And I don't believe that anyone would now accept to the point of being disabled to lose a single limb to increase, arms or legs to increase their disability rate. So, for God's sake, where are we going? Well, come on, let's give it a little bit for ourselves if we start this question for nothing else. Then this question, why the others. We mentioned examples of the Croatian Red Cross and Caritas. And don't you think that the Maltese Order should, for example, not or the Croatian Dragon Society should free the payment of VAT if it makes an organised humanitarian action to help a particular category of citizens or a total of any category of endangered citizens. I mean it myself. Why can't the Croatian Dragon Society organise a donor auction for example dinner, raise certain funds and, for example, endangered, child-threatening defenders or fallen defenders to organise appropriate assistance. And why would they pay the VAT now? Of course, there's a possibility by the book, if that's possible, but it doesn't have to be released by the Ministry of Finance. Well, my people, it's not a matter of the Ministry of Finance, so it's a matter of the social and state community. And for this reason, I ask you to approach in this proposal the amendments and additions of the laws from not only the party's policymaking which the party will outplay, but to see whether this law and to what extent contributes to the achievement of the economic and social objectives of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, to addressing the social problems of socially endangered citizens. We claim that it contributes and will contribute to reviving the economy. Of course in the first two three months he has negative effects. But after the economy swings, it gets positive effects and permanently contributes to economic growth and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37595	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zeljko Pavlic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37596	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Let me take a brief look at not passing this law. So the Value Added Tax Act. At first, I can say that I support this law. In my view, too, it should go towards a reform of the tax system that should be more socially targeted. And what's even more important is that he's targeted. So with these resources that are meant for social policy, let's focus them on those problems that weigh the most on our daily lives. These measures have already been said here as well as fire measures where the test is done in such a way and intervene exactly where it is most needed. And that is why I especially support this first point of the law which speaks of a zero rate for children's food, clothing and other needs in the spirit of strengthening the most intelligent policy. I think it's very necessary because unfortunately the data tells us about a negative trend in the birth rate policy. And here's the data that tells us that in 2003 there was a decline in the number of live births compared to 2002. And so, unfortunately, this year as compared to last year. So a 1.1%) drop was recorded or, specifically, in 2003, 426 fewer children were born than in 2002. Some demographics therefore estimate that if such a trend continued in 2031, Croatia would count only about 3 million and 600,000 inhabitants. So almost for, or more than half a million inhabitants would have less than it was today. Also, trends have been present for years as regards natural growth, which has been negative for almost 20 years, to culminate just past this year where natural growth is somewhere minus 3%. These are really worrying results, worrying data, and I think Croatia must invest everything so that it can reverse the situation. This is only a small step towards this direction, and Croatia needs therefore a stronger more systematic natal policy. Also if we were to pass this law, there would also be changes as to "sindical baskets". We have heard today that the union cart is one of the indicators showing the social status of our families. Here's some data for last year, so the average salary last year was about four thousand kuna, and the union basket was about five thousand 259 kuna. Which means that with salary, with one average salary, you could only meet 76% of the costs that we had for these personal needs listed in the "sindical basket". And it's right there in that "sindical basket" the largest item is actually 35% related to nutrition, so this one, too, would affect the reduction of the difference between opportunity and reality. And the situation is actually even more drastic. So I said that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was last year, before the end of last year, 2 thousand and 400 kuna. And unfortunately the differences are largely drastic from county to county so some counties have a much lower average salary at the same cost of basket. Here, for example. My Međimurje County is unfortunately known to have a 30% lower average salary than the state-run republican average, which therefore speaks of covering almost or slightly above 50% of the union basket. So I think that should change it systematically, so not just in this way with these little steps. What I'd like to talk about is the same as point 4 where it's about a zero rate on donations to associations, foundations and institutions from abroad. Here I can only remind myself that together with my colleagues, here Radoshe and Herman, I was a proposing several months ago another law on value added tax where we proposed that associations that protect the constitutionally protected values of Article 3 of the VAT exemption. It is important to note that since 2001, the former coalition government has, therefore, freed all non-profit organisations, associations and institutions, so as to pay VAT, so that this government, by its rule of law, would reintroduce the obligation to these associations to pay VAT, therefore, on import goods. Unfortunately, our law is not accepted, so there is a non-profit organisation, so I say those that protect the values of Article 3 must today pay VAT which makes it very difficult for them to function, and I think that the Republic of Croatia could benefit a lot, so if they could work on their full scale, I think it should change that as soon as possible. A few words more about this last point that actually speaks of the release of value added tax on HRT tax. I have already mentioned earlier that according to the HRT Act it is a tax, a tax paid by the owners of television or radio. It's decadently stated in the law, that I'm not quoting it again. The owners of radio and television receivers are obliged to pay the fee. So it's not about users of any service, it's about the owners, it's about the whole item. The owner of the receiver, the owner of the receiver, is obliged to pay that tax. It doesn't matter, so it's no fee for a service that is equally available to all citizens, right, because unfortunately we have cases that there are in Međimurje and in other counties along the Slovenian border our citizens can't receive the HTV programme, and on the other hand, by the letter of the law, they have to pay this tax. So you can see that the state is actually behind what's in this law. Here and finally, once again, to support this law, noting that Croatia needs a systematic social policy, and in particular we need a systematic and targeted national policy because it is the biggest problem currently in place in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37597	Thank you very much. It is up to Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic, whom he does not have, so he loses his right. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37598	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary parties of the Croatian Parliament accepted Croatia's entry into the European Union by consensus. They have therefore accepted the harmonisation of our Croatian rules with the acquis of the European Union, and one of the many regulations to be harmonised with the European Union is the rules on value added tax. According to the provisions of the sixth VAT guidelines of the European Union, the zero rate is intended only for the taxation of goods exports and for the export of uniform deliveries. The same guidelines further state that, in addition to the standard general value added tax rates, one or two reduced rates can be introduced, but not less than 5% and only for the products and services listed in the “H” six guidelines annex. If our commitment is to join the European Union, then we must bring our legal and other acts into line with the standards of the European Union on our way to full membership. That is why, at the very least, it is illogical for me to now amend the VAT Act and then, in due course, re-change and bring it into line with the guidelines of the European Union. On the other hand, I believe that lawmakers or their amendments and additions must bear in mind the inherited political and economic situation. The bill does not show how much revenue cuts will occur in the state budget. The proposed measures will also not achieve the desired social effects. Any proposed relief would also benefit those who are not needed, those with higher and higher incomes. Low-income families need to be helped directly. I do not believe that removing VAT on daily newspapers would reduce the price of daily newspapers would already be an increased income for publishing houses. Newspapers are also the most funded by ads and commercials. It is questionable to consider whether the removal of VAT on demining services would increase the scope of demining operations, as it is almost 100% the contracting authority of the state. And I'm sure every MP could suggest a dozen goods and services at zero VAT rates, but then he wouldn't have the moral right to require a triple budget. In the end, I accept the government's opinion and suggest that this law not be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37599	Thank you very much. And Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37600	Your Honor, Vice President. After reading the government's argument as to why it is not acceptable for her to accept this law, I asked one fundamental question, which is actually the fundamental interest of the government. Is it true that this declared policy of art, whether it takes care of children or not? If so, then why not make it possible first of all to parents d for children buy basic supplies 18% cheaper. Let's just say, the question to me is, when was the last time the prime minister was at the store and does he even know how much diapers cost, how much children's shoes, Banks, or, say, chocolate? Does the prime minister know how much, for example, a family with average income in Croatia can buy these basic children's supplies for one child? What if such a family with average income has two children or if such a family has three children, which is desirable in Croatia to change the negative demographic image, or to raise our birthright? How much, then, can a family with average income buy basic needs for those three children? I'm convinced the prime minister doesn't know this, but I'm sure the prime minister knows how much a 12.5-metre yacht costs, I'm sure he knows how much it costs, for example, a BMW week, a new series of driving. Now the question is what is the government's interest. I'll try to explain it to an example of the relationship between the diapers and the yachts, perhaps incomparable and perhaps comparable. You see, most of the yachts that were bought last year in Croatia were bought at the expense of legal persons, so at the expense of businesses and crafts. Is that what VAT is paid for buying these yachts? It is, so a bill has been issued, it's accounted for by VAT, and VAT has been paid. However, all these entrepreneurs, i.e. those legal persons, have also made a pre-taxation within 30 days of the tax administration, i.e. the state budget has returned to them a large majority of VAT paid on those yachts in the form of a pre-tax. What else have these legal people done? They amortized those yachts that year. So in the last year, they're going to do an amortisation and cut the tax base for profit tax. Which means that the owners of these yachts didn't pay VAT, didn't pay the profit tax, bought that yacht for about 35 cheaper than other people who didn't buy it at the expense of legal persons. Now, you see, when parents buy diapers, then I can't get a pre-tax. I can't even charge diapers as tax-recognition expenditure and thus reduce income tax. But they have to pay taxes on each other. So if we look at it that way, then we ask the question, really, what is the government's interest? Is the government's interest in buying yachts or is it the government's interest that the average family can buy children's supplies more favourable and provide their children with a better quality of life? You see, most parents don't even have a corporate card. I can't take my children to work lunch at the expense of companies or crafts. They have to pay 22% of VAT per chocolate. On a very high-quality fish in a very expensive restaurant, this usually counts as a cost, the 30% so, and VAT is considered a pretax. Or what about cars? Last year, 33% of cars were purchased, and about 67,000 new cars were purchased at the expense of legal persons. So 33% of cars didn't pay VAT, or any VAT, did, and all these cars will be amortised, so the profit tax has been reduced. And from this VAT paid by those who buy expensive things and profit taxes, the state should be socially sensitive and calm to those who cannot, therefore, have poor material status. Look how fast the story turns. The state budget doesn't fill up those who buy expensive yachts. The state budget filled with VAT average families who pay VAT on diaper packages that must buy and pay taxes on it. Here, now the UNICEF's action is under way. "Every child has the right to have a family." The goal is to raise 2 million kunas. I hope that, that or that will be collected very soon. But what will be the result of this action? The result of the action will be that 18% of that money will be merged into the state budget as VAT. Is that the goal of UNICEF? Is that the goal of the citizens who are on the phone and who were shopping on Saturday in the Flower Market products? That out of the 2 million, therefore, almost 400 thousand are coming through VAT or is the goal of obtaining the total amount of foster families? Speaking of which, my amendment turned down when I suggested that with 2 thousand 500 kuna, the foster care of children who have children would be increased. 6 years, not 6 but since 2001, that fee has not been increased. These families don't have bills. Households do not have bills, are not legal persons, cannot make advances but pay the total amount. They're the ultimate users in that. Now you see, that's where the same question is raised, says the promoter did not say it would affect the state budget. Come on. When did the government propose to increase the untaxed part of the salary from a thousand to a thousand 600 kuna, did it take care of how this would affect local budgets? She had a crush on her. Because 70% of income tax is the income of local self-government units. No one in the explanation has said how this will affect the budgets of local self-government. And now there's a big concern here about what we're going to allow citizens to buy more favourable products for their children, so it's going to happen slightly, reduce VAT into the budget. So let's go, let's increase the efficiency of the bill that Minister Shucker's been talking about since he got here... Tax revenues are not increased due to the efficiency of the collection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're increasing because everyone's increasing because there's more purchases, the GDP's bigger, so the growth is bigger. As a result, what is saddest is that VAT increases most in the calculation of customs duties. So, when the goods are imported. It is obvious, therefore, that you do not want to, that you do not want to go to the average family here in Croatia, but you want to go to the hands of those who have a lot, who have more. Which doesn't matter exactly how much VAT is, because most of it is being used through pretax. They don't care. You know, whoever VAT through a pre-tax yacht is analizing him doesn't care if the VAT is 22 or 47%. He'll just analize it. You see, the ruling majority may, of course, gather 77 hands to pass this bill, but I'm sure they can't find any valid reason. You may have hands or keys, but you cannot convince citizens that this law is unacceptable to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37601	Final review, Proposer. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37602	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate, especially those who supported the amendment and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act. Let me just say for a moment, we propose to extend the possibility of tax exemptions for added value for clothing and shoes intended for children under 7 years of age, children's food, hygiene supplies and children's help in raising and educating children. For daily newspapers, for services or demining jobs, for donations to associations, trusts and institutions from abroad. For goods and services provided by humanitarian organisations to natural and legal persons in order to provide humanitarian aid to citizens and to import cars once in 5 years for disabled people 80% and more. Why we managed to choose exactly these products and services that should be further exempt from paying value added tax. Because that's what we would do, in some ways, increase purchasing power by 18% in this segment to those citizens who have fewer incomes and who are more socially vulnerable. Of course, says colleague Hebrang, we would equally please everyone, both the rich and the poor. However, there is an incomparable number of those benefiting from this because products would be bought by 18% cheaper for their children. It should be said that children in those years, so by the age of 7, they grow very quickly, that often they also need to buy clothes and shoes that are expensive, far more expensive than for adults. Which you can't buy on sales still in Croatia. And the next thing we're suggesting is to clarify, the saying is that HRT tax is not a service, that it's actually a tax, tax and that it should not be paid VAT. And to completely remove the possibility that the government, at certain accounting times, even forced to charge this tax, is the fact that there is a dispute between the Government and the Ministry of Finance, HRT and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Tax Administration. So let me get this straight. Once again, I thank all those who took part in the debate, and I hope that we will have enough time to declare this law to go to another reading, and that until then the Government of this intention, which it has announced, will consider and propose a reduction of taxes, i.e. total taxes, then together in the near future and discuss and bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37603	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are now going to vote on the debated agenda points. First is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, P.Z. No. 255. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act proposed by representatives Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjević, Dragica Zgrebec for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies is not accepted. Please engage. We can vote. The result? The conclusion accepted with 65 votes for, one abstention and 32 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37606	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for the law on benches in the Croatian Parliament that certainly cannot be told what we heard about some other proposals so that it can be called the political law, this is indeed one bill that tries to warn the entire Croatian public about the problem that we have and invite all those who can contribute to this important serious life problem being solved with the help of the profession, honest and responsible people. The Democratic Center has proposed this bill, I would say a few words as to why and when we were around, which were intended to propose such a bill. In fact, you yourself have witnessed that in the past year, in the last quarter of last year, there has been an intolerant, offensive controversy in the media, that an intolerant way has been debated in which many have taken part in the debate so that there have been a lot of offensive and ridiculous findings. This was based on the withdrawal of public representation and publication of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which the Government had given the green light, however, that Law was withdrawn, despite the fact that a group of experts contributed and contributed, the Croatian public had no opportunity to talk about it, so that was why we at the time of this debate and such findings we proposed this Bill proposal and addressed the Parliament to the debate. We hope that this proposal of the Law will draw the attention of all those responsible here and here in the Parliament and in society and that after the first, second, third reading we will reach a new Law. In the last 10 years, in most European countries, there have been changes, many of these countries have brought amendments to the law almost new legislation, which regulates the treatment of infertility, harmonising this legislation with the progress of medicine and technology. In Croatia, several years ago, the new law was unsuccessfully tried to replace the one now in force, which is the 1998 law. First of all, it is clear to all those who know the problem well that this Law is in some way an obstacle and that it really needs to be changed. Why, for example, many questions are unregulated for example, such as egg - cell donations or embryos, which simply in those earlier conditions 27 years ago was not possible to define by the law of that time. The current Law does not allow many things, nor does it defend them. The Croatian public has become particularly sensitive and concerned after the Kurjak affair broke out. In many of the newspapers at the time, they had a flood of various information and suspected that the participants in this affair were certain women who had been treated for infertility without their knowledge taking egg cells and allegedly sold them to women who had no cells of their own due to disease or menopause. Furthermore, in Croatia there were many other findings in circulation that alerted people who participated in these treatment processes. There are also suspicions that some women have been embezzled by couples who didn't know about it at all. It is known that two years ago, only the Ministry of Health found that at least three women gave birth to children conceived by a foreign egg cell. Everything as you know ended up in court, the court has not yet spoken of it, has not reached any verdict as to whether and when the responsibility of those people involved will be established. Why, because you don't know by what laws the defendants should be tried. Namely, no law says that stealing an egg cell or an embryo is forbidden. With these reasons that I have now cited, there are a number of ethical, legal issues that have not been resolved, namely a large number of our citizens, who have a problem with infertility, who want to solve this issue for themselves very importantly and are looking for a way to solve it. There are more and more interested couples who want to use this kind of medical treatment. Furthermore, it is our intention when we propose this Law to prevent any kind of manipulation and abuse from reaching a greater role in the profession, especially in the medical profession, and to achieve a greater role in social control means all those who are expert in the knowledge of this issue. Likewise, when we proposed, we gave this Bill proposal that a large number of our couples go to neighbouring countries to be treated there with these modern treatment procedures in other countries and that there is often no quality record and the ultimate goal is to establish really precise statistics in Croatia. Those were our intentions when we proposed this. We held that medically assisted fertilization is not a crime or manipulation but a medical procedure that helps infertile couples to treat infertility, or to obtain or give birth to a child. This process helps life and we keep supporting life and with the help of professions, responsible people, ethical people, not to be used... the public who is not well educated. Furthermore, we hold that a child so conceived is not a thing, it is a gift of God. By subjecting to artificial insemination as an infertility treatment procedure, we maintain that a woman does not endanger her own life any more than she does with other treatments. Therefore, here are the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, which are actually the basic reasons for which we wanted to define precisely some important issues that regulate this bill. Our bill clearly shows when and how there is something to do in this important sphere of life. Before I cross over, I'd like to give a brief explanation for the individual articles of this law... What is the practice, for example, in some countries, of our neighbouring countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say, in Slovenia, I collected that couple of data. The law was passed in 2000. Their law allows the donation of sperm and egg cells. It's forbidden to donate a plot and artificial insemination of a woman without a partner. The success of artificial insemination ranges from 27% to 29% and is treated by a procedure beyond physical fertilisation by 2,000 couples. A woman until 43 has the right to four free proceedings. About 3.3% or 580 children are born annually after artificial insemination and artificial insemination stands at about 1,000 and 500 euros and is kept for five years. For example, we have examples from the Czech Republic that belong to one of the most liberal countries that regulates medically assisted fertilisation in Europe and often there Croatian couples go, especially at the University clinic in Prague. They have the next situation. The law was passed in 1996, a donation of sperm, egg cells and embryos was allowed, and artificial insemination of women without partners was prohibited. The success of artificial insemination is 35%. Tens of thousands of out-of-body fertilisation procedures are performed annually. A woman by the age of 40 is entitled to three free proceedings. About 3% or 2,000 and 700 children are born annually after artificial insemination. The artificial fertilisation costs 2,000 euros and the traps are kept until the couple decides otherwise. We have an example of Italy. Italy has one of the most restrictive laws in Europe. Assisted procreation is allowed only to spouses, including non-married wives, but in a proven stable relationship with the sole use of male and egg seeds. It is not allowed to take seeds or eggs outside the pair, it is not allowed to create more than three embryos at once. All traps must be transferred to the woman. The unused embryo must die and not be used for anything. The embryo must not be genetically controlled before inserting to establish malformation. That's, say, the data for these three countries. What is the situation in Croatia in short? The law I said was passed in 1978. A sperm donation is permitted. The donation of ova and embryos is not mentioned. No artificial insemination of a woman without a partner is allowed. The success of fertilisation is estimated at 25%. Annual out-of-body fertilisation procedures treat 2,000 couples and women by 38 have the right to three free out-of-body fertilisation procedures. There's no record of children born. It is estimated that since 1983, 15 thousand children have been born through some medically assisted fertilisation method. The artificial insemination stands in private for about a thousand and 500 euros and the traps are kept forever without guarantee of control. Here, I have presented this information that I have been able to collect from which it is possible to see what is the situation with us or what is the situation with neighbouring countries with the intention that this will help us with a more quality discussion. This draft law is in line with the laws, which we propose, on assisted fertilisation in many European countries. For example, first of all, it is quite similar to the law in Italy, Austria and Germany and a dose of caution that is visible in these solutions and suggestions stems from the consciousness and our good memories of unloved events still present in the Croatian public because of the manipulation of the egg cells that I mentioned earlier in the "Kurjak affair", then the lost, frozen traps in Peter's hospital, etc. Technological work in Croatia needs to be done in order to ensure the process and success of the process of fertilisation outside the body. We are also witnessing recent newspaper inscriptions that in the Krono institution in Zagreb that implements the extra-body fertilisation of all affairs and the absence of the law have in fact led to almost shutting down this activity. Here, that's one I say frame and the reasons why we came out with this bill. I would try in this second part to give myself some clarifications regarding certain provisions. Therefore, the basic provisions in the draft bill refer to the right to medically assisted fertilisation. For example, Article 3 recognises the right to medically assisted insemination when early treatment for infertility is ineffective or when it comes to premature menopause, ovarian removal, when there is the possibility of transferring severe hereditary disease to a child or when there is another cause that results in infertility. The proposer of this draft shall refer to a strict definition which types of procedures medically assisted fertilisation and how their implementation should be carried out. That's what we've given in articles 4 to 7. The provisions of the second chapter of the legislative proposal determine the types of procedures of medically assisted fertilisation and the way they are implemented and lay down the ultimate objective of medically assisted fertilisation. It stresses the advantage of using its own sex cells, marriage or extramarital mates, which provide medical assistance or homologous fertilisation but also provides the possibility of using donated seeds or egg cells of another person or heterologous fertilisation under certain conditions. Article 6(2) provides that the right to heterogeneous insemination is to have spouses who are in the marriage community for at least a year and outside marriage mates who are outside the marriage community for at least three years. Article 7(2) provides that the procedures for medically assisted fertilisation include the procedures for taking ova and taking and storing semen cells. Articles 8 to 12 process almost the most important part of the draft of this bill, which is the age of a woman who enters the medically assisted fertilisation process. For 42 years, as the upper limit of the age of the woman to enter into the medically assisted fertilisation procedure, we justify that mild but effective pregnancy and the outcome of a significant change in sexual hormones occur at over 42 years of age. The percentage of foetal malformations is increasing multiple and the risk of developing even fatal complications of pregnancy is increasing significantly. Scientific research has proven that every so-called Pre-impletional genetics, therefore taking a few cells in the course of development of the foetus outside the body in medically assisted fertilisation may disrupt the future health of the child born so that it is a limiting factor which, if fully successful, might also allow for the medical treatment of the insemination of women older than 42 years of age. Similarly, Article 8(3) also emphasizes the age of an egg donor limited to a age of 38 years because by that age, the egg cell retains the quality necessary for the development of the fruit outside the body. Today, at the time of the Law on the Rights and Protection of Patients, it is necessary that spouses or extramaritals who approach methods of medically assisted insemination be well informed about all the processes that await them on the way to the desired goal, which is pregnancy and the birth of a healthy child. The draft law on assisted fertilisation therefore provides for the need to sign an informed consent before each individual procedure and not only once at the entry into the process. Why is that so important? It is precisely because there is no case of loss of understanding between doctors and spouses, or outside marriage mates, because the methods, medicines and conditions in which treatment is conducted may differ from each other during treatment for infertility. The decision of mates and non-marriages to undergo medically assisted fertilisation should be made with full information in all important issues such as the possibility of treating infertility and other forms of parenting, such as adoption. Especially in the case of male and female infertility where there is no chance that they will receive their own offspring. Prior to all procedures of medically assisted fertilisation, or other authorised healthcare professionals will explain the details of the procedure, the prospects of success, and the possible consequences and dangers, and the dangers of the procedure for the woman, the male and the child. This is referred to in Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In Article 10, the obligation of legal and psychological counselling is attributed to a user who, prior to the conduct of a medically assisted heterogeneous fertilisation procedure using donated sex cells to learn about possible psychological effects of consent to the planned procedure of medically assisted heterogeneous fertilisation. The provisions of Article 11(1) lay down that the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation are to be carried out only if the users are informed and advised of the planned procedure of medically assisted fertilisation, and for a certain procedure they have given consent in the form of a written declaration certified by the public notary. Paragraph 2 provides that, with a request for medically assisted insemination, the free consent of mates or extramaritals referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall also be submitted for each medically assisted fertilisation procedure, in particular in view of the type of fertilisation and origin of sex cells. The said consent of women and men may be withdrawn and withdrawn from the medically assisted fertilisation procedure until semen cells or egg cells have been introduced into the body of the woman. A declaration of withdrawal of the consent referred to in paragraph shall be made in writing which the health institution is obliged to submit to the national register. Before entering seed or egg cells, the doctor is required to obtain a confirmation from the national registry that consent is not withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law, the legislative proposal, shall be governed by a circle of persons and bodies who have the right of insight into the data on conception and donors of the State Registry on the medically assisted fertilisation of the Ministry of Health. That Article provides that a child born after fertilisation, donated to a semen cell or an egg cell with 15 years of age of age, may, for medical reasons only and with the prior approval of the national bioethical commission, require an insight into health data and a donor, or donor, contained in the national register of medical aid to the Ministry of Health Affairs. For medical reasons and child welfare, there is also a legal representative of the child with prior approval of the National Bioethical Commission for Medical Aided Insemination. The child’s doctor may require an insight into the national register, and data on the child and the donor if this has been made available on his request and for the medically justified law and child welfare previously approved by the National Bioethical Commission. The right to gain insight into the national register and data on the child and donors of sex stations shall be subject to the court and body of the State Administration when necessary in relation to the application of this Act. ... For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The legislative proposal addresses the issue, addresses issues with donors, defines the concept of donors, their rights and obligations, and determines the role and obligations of a medical institution which has the power to carry out medically assisted fertilisation procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 13 determines the donor of public or semen cells. Article 14 provides for the donation and use of semen cells and ova only on the basis of the freely written consent of the donor and the donor. It is also regulated that the donor’s consent should contain a statement from the donor on a written basis that they are familiar with the right to access the data of the national register of persons referred to in Article 12 of this Act. Article 15 provides for the possibility that a donor or a donor of sex cells may donate their eggs and semen cells exclusively to one of the health institutions authorised to carry out the heterologous fertilisation procedure. Article 16 prohibits the donation or receipt of cash compensation or any other benefit in the case of donation of sex cells as well as the conclusion of a contract for the entry of sex cells. Articles 17 to 27, Chapter 5 of this legislative proposal provides for the implementation of medically assisted fertilisation procedures. The provisions of Article 17 shall determine the treatment of sex cells and traps. Article 18 provides that any heterogeneous fertilisation procedure requires the consent of the national bioethical commission. Article 19 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine relating to fair procedure, health care and professional standards has been incorporated. One of the fundamental principles of governing family relations in the Republic of Croatia was introduced in the provision of Article 20. Protection, welfare and rights of the child and ensuring that marriages are valid since the provisions prohibiting the use of donated sex cells among blood relatives prevent the possibility of a relationship that is prevented by the Family Law of the prohibition of marriage among blood relatives. Further articles of the Law prescribe restrictions in the procedures of medically assisted insemination aimed at preventing the manipulation of sex cells and the abuse of research procedures that do not serve pregnancy. Article 22 provides for the inadmissibility of the use of medically assisted fertilisation procedures with the purpose of selecting the sex of a future child. Article 23 provides for restrictions relating to the treatment of donated seed or egg cells with the purpose of prohibiting the creation of a donation facility. ... the provision of Article 24 concerning the non-use of male or female sex cells is to exercise the right of the child to know from whom it originates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of Articles 25 and 26 shall prescribe the prohibitions of trade and advertising by sex stations or subsistences and shall highlight the prohibition of replacement motherhood with a view to preventing possible abuse of medical procedures for purposes which are ethically resistant or unacceptable. Article 27 sets out an explicit ban on any procedure intended to create human beings genetically identical to another human being, whether alive or dead and given the definition of a human being genetically identical to another human being. Actually, this is about a ban on cloning. Articles 28 to 32 of the legislative proposal lay down the conditions under which a man and woman may store their sex cells, procedures and storage conditions, the time limit for keeping them, and the mandatory provisions on prohibitions in the medically assisted fertilisation procedure shall be laid down. I'd stop with these arguments, I wouldn't read anymore. In fact, I believe you're all prepared for this debate, that everyone will contribute. What am I gonna say in the end? I would say in the end that this bill of ours, some will have critical observations on these proposals that it does not allow any, any possibility of cloning, allows no possibility of reaching the same relatives someday, marriage and so on. None of the draft laws relating to health care in itself, nor could this bill be properly resolved and all of these abuses unless we had a high-quality legal obligation that institutions dealing with these methods of treatment possess certificates to create a single quality base, a quality register. In the draft draft of this law as proposing articles 43 to 46, we have provided for criminal and protective measures when criminal measures in this area where in private or state institutions dealing with the method of assisted insemination today do not satisfy the damages because we are witnessing that today in Croatia there is a real possibility that what has happened in the recent past is a real possibility of finding a brother and sister in marriage. Therefore, the envisaged safeguard measure for the loss of a license here is introduced in the draft law for work because it will make it clear that the state cares for its citizens and that something like this should no longer happen as we had in Croatia. Therefore, I call on you colleagues and colleagues to make your contribution in the debate, and this Law is actually now being made to understand and that everyone, in accordance with their own degree of responsibility, is to make their contribution to the debate on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37607	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37608	It is incorrect that counterpart Piploic said that the problem, or the need to regulate the donation of an egg cell, occurred when a known public affair broke out. My colleague Piploić, I allow him not to know much about this issue as opposed to us who have been dealing with this problem here at the SDP Club for years, so during the coalition government, it is precisely before the burning of this affair on the basis of the constitutional principle of equality between men and women and when a man is already given the opportunity to donate his, his seed station to the same, that equal opportunity is given to women before they allow medical opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37609	Thank you. And a second correction by Honorable Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37610	Mr. President, there have been several incorrect allegations, but one of those who offered me a correction is that the woman is not jeopardizing anything more life than other treatments. That's completely incorrect. So why do we call this pregnancy a high risk? Why did you mention the low percentages in this pregnancy of successful pregnancy? And I won't deny you. I will work for my colleague and the public to read you just two quotes from two of the most relevant magazines of modern medical literature. The first one's a doctor...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37611	But in the discussion of a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37612	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37613	You will read that in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37614	Here's just one. Only one, if I may say...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37615	In the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37616	Dr. Rebecca Jackson. Well, that light hasn't started to flash yet. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Dr. Rebecca Jackson...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37617	It's not a hide, it's a burn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37618	The Medical Director of the Centre for Women's Health of General Hospital San Francisco has just denied you at the largest study that was made and published in the journal "Ostetic Ginecology" in 2004. And he's talking about a high-risk pregnancy and a great danger to women's health in these procedures. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry for the weather. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37619	Thank you very much. Club, SDP counseling club. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37620	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I think we from the SDP Club would be much happier if today we had a government law on medically assisted insemination, not the law of one club or one representative. First because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made such a law. The creation of the law was initiated during the former government. All experts are gathered together, a multidisciplinary team is gathered because it is a very extensive issue affecting medicine and ethics. So for several years, these people have worked very patiently on this law by applying every provision and health aspect of it, as well as from all other aspects. Such a law has passed all the coordination of this government. He also passed a cabinet session and unfortunately somewhere along the way from the government to the Croatian Parliament, the law was lost. After a few years, we learned that the law was returned to completion in the ministry, however, we cannot take away the impression that the law was returned not because it was ill written but because certain circles in this country were very, very loudly rebelled against the provisions, one part of the provisions of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination and it could be said that a good part of these discussions was unprofessional and that it referred to certain views on how it could not generally be accepted the procedure of medically assisted insemination. So because of these views heard in public, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has most likely withdrawn such a law and it would be good to hear here when the Government thinks to come out with a whole solution to medically assisted fertilisation. It should be said that they came out about half a year ago in public opinion that children who were born medically aided insemination were things. That such children are most often born with severe damages that are simply incorrect and that such a single procedure of medically assisted fertilisation is ultimately a crime and something that should not be done. It is simply something that works in many Western European countries. You're here talking about how what country, some examples of how which country has solved it. In any case, what we have in Croatia is an outdated law that does not correspond with today's achievements of medicine, but also with our needs. So this House has been talking about the problem of natal policy for years. The other day we were talking about a child's allowance here, so we said we had funds that we didn't spend just because we had fewer children born in Croatia, and we simply don't have effective mechanisms to suppress this fall of birth and that we motivate our parents to have more children. That's why it's not clear to me how someone can give up about 20,000 children who have medically helped insemination were born in the last 20 years, so in our medicine, doctors are dealing with medically assisted insemination. So it's about a middle town in Croatia, and it's true that no one has the right to give up, but it's also all those children who can be born with medicine and everything that the medical profession has come to today. One who in any way restrictively determines medically assisted fertilisation in Croatia must know that our parents will surely look for their child in a neighboring country. Parents who can’t have a child let’s say so naturally because of the infertility of one partner or another will not, no one will legally prevent them from exercising their parental rights in a country and from reaching the child. Therefore, since our medicine has indeed made great progress here, I think that Croatia needs a good and quality law that will enable our married couples to use medically assisted fertilisation in Croatia. It should be said that in Croatia today there are an increasing number of couples being treated for infertility. I think the information is somewhere that 15 couples are treated for infertility. It is also an increase in tendency and an increasing number of men suffering from infertility. Many reasons are therefore for, and the causes of infertility. It should also be said that a good part of infertility lies in sexually transmitted diseases, and that is why this problem has been talked about for years in the Assembly, and it is a little bit of a practical matter, which is that our children, as early as possible, are being educated about sexually transmitted diseases as to how to protect themselves and how, therefore, very seriously and responsibly to themselves primarily to get into sexual relations. Therefore, education is also needed here to have as few couples as possible that are treated with infertility if it is caused by certain sexually transmitted diseases. So, as far as this story is concerned, children are born in several cases which are therefore conceived by medically assisted fertilization, such as children who are defective, damaged or anything else. So there's no scientific evidence of that. These children are born with the same risk of damage as all other children are born. Thus, the same should be taken into account in a way that some stories are publicized. Unfortunately, it is also very irresponsible for me to hear from certain associations that are gathering and providing information to parents who are either currently in the medically assisted insemination process or are just about to decide on a pretty big fear that has taken place among people, because they do not have enough information, they do not have enough knowledge, and I certainly agree with you that these people should be well educated, all of which is to know what this process is and therefore so that they do not fear, but of course they know all the risks, or that they are not afraid of something that is placed in the public and therefore not based on certain scientific indicators. And in the end, I would just like to say that we will not support this law just because this law in one part is restrictive and discriminatory. In fact, we believe that the law that has passed the procedure of the Government of Croatia and passed at its session, that this law is much better, that it opens up much better and opens up the possibility that as many people in Croatia as possible will receive and start a child with medically assisted fertilization, because I believe that every newborn child is important and valuable in our country and therefore is not in this law of the same treatment for the donation of male and female so-called sex cells and because of many other things that have been cast out in this law in which they were, therefore, the law that passed the Government's procedure. For this reason, we will not vote for this law and therefore expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will very quickly give the law in a procedure that will be appropriate to all that today is the achievement of medicine, which can lead us to this number of couples, but according to the trend in medicine, that therefore an increasing number of couples will have problems with infertility, to ensure that these people have the possibility of having their child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37621	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37622	It is incorrect that the same risk in children is conceived by this method as for any other child. Two studies, by the way. First, Lancet 2002. Our study suggests that children started with IVF have an increased risk of developing neurological disorders, especially cerebral paralysis. Second quote. In the Australian study 8.6% of children started with IVF had greater birth defects, twice as much as in the control group, Paediatric... 2002. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37623	Thank you very much. Now they'd interrupt the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination. It is next on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37625	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The law on medically assisted insemination I think should be called medically assisted insemination, is a very complex legal act in which, in addition to medically there are a whole series of legal, social and ethical problems and, as a rule, in many countries, such laws have been passed for years and decades. It is similar in Croatia. Our profession, a medical profession that deals with medically assisted fertilisation, has been very well and quality-monitoring for some 20 years and not to monitor but also to advance in professional knowledge and new scientific knowledge, but the legislative regulation lags behind and hinders the development of this area or by someone's views justifiably stops it. As a result, the time has matured for Croatia to pass the Law on Medical Aided Insemination in order to prevent all abuses and finally reach a consensus on many issues. Unfortunately, this is also a political issue. I am saying this from the experience of other countries because because of the different worlds that intertwine in every society there are radical views on one side liberal, on the other hand conservative which are incompatible to one another and the law of one state must be compromise and it must be as possible to please all. That is why this law has been passed in Croatia for a long time, and I myself have been involved in its adoption for the last year and a half days, and this is the continuation of the work and former government that has gathered the profession. We modified their conclusions and in the form of first reading that law passed this esteemed House. However, as a result of the different remarks, he entered into a wide debate that will result in soon and possibly another reading, as well as a third reading. So this bill comes to us in this interface between the first and second readings, and in some ways I can say it's good that he came to encourage us to all speed up the resolution of that main law. But I don't think it answers all the questions that have been raised in public debates so far in terms of the law that is in the parliamentary procedure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, for example. in this law, this bill does not address the issue of the application of medically assisted insemination to women who are neither in the marriage nor in the extramarital community a number of questions about the storage and storage of seed egg cells, the way of the records, the rights to insight into the records may be resolved in a slightly simpler way because the issues are very, very complex. The lack of this proposal is the overall approach to this problem. The text is full of definitions that actually fall into the textbooks of the profession, and they wouldn't really belong in the law. For example, it is homologous insemination, which is heterologous insemination, Articles 5 and 6. The following definitions and types of medically assisted procedures shall be followed by Article 7. Some definitions contain deadlines to be discussed at least, such as in Article 5, which, during the course of treatment before treatment, determines the medically assisted fertilisation for the marriage community for one year of treatment and for the extramarital three, which are uniformly uniform. So the question arises whether it is a consensus and whether it is possible to achieve it at all. In this law I repeat, welcome to encourage a whole series of debates and to speed up the adoption of laws in a organisational sense, it is proposed that the entire process of medically assisted insemination is supervised by the Ministry of Health and also managed by the state registry. At the same time, the register is also conducted in institutions that will have the authority to carry out this activity. One and the other registers state by law a whole series of elements that must be guided and they are not harmonised and most of them match. I believe and believe that the register should be unique and that it should be strictly defined in order to be able, in the years following this medical act, to examine exactly what happened and to have a precise record. For example, the data to be kept by the state register is Article 40 and the register is Article 39. These data are consistent with some 80% of the elements to be guided. They are listed very inaccurately, even vaguely in view of language. For example, in point 7 of the articles referred to above, the register contains data on the bank of sexual cells. So it's not even linguistically clear what it is... It was likely necessary to say that it contained information about everything that the sex cell bank contains or something. So it's pretty vague. What will be entered into the register should be determined by means of a sublegal act, so the regulation. You can't go into such detail in law because then you steal these mistakes and break up the whole problem. It should have been said that the ministry of resolution would have determined what and how to enter the register and set a time limit for the adoption of such a rule. Then it would be cleaner and I think that part of the law would be more acceptable. And otherwise, it should be said that the law is without any sublegal act, and this problem is actually filled with the need for sublegal acts because so many things need to be more precisely defined which is impossible in the law that they should, I will not exaggerate but a dozen or close to that number of sublegal acts, which is why the law is superficial and indeterminate. What I would like to say is that perhaps too many powers are given to a bioethical commission that must be part of, or a representative, for example. in the destruction of sex cells which, of which the donor has given up, etc. And the destruction of such sex cells must therefore be attended by a representative of the bioethical commission and a public notary. I don't know if it's a happy combination that a member of an ethical committee who is certainly not connected to this area to witness the destruction of sex cells. It's a matter of discussion. There are some vague excuses. For example, Article 15 states that a donor of a sex station can donate a cell used for its own fertilization. I don't think the term "own insemination" is very suitable because it doesn't have its own insemination. There's usually fertilization between two people, so maybe it's a little impractical. As far as the different provisions set out by the Proposer are concerned, I think that there is much to be taken into consideration and that much has been solved by one article and the lawyers will know better, enters a much more complex problem. For example, in Article 15, forgive me, Article 14 says that a donor of a sex station has no family legal obligation or to a natural person. So one article deprives him of all those legal rights, obligations, and provisions that have been resolved in many other laws. Can one article derogate everything else? There's the Law of Family, there's the Law of Inheritance and a whole series of laws. It is likely that this too should be resolved more precisely by a sublegal act that would better work it out more precisely. We also believe that criminal provisions are not in line with the Penal Code and that due to all these shortcomings, it is necessary to first highlight the respect of the proposing's efforts, because a great effort has been made, it should be pointed out that this will be a good contribution to the debate of the law which is in the procedure but in this form we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37626	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37627	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. And to be honest, I haven't even thought about talking about it, but hearing some discussions, I think we don't even need to go into this matter right now. Why? A man would dare say, "Let's keep it all the way it was." Croatia has one liberal legislation, when this MPO also means medically assisted fertilisation, and it is certainly good and certainly that practice should be continued in such a way. It is also true that this Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children dates back to 1978. However, this also does not mean that everything that has been adopted in this Parliament or rather said in this assembly during the ex-Socialist Republic of Croatia was bad. One of the probably better laws is the one that we're talking about today, because if it weren't for that he would have changed in 1990, perhaps in 91, 92, and that would not have waited for all these moral, legal, ethical, sociological, etc. The dilemmas start to debate only in 2005. And therefore, gentlemen of the suggestors, Mr. Pipplitch, I have no doubt in your good intentions, absolutely believe that, but I don't think you still need to engage in that. This matter we'll all agree, it's an extremely slippery area. First of all, we have to count on thousands and thousands of parents, mothers, so the fathers who have children in this way, and therefore should have consideration for thousands and thousands of people who are among us today, who are thus to begin. For we shall all agree that there is no greater joy than a child, and a sad house where no crying of children is heard. Therefore, consideration should be given to all those who desire and cannot have children. As for the Church's position, I and that attitude clearly and respect it, I respect that attitude, but I still don't accept their dogma when this assisted fertilization occurs. However, I also think that they have to evolve in some way, I mean here on the Church, in favour of both church communities and children, in favour of society as a whole. Clearly, I'm against cloning the children you were talking about. I am aware on the other hand that despite all the bans and ethical recommendations, medicine is probably working on it today, and in order to deal with some medical enigma, some incurable diseases, etc. And I agree with everyone who keeps mentioning that the dilemmas when this law is based on it are simply huge. Nothing less is with me, nothing less is with you, with the bishop, etc. But medically assisted insemination is one civilizational fluid that no one can question with their rigid attitudes, it must not question the Church by asking how many children have been conceived, how much of a god's human egg has been destroyed and so on. Croatia all agree, it has liberal legislation. In my court it is absolutely fine and therefore this law, there I agree absolutely with Mr. Hebrang, must be in the second and third readings, and it is best in my court to withdraw at this time from the procedure until one consensus is reached how we regulate this matter. Clearly, IDS is against any abuse of this MPO – medically assisted fertilisation. It can't happen that a doctor takes one woman's eggs, inserts it in the other, and so on. What Mr. Piploic was talking about. It means that one woman is carrying without knowing the child of another woman. It's a crime, it should be sanctioned. Doctors must be taken away from their medical licenses next to the prison. As far as this law itself is concerned, other than some concepts offend me, e.g. quality control system, ok. That's clear, we all know what this is about. But that concept of quality control system may be different. In this case, it is not about one "Cimos" or "Oiler" who manufactures some brake assemblies or boats for this or that client, this is about future people and a higher level of dignity to a person should be used in my court in different terms, not a quality control system as if it were quality I do not know steel, aluminium and so on. It simply shouldn't be, because it can't be the end of a card or anything like that. Article 3 is read as follows: That the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation are carried out only in the event that early treatment of infertility is ineffective or when it comes to premature menopause, etc. etc. And that's actually the point. In that case, husband and wife certainly have the right to have a child, or those living in that extramarital community. Article 5(1) shall open one dilemma already. In the process of medically assisted fertilisation, priority is given to the use of their own sex cells, marriages, or extramarital mates, which provide medical help with fertilisation, etc. This is not just about marriage mates and extramarital friends, but about starting to express myself as self - servants. As I'm ordering a child because it's said about, it's preferable to using its own sex cells or some other persons, as it means, I'm ordering myself a suit of this or that brand. It is clear from paragraph 2 of this Article that when a medically assisted fertilisation process is not possible to use its own sexual cells of mates or extramaritals, donated semen or ova of another person, heterogeneous fertilisation, etc. may be used in accordance with Article 6 of that Article. And that's where we come to that fundamental ethical dilemma. So, you can sleep clearly with whoever you want, you can start with whoever you want, but you can also donate means you can have a child as I interpret it from the bank as you want. I don't feel conservative, but in this kind of conception, I kind of have a reserve. In the first part of the speech, I don't know, I may have had a fight with the Holy Roman Catholic Church, but here I'm defending this worldview because there are things that I just shouldn't be experimenting with. Article 7(1) states that literally, homologous and heterogeneous fertilisation is carried out by applying the following medical procedures, etc. And that's what it's all about. It's okay. However, this freedom in Article 6, the choice of a future child from someone we don't know, we don't know, and he himself doesn't know who can "be a father" under quotes and whether a child's obligation to the child can be born the next day, I don't like being honest. A higher someone mentioned him, the Law on Marriage and Marriage, the Law on Inheritance, etc. It suddenly becomes an ethical dilemma that will surely be eternal and to which sooner or later each of us will return. I said, everyone can sleep with whoever they want, they can start a child, but in a way, a man has to follow the man forever, and here someone gives the seed and nothing. Okay, here we have to give written consent, we see, certified by the notebook. But in general, in this dilemma, it's not possible to speak for 15 minutes or I don't know for 10 minutes. And I think every club should get more time because this is life, and before that, I mean, we should still get to one consensus. So, before these procedures are referred to the parliamentary procedure. So, as far as this medically assisted insemination is concerned, that's what IDS is absolutely for, but there are ethical dilemmas that you wouldn't want to participate in if we didn't plead in one extreme, extremely unequivocal way. It's interesting, for example, Article 13. "Sex-cell donors", "gift," "donor", etc. All in all, there's certainly progress and I'm asking for it to go, at least, into the third reading. If there was any abuse of what Mr. Puplić was talking about, please let it be sanctioned. Because there's no greater badness down there than the fact that you've been carrying someone else's baby for nine months. And lastly, so once again I pray that this law goes into third reading or that everything remains what would be best in our court as it was. Article 24 states that in the procedure of medically assisted fertilisation it is not allowed to use mixtures of male, or female sex cells produced by the semen cells of two or more men or egg cells of two or more women. So you can see that the author himself assumes a whole series of abuses, that he is right to talk about it, and that, clearly, he opens up a series of dilemmas to all of us. In one word, all of this needs to be discussed soberly because, behold, it is the matter of the most holy. So, motherhood, fatherhood, child, there's nothing more sacred than that. And so the IDS holds that it would be correct to forward this Law to a second reading, but preferably to come up with a third reading so that all these ethical, legal, sociological, philosophical, I don't know, religious, etc., dilemmas could be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37628	Thank you very much. Proposer, respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37629	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm just here to explain some things so that the Croatian public doesn't actually get the wrong impression, that we stand for everything that colleague Cain was talking about here. On the contrary, all these problems that you are here, and these dangers that you have listed in this bill are offered to resolve. All responsible factors of this society are called upon to approach this extremely slippery area as you say responsibly, fully, respecting those who know it better than we do. The Croatian Parliament is the place where the problem should be highlighted, and invite those who know it much better than us to give a solution to that problem. Therefore, here means no trade, no cloning, no insult to the dignity of life and a threat to the dignity of life of this Law is offered. The right solutions are offered here, the problem is highlighted, the right solutions. Whether they are the best you will determine, that is, determine the waist. But I think the time has matured for the adoption of a law like this and for Croatia, because if the problem is to close our eyes before the problem, then a large number of our mothers, women, wives, daughters, who have a problem like this, will go to neighbouring countries, and there will be no such quality records. And we will actually have a problem again that we may need to answer later, but under much more difficult circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37630	Thank you. HNS-PGS club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37631	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the HNS and PGS, we can agree with Mr. Piplojic in the part where he points to a very old 78 law and the need for laws to be harmonised, updated with the progress of science and particularly biotechnology. However, if, in that case, and with that argument, we look at this bill, then we will see that it does not change or improve much. Practically all of these methods of physical and extra-body fertilization were also known in 78 years. The only newspaper that's been introduced here is essentially cloning. But cloning is not a method of medically assisted insemination. Cloning is a core transfer method. Insemination, we're all already maybe, some of us in years, but we're from theory, and what we remember from practice is that fertilization is essentially an act of connecting male and female sex cells. Thus, surely cloning would have to be excluded from this Law just as those freaks mentioned in Greek mythology would have to be excluded. For reasons because if it is a medically assisted fertilisation then let us really not expect that in a health care facility that is mentioned here we will have such experiments and such opportunities. That's absolutely out of the question. What else do you say? I might be undermining four very significant articles in this proposal of yours. These are Articles 18, 19, 28 and 33. We see that we will probably not accept this bill and that it will not go any further, but certainly that the Government would have to prepare around them exactly what is expected in the future law that will treat this matter. That's the key. What we also haven't heard from Mr. Piplopic, this is a very high-tech matter. Therefore, I believe that even before it goes with the text, the first text, the proposal that goes to first reading must go to professional institutions. I have no doubt that many doctors have helped you prepare this material. However, it would also be good for official professional institutions to obtain an indication of the parts of this Law. It must absolutely be done in such high-profile matter. And clearly, it was useful that data you provided for our neighbouring countries. However, it seems to me that the waist should say first. There are also documents and conventions of the Council of Europe related to this matter, bioethical problems, etc. So, these are, to me, the elements that we have to revolve around. Perhaps I could still help if it happens that, clearly, this Law goes into another reading, that in that case we must certainly correct things very quickly. In this regard, Article 13 mentions "the donor", or "the donor", and mentions only the need for them to be adult or business. I don't think that's enough, definitely not enough. Science and the medical profession have much more parameters to rely on and, in spite of that, you also touch them in Article 18. Therefore, I appreciate that you may be able to consume yourself through this, but then we need to set something a little different in Article 13. Article 18 states that any case of heterogeneous insemination will be carried out only when the consent is given by the National... Trust. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with that, but then let's not talk a lot about the criteria in the opening statement when we don't actually have the criteria, but the Commission will have the criteria. And I agree with Mr. Hebrang that then through the sublaws we have to regulate this matter very detailedly, because we will certainly make a mistake if we don't. Then, in the donation of seeds, or ova, in Article 13, it says that each can be the most twice in the life of a donor. And Article 21 says that a sex - cell donor can only be used for the birth of two children. I think that this second criterion is more important and more difficult to do, it can be a several times seed donor, but if it's regulated with two kids as the ultimate number, then you have to find some way to reconcile that text. In Article 23, it is completely unclear to me that you were thinking about a donation, because I think that article 18 already consumes it, article 18 is talking about heterologous fertilisation, and then it is evident that the national bioethical commission that will regulate this issue is, and we do not have to stress it here in particular. In Articles 16 and 25, pardon Articles 16 and 25 are also partially excluded for the same reasons. Article 27 of I already said cloning certainly does not fall into the form of medically assisted insemination, so I would not mention it here. In Article 28, I think it's a good proposal but then it's in conflict with your other proposals where you give very broad powers to this national bioethical commission. Any new method that could be introduced, which would be used, would be based on the attitude of the national bioethical commission, whether or not clearly introduced into medical practice in Croatia, which is good, but then let's not say that we want to get into the details of this Law. We can neither go into details but in this way we should try to bridge some future discoveries and not regularly return to the assembly with new additions and changes. I can also continue to list, Article 31, I don't know why you've given him so much space regarding the transfer of sex cells from one health institution to another, it can always happen that because of the reconstruction in one institution there is such an obligation and the possibility that this is a technical matter and that this state registry should be able to solve these problems so that we are at no time in doubt where individual cells of individual donors are located. For the purposes of Article 32, points 2, 3 and 4 are also practically excluded already in Article 18. In Article 36, you are talking about specialists who might be working in this sphere. I can agree with some of those specializations, but I would disagree with that relatively long experience you're asking these people to do. If you work in my branch, then you will know that when you send a man to professional training in Germany, Austria or anywhere to learn a technique he will teach that technique for two, three months no longer and then I really assure you that he is the ultimate competent to do so in us, he does not have to wait for some 5-year period to take part in such a team. In Article 32, I may have failed to say that again I was not clear on the text “the human embryo used for therapeutic and medical cloning. ” Why is it that a trap for cloning those two expressions obviously something is wrong with that part of the text, doesn't go together that part. Here's what I could do, and I probably wouldn't do much to help, but my general impression is that your intensity was good, I would, however, really suggest to the government that it can be used in part and your proposals, but to certainly turn to the profession, that the profession should prepare that first text, and only then can we expect a good excess law. I would, however, now that this is the first reading we can clearly give ourselves a bit of a break and in a broader context interpret all that we have listened to in the course of today. We have also spoken within the framework of the previous law and within this law about the significant components of our demographic policy in Croatia. You know I can agree that VAT is important, I can agree that medically assisted production is important but colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest with demographic policy we will only then be able to launch if we politically support investment in employment, production and export. It's the primary demographic policy. All of this is a clear policy set for certain groups, important but let's not turn away from the basic problem that we have in Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37632	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37633	Thank you, Mr. President. This proposal for a law on medically assisted, in fact called wrongly assisted insemination, you should have, when you prescribed the correct copy of the aided fertilisation, the representative so Frana Piplovic is primarily to refuse and not to let in another reading. For what? 30. Nine. In 2004, the government presented an excellent project that had begun, and here's what Dr. Hebrang said what happened to this very bill that passed the government's procedure, so it was done for years, as it eventually requires such a problem and ended in the term of this government, when the government was convinced it had considered it at its session, but suddenly mysteriously instead of regular procedure was the Government – Parliament. However, he disappears. The organizations have been persistent here and have been searching for a mysteriously missing proposal from the government, which is almost unobstructed. However, he was approached by counterpart Piploic, he made the effort, and praise would have been worth the effort if he had written the government's proposal completely, then we would have really something to discuss here. What did my colleague Piploic do? In order to make a little difference, however, and in the end to listen to the public in some way, so those who were in favour of or against, uncritically seeking to please each other, did not above all agree with the Constitution, so this Law is contrary, in direct contrast to the whole series of our other laws, with the Family Law, the Law on Gender Equality at the end of the day, it is restrictive on both rights users and choices and methods and types of procedures of medically assisted insemination. And he's talking about not knowing the criminal dogmatics. Our criminal law has a whole head entitled Crimes against Human Health, there is a criminal offence of illegal transplanting of parts of the human body, so when this Government's proposal is also contained in this provision, however, there are no criminal provisions, criminal provisions that but in terms of criminal provisions and not those concerning criminal incrimination, which is then the place finally in the Penal Code and do not seek them under special legislation. So it's something that is opposed to our already accepted finally established criminal dogmatics to find crimes in criminal law. In fact, very concretely, the proposer himself says that the implementation of this law will not need to provide additional resources in the state budget to address the complete lack of understanding of matter. This claim is therefore completely unfounded because according to the current circumstances it is complete, nor according to the present circumstances is an entirely inconclusive quality control system according to which ISO standardisation is always the renewal and authorisation of the work of an authorised health institution within two years of the date of entry into force of this Act. In fact, you probably won't remember that because you didn't follow this problem, if you did, you would have looked back at it that a year and a half ago the Roda Association itself launched a humanitarian action to collect equipment in medically assisted laboratories and that, at the same time, the laboratory leaders, both in Zagreb and Split, made it clear that equipment needed at a minimum value of 2 million kuna, so that they could continue to operate under the existing law at all. Of course they didn't dare talk about any... Standards, so, because that's significant, would be significantly higher and costing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The time frames of equipment currently being used in our hospitals, in the expansion, have missed multiple deadlines, everywhere in Europe and the world uses these equipment for five years, with us over 15 years of age. Since the beginning of 2004 until today, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance has not had enough money to buy a single piece of equipment to laboratories of medically assisted fertilisation, so that we can talk at all about such a claim that still extends a particular circle of users and rights, argue that the implementation of this Act will not require additional funding. On the contrary, in most centres due to high pressure that patients, high patient pressure exists and the problem of lack of professional staff and lack of space. Furthermore, something that really falls into the eyes and which is in direct contrast to what I have mentioned with the constitutional provision of gender equality is a provision where according to this Bill of Law, women who enter the procedure cannot be older, please be more than 42 years old, and egg donors 38 years old. Why didn't you put such a restriction on men, at least as seed cell donors? So, in the world, not a single law, nor one that is considered the most restrictive although it is very simplified, I mean a position like the Law of the Republic of Italy because exactly if you follow a little parallel legislation then you will see that a very, very similar, very similar proposal as our Government had, now I don't know where this Law is, but it certainly passed the government's procedure, is right in front of the Italian Parliament. Therefore, neither the existing Law of the Republic of Italy has such a provision that the right to medical assistance, or the right to health care, deprives a person based on age censorship. In addition, the agecensus is intended for only one sex, which is absolutely, absolutely unbearable. After all, didn't you hear anything about Professor Fleischman? For 15 years now, the institution has been performing medically assisted insemination and where there are known cases, they have really excited the public because women in menopause were having babies, first it appeared in Sicily and later it was also in northern Italy. I think only the profession can determine under what circumstances and what form of medical assistance to a person is necessary and meaningful, the restrictions can indeed be placed only in the rules themselves and in the right to proceedings covered by the State Health Insurance Office. And these restrictions are changed precisely depending on the budget that the state has and is worth for all areas of medicine and so on for the IPO. In this area, for example, State Health Insurance can limit the number of free procedures and the age until which citizens have the right to free procedures. However, legally to medical assistance in the exercise of this reproductive law cannot in any case be restricted or prohibited if we wish to be followers of our own Constitution and other laws. Article 12 of Article 12 also makes major remarks, which is poorly prescribed in the Government's proposal, so the proposal itself is to refer to, or see, how it was in here, the government's proposal so far, or the draft proposal. Article 7 and 13 of the Proposer does not provide at all for the possibility of giving the asset of the rest of the... a pair that has given up the burden of own use or provides for any kind of medical procedure in Article 7 or such a couple in Article 13 does not propose as donors of sex cells. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was the donation of the embryo that remained from the procreation of the couple that gave up its own procreation that would allow parenting to be both infertile and saved from destruction. And why destroy cells and embryos that can be frozen and what is the potential of having a child. Why the process of destroying genetic material and seas, i.e. to be a member of a national bioethical commission which is, in fact, the advisory body of the Ministry of Health and not a witness to the operational activity of a hospital department. It is certainly some kind of administrative operational responsibility that a three-member commission should do, as proposed in the Government's proposal or draft Government proposal. The composition of the National Bioethical Commission is 20 people, such a body is certainly not the task of making operational administrative decisions. And why the ban on therapeutic cloning, therapeutic cloning has already been authorised in two European countries, in the UK, as well as Switzerland. However, the government is just saying when it explains, even though we had different interpretations that this proposal did not come to the Parliament because it was directed to the bioethical commission to make it manifest. Although we had the opportunity to hear from the Minister of Health, however, that it was something else, that he would listen to any public and that this new proposal would not be too conservative or too liberal. All in all, we expect this government proposal, and surely if the government had come up with this proposal, we wouldn't be spending time on one much worse law here today, actually, which is just a bad copy of the good government's original. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37634	Thank you very much. I owe one explanation, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Medical Supported Insemination came to the usual procedure, in its own time to the President of the Croatian Parliament, to me, but after a few days, the Government withdrew the bill in writing from the procedure with an explanation that it intended to complete it. That's it, please, the promoter who answered. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. In 15.43 it was time to apply for 10 minutes of discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37635	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be a very short colleague, Ingrid, and she encouraged me to come in first. I will start from this last one, as far as spending time in this Croatian Parliament is concerned, so much of that time has been spent in vain and without effect, therefore, I would not like you to point out only if this is in vain, and I think it is not in vain, that this creation of one necessary climate is both in the Croatian Parliament and in the society for the adoption of such a law. Here, at the beginning of my presentation, I said that this is a very complex problem, that it exceeds the power of one individual, that it is looking for the smartest, most capable, most responsible people in this country to deal with this problem, that I pointed out the importance of this problem, that man came near to God as the concept of life and as the concept of the creator, therefore not everyone here can scratch and do what he wants. You're looking for a really maximum responsibility here. I actually called to say I didn't, I didn't prescribe anything. This Law was made by experts, the same medical experts from the University of Medicine in Zagreb. So people who know the profession. I'm a sociologist, a socialist. I could only talk about this problem from a point of view as a sociologist. I don't dare talk about it any different. So this is what the waist was doing. I wouldn't underestimate the profession as well as that first proposal you were talking about did the same profession and that proposal for which reason, he was withdrawn. I don't know why, but it would be really smart to listen to each other and all of them, to listen to the smart ones in our society, so we'll certainly be better off. As far as I was concerned, if I knew right at first that it was about the law that was made with the former government, I would, I would have read that law, I would have taken it, and then I might have done some comparative analysis, but I didn't. But in any case, I appreciate the work of those people who did it before. I would ask you to appreciate the work of the same people who did this. This, if they wanted a promotion, they'd come here for this pay phone instead of just trying to help. To do good for this people, for this country, for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37636	Thank you very much. I probably can't come to you for a pay phone when they're not MPs. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with Mr. Piplovic that one law should be passed. And that's less and less everything I agree with Mr. Piplovic. The law is 27 years old, it's inadequate and should bring in a more modern one to solve this unsolved, this unsolved area. But there's a strange way to make legal proposals and this. Here we have heard from the President of the Parliament a little earlier that the government has prepared a bill for half a year. Those who had the chance to see him, so the government adopted him. At her session, the government adopted him and directed him to the Parliament. And then she pulled it. Those who read the bill say he's great. That it is the basis for a serious debate and for such a law to be passed with minor corrections and amendments. But there's the government pulling a good bill. Why? Well, there's been a public reaction. First of all, the Catholic Church reacted. She stood up strong against medically assisted insemination. A lot of things could have been heard in the public debate over the bill. That children were born by the aided insemination of things, that they were abnormal children, that they had health problems. So when you add what Dr. Bukovic said about this, then things get tragical dimensions. And remember, Dr. Bukovic, when he got involved in the debate, said that the Bible is the best medical book to be able to address the issue of medically assisted insemination, completely forgetting that Jesus was conceived in an unconventional way, not medically assisted but spiritually assisted insemination. Dr. Bukovic, like many others, mostly talked about the good legislative proposal, and that the government would not encounter any unwanted criticism over the good legal proposal, she withdrew her proposal. And now he camps there in government drawers, he probably died of natural causes and probably doesn't even show up in front of this Parliament anymore. But the government doesn't rest. However, the government does not rest, and it does not rest as we can see from our colleague Piploic. Realizing that the area of medically assisted insemination is actually a minefield to which it is reluctant to go, the government is looking for a volunteer. And he finds it in the person of Mr. Piplopic, so now he's going out to that minefield as the bearer of this project, and the government is counting on it like this: so if a mine explodes better than under Piplopic than under us. Because I don't see any other reason why the government wouldn't send a good bill to the Parliament. Well, let's see how Piploic has his time, and then we can see what we can do next. Well, if the Turks hadn't thought of the misery, Mr. Piplić wouldn't be giving the exact same bill, because then the thing would be obvious. So it's not prescribed consistently, it's changed something in it. Well, when you keep changing, then we find things in it. Thus, Article 20 states: "Donated semen cells must not be used for fertilisation if the donor and the woman receiving the semen cells are related to blood, among which marriage is not allowed." All right. But the article goes on to say, "The donated egg cells must not be fertilized with the semen cells of a man who would not be allowed to marry a donor because of blood relatives." That's the same thing. Now if Mr. Piploić, whether Mr. Piploić copied one and then changed the words twice, or if he wrote two paragraphs of the same article to make sure that it would be so, it is difficult to figure out, but it should not be found in one serious legal proposal. Then Article 30 states: "A man and a woman who, according to the knowledge or experience of medical science, threatens to become infertile for health reasons, can, with free consent in writing, store their seeds or egg cells for their own later use." So please explain to me how a man will use his own stored semen station? How? Why would he need his own seed cells for his own use? Well, then, Article 37. Look, all persons involved in the conduct of medically assisted insemination have the right because of their ethical, religious, or moral views or beliefs to appeal to the call of conscience and to refuse to participate in this process. So those involved have the right to refuse participation. Well, I guess they have the right to refuse to participate before they participate. They have the right to refuse to participate simply. Don't take part. It's OK to have the right not to participate, but I can't refuse to participate those who already participate. Look, now that would be a lot to find. I wouldn't want a colleague of Pipplić to make fun of here or the ones he says this is, if they were preparing this. I doubt they're the same experts who worked for the government. I doubt it. Because they wrote it right. So I suggest that Mr. Piplopic withdraw this, that he withdraws this so that it will not be withdrawn once again and again in the second reading, and that we do not waste both time and energy on such a legal proposal, and I call on the Government to send this good bill here to the Parliament and to discuss it here and finally adopt it. Because this area needs regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37638	Thank you very much. It's okay, we could all refrain from psychic and prophetic words, because none of us are psychics, or prophet, and we shouldn't even joke about it, in my opinion, because the level of this debate is going down. Now it's Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37639	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well you have noticed, and one wonders when preparing to manifest a law, when studying it, prepare yourself in the context of discussions that are being held on how to speak. Whether to speak with regard to the articles of the law or to conduct a general political debate that does not have a level that this House should have. In fact, by respecting what I said on the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, I welcome Mr. Piplopic's intention to engage in this important area and probably his intention to speed up perhaps the law-making process that will strictly and precisely define this controlled medical procedure, to live in a professional, ethical and legal framework. But it's my personal opinion that I said on the board, and I repeat it now, that this whole matter, with all due respect to the MP, is beyond the possibility of the promoter being just one, not a club, not a club of representatives, one club, but one representative. Because this important law is of multiple importance and, reading it from article to article, it has at least 17 articles that are difficult to accept. But it could come out like this. They are unacceptable because of the social framework because this bill's proposal is different from what the citizens of our country have largely declared, and I mean their worldview. It's falling off the protection of the child's rights, because it doesn't even allow the child to know who he's genetically from. It recedes because of legal gaps, repels due to inappropriate penalties, declines due to the lack of phasing out of method, problem of commissions, and as I have pointed out over a whole series of things, and I agree with Mr Cain and this article 6 on heterologous fertilisation is a reflection of Christian bioethics. Yeah, it's falling off because this one, I wouldn't say small, but a small number of countries can get into a situation not exactly like that, but let's just say it's a situation in Great Britain when, in the year 97, 98, 750 thousand children were made, and only 35,000 children were born. But since the debate has already been under way and many have declared that this law will vote against this law, I will also join them all. First because of what is written and proposed in it, but at the same time keeping in mind Murphy's law, one of Murphy's laws says, "If things can go badly, they'll certainly go wrong." So that's where they don't go, I join those who vote to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37640	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić's turn. He's gone. Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37641	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I appreciate the efforts of the Democratic Centre and Mr Piplojic, who recognized the problem of infertility, which is large in Croatia and elsewhere in the world and according to medical reports from day to day. Of course, the efforts they have made in preparing this proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation are great. There are 12 chapters, 49 articles, and more items. The law included all participants in the process which, participants in the process of medically assisted insemination, all their obligations, all their rights, and all the consequences of non-compliance. I find it very difficult to use legal terminology, but I will try to say it right from the start, join my colleagues, and say that I call for a conscience that I can't really vote for the bill that was sent to my first reading for both educational and religious and ethical reasons. In my 25-year paediatric practice, I had more cases and adopted children and children born after medically assisted insemination. Of course, you must always agree that it is not easy with biological children especially in some of their developmental periods when they are very vulnerabilities, when they are very sensitive and when parents expect it to be impossible. And now we can put ourselves in a position to deal with these children, when they find out the real truth at that time. I am well aware of all the psychological burdens and all the psychic seas of parents who have become parents with the help of homologous fertilization. I refer to homologous fertilisations and they had great difficulties, because they attributed each phenomenon to pathological events and associated each phenomenon with the way they were fertilized, with the way they were conceived. It killed them almost all the growing up of their children. I didn't take care of them later, so I don't know how it got any further. And then sometime at a time during puberty, adolescence is the time when cards must be put on the table and when the truth must be revealed, when it must be told to the child who his biological father is and where he comes from. I know that more than 90% of the kids I had in my practice wanted to know that, and I know that it's nights and days in such families if I can't compare the situation to a psycho movie. It was horrifying that they were going through everything, and I, as their pediatrician, was involved in everything. By reading this code, I've always thought about these familiar cases and gentlemen when it's hard who works by the law. From us and everyone when it's hard to do that to our emotional impulse, to feel like we should. No one thinks of the law. Although the law provides for psychological testing and more ino, ino and thus testing and says that only mentally stable and strong married couples can access medically assisted fertilisation. What about the donors, and what about the donor, and what about the donor? Who tested them and who saw if they were mentally stable, whether they were in a psychic sense and a status similar to that. No one asked them. And I ask you nicely who any normal would give his seed and no longer know about, whether it's a seed station or an egg station and never finds out in life about the fate of the same and yet it devours the worm of manipulation, a worm of doubt because manipulations are always possible. And we are witnessing these greatest manipulations that have been made public in our country. And I must say that I did not read that there was a greater tragedy and greater manipulation in the history of Croatian medicine. Although in the end it was all stated by law, and the law was from 1978. And the law approved the donation of seed cells, and for that there was even a bank. But at that time in 1978, medicine and medical science and medical technology didn't go that far and they didn't know, they knew how to donate an egg cell, and they knew how to do it, although the law did not cover it. I witnessed myself in the late '80s because I was in the course of a postgraduate study in endocrinology and listening to a professor on medically assisted insemination. And when he was offered, I don't know what he said to a colleague who sat with us in the hall and attended the same postgraduate study and said, "You look young, you look physically healthy, will you go to the next room and store your seeds?" I mean, we've all been amazed. Our teacher seemed to store the seed as if he had told him to go to the next room, take off your jacket, maybe someone will come after who needs that jacket. It was so simple for him, and no one, I say in the law writes tested anyway, I didn't see that my colleagues were offered any testing before they specifically and specifically directed him into the next room if they were willing to store their seeds. And I see again that indeed the sublimeness of paternity and the sublime motherhood is so banalized, and I don't think they deserve it. It's processes, it's, it's something that can't be so banalized, it can't be so simplified. And then we ask ourselves, "Where is the child?" Who thinks of that child? What about the baby's soul? What about the child's psycho? What about that emotional part of our body that when it betrays us we can't transplant it, we can't replace it anymore? And that part also carries a somatically ill organism and a somatically healthy organism. And for all these reasons, I have been able to help parents in the marriage community to overcome either anatomical or functional obstacle and become parents after all possible and failed ways. I'm very supportive of that. What about the extramarital community? As foreseen in this law, the three-year-old extramarital community, a stable extramarital community, says. Gentlemen, what a stable extramarital community it is, because if the participants of such a community were stable then they wouldn't be afraid to register and join the community. And now that you've entrusted them with such a community child and that child has no parents tomorrow, when that child, what are we going to do? Who's asking what's up with that? Who's asking what's up with that kid? And then they show up one time crying to a child they need both parents. And then these humanitarians show up who take terrible care of their children and spread out their children to both their parents. In addition, those who know how to make good use of it appear so faster with jumbo posters, with propaganda material, and good at it and profit. And I think there really is hypocrisy. On the one hand, we legalize what is against nature so that someone else can earn money. And for these and their reasons, I really can't support this law. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37642	Thank you very much. We have one correction and one replica. Here's Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's first correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37643	It's incorrect that Mrs. Prosecution said it's illegal to take an egg to reproduce. Our Penal Code in its Article 242 speaks of the illicit transplantation of parts of the human body. And from this aspect when in 1978 it was true that it was, or medically possible, but the allowed analogy of Mrs. Under Criminal Law did not cross doctors to exactly the same as both the Constitution and equality of men and women perform medically assisted insemination and in this way. Donating egg cells. However, in front of the Criminal Court and perhaps the current case you are likely to refer to speaks of whether it was consent or not. That's all it is. But from the point of view of criminal law, there is no question whether or not something is allowed. However, if something is allowed for a man, then it is allowed for a woman. The penal code doesn't know if it's a woman or a man. It says who. It's just impersonal. And that applies to both the man and the woman. So I can relieve you of your dilemmas. So from that criminal-legal aspect, medically perhaps that, according to the rules of medical, ethics and whatever rules they follow. However, from a criminal legal point of view, it is entirely irrelevant. So the important thing is whether someone did it with permission or without permission.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37644	Thank you very much. You also have a replica of Mrs. Ingrid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37645	Yeah. Mrs. Prosecution wonders and says, "What is it that a stable extramarital community says, if it were stable, then they would register." In 1978, therefore, for 27 years, the equality of the marriage and the extramarital community exists in our legal legislation. So you don't need to be surprised at the extramarital community when our law has been known for so many years. But I'm surprised to you that you, as a great Catholic, are simply calling a marriage sacrament a registration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37646	Let's not build a big or little Catholic, so it might go on who's in something big as a kid. Well, I think that should be avoided in our parliamentary debates. ... And the answer to Mrs. Lucia Chikesh's replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37647	Mrs. Anticevic, I know Mrs. Anticevic that there are extramarital communities, but Mrs. Anticevic does not believe them. And I didn't stand out anyway. So my belief is my belief and you have no right to touch it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37648	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I can really say that I appreciate Mr. Piplovic's efforts, but I conditionally support the proposal for his medically assisted insemination. And I stand for it, of course, that goes in two more readings. I also believe that in the interest of its citizens, the government should begin to respect other proposals and good intentions of these laws wherever they come from. The government is not referring to its bill, we heard today from the President of the Parliament that she had writtenly withdrawn it. And he gives every other law a negative opinion. And, of course, it is evident that some laws must change and not only to comply with EU legislation but because of ourselves, because we have problems with functioning in all segments, especially those in health care. We are aware that health care in many segments is not working, and of course it is mostly because of money. But today, unfortunately, we have opportunities to see that we also have problems with the staff, which is the worst thing that can happen to us when you need to see a doctor for any reason without being sure that you will receive adequate health care. One such law on medically assisted insemination certainly needs to, but I wonder what our concern for pregnant women and children is after such insemination. For example, in Croatia pregnant women can't get a search that allows them to see a chromosonic picture of the baby before birth, which is very important for those with high risk of Down syndrome, which only confirms our moral and material status in society. It is also devastating to know that pregnant women cannot be legally guaranteed the right to prenatal care, as the ministry says there is currently no money to address the problem. Therefore, future mothers from Croatia are going to examine Slovenia where they pay 250 to 700 euros to make sure they have a healthy child. It should be explained to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the state's concern about the health of the fetus is a real and true problem in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the European Union, where we will arrive sooner or later, amniocentesis is performed between the 16th and 18th weeks of pregnancy. We should therefore form a laboratory at every major centre in the Republic of Croatia, because it is not a political issue but a civilizational fluid and a civilization issue. In my opinion, it is not a problem in the very Law on Medical Aided Insemination, but the problem is that in the absence of such a law we are courting a church in some way. Maybe we shouldn't pass a law like this, maybe we should look back at some models that turned out to be good. One of those is a model in the Czech Republic. Since the Czech Republic is not too far from Croatia and for the price of the IPO in the Czech Republic is not high, somewhere around 2,000 euros, our couples are advised to go to a respected university clinic in Prague, of course our worse list, Prof. Dr. Tonko Mardice. Maybe the only thing that's chronologically through the law passed by the Czech Republic and what's proven to be good through application, maybe we should paint a model like that. In 1996, such a law was passed in the Czech Republic, donations and sperm and egg cells and embryos were allowed. There is no artificial insemination of women without partners, the success is somewhere at 35% and is performed annually somewhere around 10,000 such out-of-body fertilization procedures. Unlike Croatia, where the border is 38 years old, in the Czech Republic 40 and women have the right to three free procedures, outside of physical insemination. It is born somewhere around 3% of children or 2,700 of those means 10 thousand that are carried out by artificial fertilization and of course costs 2,000 euros and the traps are kept until the couple decides otherwise. Therefore, it might be good to miss this law in the next reading and to include all these doubts presented by the MPs in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37650	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After a few discussions of which there were some really good ones, I do not see that I would significantly improve my debate, or contribute to this issue, so I will actually give up the debate, and in fact very briefly refer to some principles, and in relation to this issue. So since this issue is medically assisted insemination one very complex, demanding, then of course we can only view it systematically and thus regulate it, it means by law. And therefore my support for the legal solution, and to you, Piplovic, congratulations on one material that I would say good material. Of course there's a lot in it that I don't agree with. But it would be hypocritical, just because it's unacceptable to me, I don't know either from a moral, ethical, or any other attitude, to reject it entirely. And otherwise, when we talk about this problem and this issue, then we're a little bit on the verge of actually falling into me, I'd say, being attacked by a hypocritical one. On the one hand, we declare certain questions morally, ethically, and even do not know religiously unacceptable, and on the other hand we ourselves fall into much more worthless matters. I'm talking about life, and I'm talking about existing laws that we have and that violates a lot of things, that I'm not talking about the right to abortion, etc. On the other hand, the complete rejection of that attitude, therefore both moral and ethical and ultimately religious, and on behalf of the claim for the right of others is also one trap until at the same time we consume it ourselves and do not use it but simply advocate it. So here I see about what the fate of this law is. So he obviously will not go to the end of this proposal, so I believe that there can be one very important contribution to the future debate in the government's proposal and my contribution is so much that I really appreciate this material and that it should be taken very seriously into consideration in the drafting of the final law that the government will pass. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37652	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37653	Here is colleague Bagariæ, for religious reasons, which is unacceptable, because this law speaks of donation, so the donation of egg cells and again regulates and donates male sex cells, and this donation has been existing for 28 years in our legal legislation, and until then, until such a proposal has appeared that allows women to do the same, it has not been questionable for you from the religious point of view of anyone else, so please, I don't understand such logic, so I don't understand the secret of such faith that would allow this kind to happen, and now I wouldn't, so please give me an explanation with the approval of the Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37654	I don't need Vice President's approval, because I don't know what he's going to say in the replica, but he can answer you, and he doesn't have to. Here, you have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37655	Of course, it's a pleasure to answer, but I must admit that my colleague disappointed me because I noticed that he was actually ignoring me while I was talking. I think it would be an honor if you'd listened to me, obviously you didn't because I didn't say that. So my answer is that I didn't say what you said. I've been completely discussing something else. The principles where I have touched in principle that something is unacceptable for someone because it is unacceptable for one reason or another, and also acceptable for one reason or another. So I said that we could fall into temptation by what I say, this sin of hypocrisy, you understand? Therefore, I did not say that I was inadmissible because of the donation. If you're asking me what's unacceptable to me in this law, specifically in this law, that's not it. But it's unacceptable to me that they're actually obsessing, I don't know, and the embryo is a living organism, they're destroying it. Here, let's say, since you're asking me that. That's unacceptable to me. Thank you very much. Not donations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37656	Thank you very much. Now probably the proposing's representative wants to? Here you go. Mr. Frano Piplojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37657	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will thank all of you who participated in this debate. More or less all the debates are, with which I do not have to agree as a proposing again, but so far a very important issue. They realized that there was a problem and that the problem had to be solved. Now, unless this is the path of solving through our proposal, there are probably other people who also have responsibility for this issue and for this problem. Here, a colleague of Dorotea mentioned that the government did not make its proposal, and on any other proposal it answers, gave a negative opinion. If this was one before the debate in the Croatian Parliament, because it seems to me that there has been no such debate in this House so far, then the objective has been achieved. There was a public debate. All those who care about solving this issue will see that this is an important issue, that not everyone can participate in it in a way that achieves some political points. Here we come to life, to the question of life, and there must be the maximum responsibility of all those, all segments. So also doctors, bio-ethics, churches as an integral part of society, lawyers, sociologists. So, all those who actually have a responsibility to their profession. But according to that, thank you all. I believe that the goal has been achieved and that Croatia will soon have a law that will regulate this issue. Whether this law will be similar to the Czech or Italian model, Austrian or German, it is for people who will suggest and give a better solution. Sure. Thank you to those who have supported some solutions here from this proposal. The people who wrote this had the courage to go out with this proposal and I put this proposal out here and tried to give you a heads-up. As responsible men and women, you put your suggestions on that, on our bill, and then we'll see. I guess someone in another attempt might give something better quality. I'm sorry that my colleague Stazic isn't here, who mentioned a syntagma that I actually went out to the minefield. I'm happy to respond to that minefield. I know this is a complex problem, to seek responsibility, expertise, etc., but if, after this date, Croatia receives the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. And when our fellow citizens and fellow citizens no longer go to neighbouring Slovenia, go to Hungary, go to the Czech Republic and other countries, I think my exit to the minefield has won the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37658	Thank you very much, Mr. Pipplitch. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37659	Second, the proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination, P.Z. No. 363. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation proposed by MP Frano Piploić is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working authorities. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion has been reached with 89 votes in, 7 against and one abstention. 7 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37660	And we move on to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War - Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club, first reading, P.Z. No. 269. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives; the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Mato Arlović, MP and vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37661	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We still feel it is necessary to further explain this amendment to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. That is why it is necessary and it is necessary to do so for several reasons. From formal to content, from constitutional rights through social, cultural, so if you want civilizations about the democratic achievements of modern democracy. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues, we all know that this is the year, 60th or 60th anniversary of the anti-fascist movement in Europe and the world. That this anti-fascist movement has done much in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that it has practically contributed to establishing the foundation of the state sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, as it also confirmed by its decisions of the National Anti-fascist Council of National Liberation in Croatia in 43. Furthermore, it should be recalled that this is also embedded in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing we'd like to point out is the fact that everywhere in the world, members of II. the world war and the anti-fascist movement have certain privileges and under the law established, as war veterans, but also, of course, based on political and moral practice. Third, what should be said clearly and unequivocally, in 1992 we passed a new Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War and that Law, among other things by members of the Partisan squad and the People's Liberation Army of II. World War II is equal to them, members of the Croatian Homeland Army, mobilized from April 17, 41 to April 15, 45. And those who were held captive and convicted by power after May 15th, 45th. Then, who were part of the Yugoslav Army during the war between April 6th and 17th, 41st or later as prisoners of war in the camp. And in such a situation, to simplify the matter, it happened that practically members of the Homeland Army at that time were fully equal with members of the Partisan movement. I mean, with members of anti-fascists. And in this question, we will not go into it in particular, regardless of any ideological prejudices that can be discussed because the question is actually what is the formation of the Armed Forces, the then Republic of Croatia, the People's Republic of Croatia did to the Homeland Army, and these were not just the indigenous ones. Because it was a Ustasha soldier back then. So we've practically made an evening in 92 years, but they have a few things that are very important. If the anti-fascist movement and the Partisan movement is the foundation of today's Republic of Croatia, based on the decisions of the Anti-Fascist Council, ZAVNOH. If, among other things, the Croatian Parliament not only accepted in the original foundations of the Constitution but also in its documents not only this fact but also established and accepted certain obligations from this fact within the framework of the national strategy of a single policy for persons with disabilities, which is obliged to take appropriate measures and actions that should contribute to the equalisation of members of the anti-fascist movement, with defenders, Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, which is, in fact, one and another category, a special recognition that, without both categories of today's independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia, there would not be. I will be free to quote point 3.7 of the National Strategy says: "The Ministry of Labour and Social Care in cooperation with the Ministry of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War by the end of 2004 will coordinate legislative protection and the purpose of making it more equal to the position and protection of military and civilian disabled wars and participants in World War II, peacetime military disableds and vices and civilian disableds from the Homeland War, etc.". Therefore, colleagues and colleagues have no need to conduct an ideological discussion about who has no one, as I said in the introduction, all have the right to certain pensions that have earned it. But the fact is that with the last amendment to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, this category of anti-fascists has come into a more unfavourable position and has primarily come into three fundamental rights. These three basic rights concern the issue of the monthly pension base, which increased for defenders from 100 to 115%. Then it's a question of disability and... care and help. And in this situation, we are starting from the assumption that it is necessary, in this segment, not to question the 92th-year solutions on all categories that they have the right, but that these three basic material financial rights should be evened out. And that they should also be provided to members of antifascism and all other categories followed by anti-fascists, and I underline should look at Article 5 of the applicable law, so you will see that there are others. The second question that follows is other than this national strategy and obligations and on the other basis for us in the Croatian Parliament, which is the Declaration of Antifascism, which in point 9 explicitly says "Invite the state authorities to use legislative means and activities to preserve and improve the anti-fascist gain of the value of the commitment of the Croatian Society and the Republic of Croatia and work to preserve dignity, etc.". Therefore, a legislative issue needs to be addressed. THAT's how it's supposed to be reminded of some more questions. Last year, at the 6th month then at the 9th month, the Prime Minister first wrote to the Prime Minister and then to the Deputy Prime Minister of Health and Social Care, and then in the 10th month 2004, the Deputy Prime Minister of Labour and Social Care, Mr Andrija Hebrang, answered, and the Croatian War Disabilities Union again wrote 7. 1. 2001, etc. Therefore, there has been continued intensive correspondence between the Union of War and Military Disabilities of the Republic of Croatia and of course the legitimate authorities of Croatia, which are, in addition to the obligations arising from the national strategy on the one hand, now from the adopted Declaration on the other and, of course, from the fact that it is necessary to bring this right with the rights of members of the Homeland War defenders, then it was necessary to make a legal amendment. However, instead they received the answer as a rule of the following, an inter-resorial work was established, so the minister established an inter-resor working group whose task was to propose to the Government among other ways of harmonising legal protection for the purpose of... the situation, etc. And now that I'm not reading all of this, among other things in this material, there's talk about ideological issues, which is the homeland army that isn't, etc. There's no need to read it. But the fact is that this inter-minor group has not come before the government today, nor has it been coordinated, at least as much as I have information, government coordination, let alone the Parliament, with a proposal for a legislative solution on amendments and additions to the law that should regulate this area. That is why, and especially after the declaration, we have accepted that, after marking Croatia and the whole of Europe on the 60th anniversary, it is necessary to do this issue, to correct this not only for formal but also for substantive reasons, we have determined this injustice to prepare a proposal for amending and supplementing the law, above all, these three basic segments concerning material and financial rights because it is persons of an extremely advanced age who do not have time to wait for amendments and amendments to the law. Thirdly, we would like to make it clear that it is often objecting, and also in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is an undefined or vast number of citizens and users of rights and that this will significantly burden the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 and later in 2006 respectively. We would like to remind that for 2005, annual needs, for these needs, 364 million, 527 thousand 057 kuna are planned for all grounds, which is about 30 million and 377 thousand 254 kuna at the monthly level. DA in the first category, that the content tag and this includes the following that the first characteristic group or number of users at the end of 31. 12. In 2004, the following data on that day were wartime military disableds under a (a) Partisan 5239, domain 976, then civilian disabled 2. World War 2644, war participants and then Partisans 1791 of it, natives 2592, members of the family of Partisans 506, and of the Domobran 1936, peacetime military disabled 3094, civil disabled from the Homeland War 2686, therefore they are also in that category, then the family invalid for Partisan 3738, behind the Domobran 1903, behind civilians 2. The World War 182, behind the peacetime military disabled 641, behind the civil people with disabilities from the Homeland War 424, users of a special supplement 27, or total users of 28 thousand 379 or total consumer rights, of course from the entire law on military and civilian invalids of war and 1st and 2nd and the Homeland Army and anti-fascist movement and civilian victims of the Homeland War, are practically consumer rights of 40 thousand 421 and persons with rights of 28 thousand 379 and that this is certainly not even close to being numbers that would mean a significant increase in funds in the budget compared to the already foreseen budget funds if this small change and addition of the law were raised. It is practically at the level of the annual calculation of slightly less than 20 million kunas, and at the same time they would achieve great things because they would actually correct the existing injustices. IT IS possible to do so, despite the government’s objection that, in the opinion expressed in the opinion, we did not foresee the funds actually showing the Law on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. I would like to remind you of Article 5 of that Law, which explicitly states: "In the budget the funds of the budget stock amounting to 314 million 828 thousand 0,45 kuna on the use of the funds of the government and the Prime Minister can dispose of the funds.", etc., etc., finished quote. Therefore, by redistributing the budget supply, the Government can provide for the reallocation of the funds that it has the right and possibility for this purpose and in this respect, it is no problem practically that the funds for the change and, for the implementation of the Law on Change and Complementary, that is to say, the protection of military and civilian invalidity wars are secured. Of course, there is only a matter of political will and good intentions that this Amendment and the amendment of the law, that, in fact, one injustice that has been done to harm this category of military and civil invalid war and that at the same time, at the same time, on the one hand, to the recognition and anti-fascists, but followed by this and other members of the war that came into the situation today to be able to exercise rights, I was free to obtain all the information and... I didn't just say that, because this data is from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the Department for the Protection of Victims and War Participants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all the data that's here... It's completely accurate based on our ministry's official record. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting from all the above, we at the club felt that it was necessary to propose amendments to the law in these circumstances, the more the deadline for this part to be made by the national strategy to expire, and the further question remains that until the full equalisation of anti-fascist fighters with defenders from the Homeland War, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should by the end of 2006, by its special measures, therefore, it is not material financial rights, but other advantages that it should actually adopt implementing regulations and... How come when we haven't passed the amendment and the addition of the law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we as a Club do not insist that in the final proposal we must be proposing ourselves, we do not mind that on the basis of our proposal of the law if it passes the first reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia prepares the final draft of the law and directs them to a parliamentary procedure in this year which marks the 60th anniversary of the anti-fascist struggle that actually created such a resulting basis which is the basis of the modern democratic structure of Europe and the world. Speaking to you and giving this further explanation, we would like to actually ask all MPs and MPs to support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37662	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? And we have two corrections to incorrect allegations, I'm sorry, first is Mr. Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37663	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Mate Arlovic, and he says: "Croatian defenders have increased the base from 100% to 115%.". Today, already in this assembly under the second item of the agenda, one of his colleagues misrepresented it, and I have also corrected it as Croatian, as Croatian defenders have tax advantages. It is not true that Croatian defenders have increased foundations, and we should not be surprised that a good part of Croatian citizens live in the belief that hundreds of thousands of Croatian defenders receive pensions or have some material rights, when we in the Croatian Assembly misdetermin the concepts. The material rights of pensions have Croatian military disabled people and there are 30 thousand Croatian defenders and there are several hundreds of thousands of them, so far they have no concrete material rights and I believe that it is necessary to correct this assumption in order to make a modest contribution because this misdetermination should not come out and thus complement the creation of the wrong perception among Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37664	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Ivo Loncar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37665	counterpart Arlovic said that partisan users should be equalised with defenders from the Homeland War. I'm absolutely up for every man in trouble being helped. But I don't understand if these people need help and they need help today... teaches us that they fought for the Croatian state, whether they include those victims from Sutjeska, Neretva, Zelengor, Kadinjače, Užica and Kozara because there was no Croatia, there they did not fight for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to anti-fascist combat users, of course, that I am for them, that they should be given any recognition in any respect or material, I just don't know if these anti-fascists are, for example, one Simo Dubajic should read him an interview in the '90s, or for example. Rade Bulat and Luto Ahmetović who wrote their accusations in the book Žumberak and Popolje in... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37666	It's about disabled people, no matter what makes someone disabled, they're disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37667	That means if I go now to fight in South America, so I can't be a disabled Croatian Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37668	Well, it doesn't say here, it says, military and civilian disabled wars, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37669	So who they fought for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37670	Please, I would, I would like to give one brief opportunity to complete my presentation and clarify these terms by the promoter, Mr Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37671	Mr. Vice President, I would first of all like to thank my colleague Yukic, President of the Committee on War Veterans, the management is about disabled people, and I just dropped the speed of speech on disabled people. As for the questions of fellow Loncar, look, I'm not saying, I've quoted what the national strategy says, which is the Declaration adopted by the Parliament and I agree with what it says in the Declaration, as it says in the Declaration, which is absolutely in the national strategy. That's number one. Number two. You know, anti-fascists when they set out to fight the greatest evil of the 20th century and modern history didn't share in national history, so often times neither at age nor social, if you want by religion or by any other definition, but they fought for freedom as such, because freedom was as fundamental value of the human civilization movement as a threat. Secondly, we in Croatia need to be particularly sensitive to these issues. No, only that there are a large number of Croatian citizens and I claim at the end of II. World War II, the largest number of citizens, partisan units made up of people from the territory of Croatia, participated in II. the world war and the people's liberation struggle, rather than the first in Europe and the world to fight fascism because the severe repression of fascism, tortures were felt first and foremost in Istria, then in Dalmatia, Rijeka, etc. in Dalmatia and later. Don't forget that the citizens of our homeland in the fight against fascism were already 21st, 22nd and 23rd year the first victims fell. Fourthly, the fact is no matter what my point is, that the people who fought for these issues and the fight for freedom have done a lot for independent sovereign Croatia. I will not only talk about the rapal contracts, I will be free to show and the fact that the people who took over and came to power, forming a para-state in 41 years did so at the expense of the territory of the Croatian state because they gave the rest of the island, Dalmatia, Međimurje, Baranja and those who did so were then betrayed by the Croatian people because they traded in its territorial space. These others fought everywhere, around the world and in Croatia for the freedom of the Croatian people along with the freedom of Europeans and the whole world and of course for its full territorial sovereignty and integrity. And ultimately, on the basis of these, the struggle within the borders of the Socialist Republic of Croatia and today Croatia has been recognised by the International Community. And of course I have something else to say. I pray that when it is said, "Mr Arlovic said." I quote and quote Article 5 again. The law that set it straight. He makes it clear: “In the form of partisan troops or Yugoslav armies or outside their composition in the exercise of military and other duties under the orders of the military authorities and authorities from 17 April 1941 to 15 May 1945 also in the composition of the Croatian Homeland Army mobilized on 17 April 1941 to 15 May 1945, i.e. until the release from captivity and so on, I am not quoting Article 5 to the end. So I didn't say, I was quoting. And the Law was passed in 1992, and many people under the Law exercised rights. Those who did not have any, had, and in this respect, of course there are differences whether we all ideologically and politically agree that all categories that are now represented should be obtained or not. That's another question. But I don't think it's correct to put something in my mouth that I said what I didn't say, but if I quoted the law, and I said that motivated us by the reasons and led us to propose this amendment and the addition of the law, and that in this year, we allow the 60th anniversary of the anti-fascist movement to virtually equalize these rights with the rights of defenders because it is ultimately our formal obligation. And in that respect, I ask you to have proper access to the proposed matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37672	Thank you very much. This was an exceptional opportunity to explain itself, but she did make corrections to incorrect allegations, so I'm asking you not to again, to re-expand the debate on this issue because then who knows where it all came from. Let's also say that if someone was fighting in Bosnia that he didn't fight for Croatia and even from the point of view of some ideas, then he fought for Croatia, even though he imagined that Croatia was up to the Drina as some imagined. So he fought in some way, and that's why we don't need to get into these poles, but we're talking about people with disabilities here. We're not talking about anything else, so I'd be begging you. Here's three correctings of incorrect allegations, but really, let's get this over with and we can go further into the debate. Here's the first one, reporting for Mr. Ivo Lonchart's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37673	A colleague, Arlovic, said, quote: "Antifasists when they set out to fight have not been divided nationalally or on any other basis." It's a finished quote. That's not what I'm talking about. Therefore, fellow Arlovic, we cannot change the past. If today SUBNOR says they fought for Croatia, do I care if that category you were talking about includes people who have become disabled or died in Sutjesca, Neretva, Zelengori, Kadinjaci, Užica and so on? If so, why did we tear down that regime from 1941 to 1945? If that's so, Mr. Cain, that someone wouldn't put something wrong in my hand, and when it's gone, when things are politicized and when they don't, there's no arguments, then they're talking about Rapal contracts, Istria, Zadar, Islands, Rivers and so forth. That's not what I was talking about. And another thing I wanted to say. I'm interested. I support anti-fascism because I'm an anti-fascist. I'm an anti-communist and an anti-Nazi. Everything that's killed a man, I'm against it. But I wonder if Simo Dubaic is an anti-fascist? I wonder if Rade Bulat or Luto Ahmetovic anti-fascists? Are those who killed tens and tens of thousands of innocent people on the crossroad anti-fascists? That's what keeps me busy, and that's why I've been like a man who's been marked his whole life and had to read a bunch of books. I've also read the wrong ones, and I've read other sources, and I have my own opinion on it. And I repeat it one more time. We can't change the past. We can't make her better or worse. She's who she is. Let's finally come to our senses. Let's let history go to historians, and we make laws. And let's not segregate one to the heart of the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37674	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37675	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37676	This has been a long time. I'm asking you colleagues. It does not determine who Lutvo Ahmetovic was or who they were. This is about disabled people. ... Please, please nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My one, here's to a little bit of a little, little diet. One of my mates down here, he had a hole in his forehead all the time, he was wounded in World War I on the side of Austro-Hungarian. So he fought Serbia and others. He was getting disability because he was wounded in then-Yugoslavia. So it's about those principles. It's not about everything else that we want to expand here right now, and I'm asking you not to spread it. So let's finish with these corrections of incorrect allegations. Here's Mr. Damir Caine yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37677	Well, Mr. Vice President. You've set a very, very good example. But I'd like to say something else. World War II was the general one on Sutjesca, Neretva, Drvar or Užice fought against fascism both in the world and in Croatia. So the one who fought on Sutjesca fought for Croatia as well. ... He fought, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] France and free Germany and free England. [[So what corrects?]] He also fought for his freedom, and without that freedom and struggle, Croatia would not be. And that's the point. And Mr. Lončar knows very well that there has been a lot of deaths in Sutjesca and the Dalmatians as well as the Croats who have fought for themselves, for freedom, for Croatia and for the sake of clarity... /The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37678	Please, I wanted to, I wanted to, please nicely yes, to jump out of order a little bit, so he got the word unusually Mr. Mato Arlović to explain. All of us in corrections don't correct ourselves, or, or maybe 10, 15% correct, the rest of us correct opinions, so in this context, we let Mr. Cain talk about something without correcting it. We didn't do anything new here, but we simply followed a tradition like this that we put ourselves here, so please, yes, here's Mr. Lonchar, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37679	Mr Vice President, colleague Cain has violated Article 214, paragraph 6 and you paragraph 5. So he's plimized here with my opinion that he has no right to the Rules of Procedure. And what he was saying. I got nothing against those guys who were on Sutjesca, Neretva and Zelengora and so on. God gave them the rest of the souls who died there. Those who are wounded, I'm sorry. But it's not Croatia. That was another country after the fall of the royal Yugoslavia. Therefore, according to his nadal logic, all those who went to fight in Spain are right. So let's not ask people to chase apples and pears. Let's finally learn a little history and historical facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37680	I wouldn't want to spread, and I'm asking you to get it over with. Oh, please. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It can't be claimed sometimes that, someone has claimed that Croatia is up to Drina, and now... And now in 1943, someone died there and did not die for Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's not get in the way of contradictions, because then we're questioning those other things. Therefore, of course it is Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign state, but then in 1943 and 1944 it was officially part of the independent state of Croatia then. Now, please, nice. Right? ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's another one for Mrs. Ivana, Judge Trakostanec, so I hope we finish this opening part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37681	If it's about disabled people, I don't want to talk about ideology, I'll talk about the country. I'm from Koprivnica-Cristeva County and it's incorrectly explained in the expansion of the explanation to say that the government that was formed in 1945 did not trade territory and that some authorities had done so before. That's not true. Yugoslav communists gave part of the Croatian country, sub-level peasants in 1945 to Hungarian communists and today's democratic authorities trouble over the country's return to ownership. I'm talking about St. Michael's Hill across from Legrad County. Don't fight Mr. Arlovic on the head. So the communist government also traded Croatian territory in 1945. I have material evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37682	Thank you very much. So you see we're going in another direction. This is about disabled people not talking about any territory or anything like that. Please, let's get back to the debate. Do the committee's reporters now have any? On behalf of the board, please. Mr. Vlado Jukic on behalf of the War Veterans Committee. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37683	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 13th session on 18 May 2005, the Council of War Veterans Committee for the Croatian Parliament discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP's Club of Representatives by an act of 9 March 2005. The Committee held the hearing as the home working body in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that the bill should not be accepted. In the opening address, the applicant presented the reasons why the draft law is to be submitted and to be examined in respect of the provisions of the national single policy strategy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 which oblige the executive bodies to comply, i.e. the equalisation of the rights under that name from different systems, as well as compliance with the provision of point 9. Declarations of anti-fascism that speak of the need to preserve dignity and care for participants of anti-fascist combat. They are encouraged by social reasons because the fact that the receiving of wartime wartime wartime invalids from World War II is lower than the receiving of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the principle of justice and equality before the law. The funds needed to implement the law according to the proposaler's assessment ranged around 20 million kunas, and the number of users of around 28 thousand with a view to including members of both the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan troops and members of the Homeland Army. The basic intensity of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws is in equalising the basis for the determination of personal disability, care and assistance supplements and the orthopedic addition of wartime wartime wartimes to those received by Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in accordance with the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Also, according to the promoters, the name of a military structure should be harmonised for changing them during the popular anti-fascist struggle. Efforts were made to avoid ideologies of issues and intensities to improve the social status of wartime wartime wartime peoples of World War II. In addition to its written opinion, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia stressed that the proposed amendments and additions require significant resources in terms of the number of users and that certain groups are favoured in the consumption of the right to care and assistance, as well as an orthopedic supplement which creates inequality between the users of rights and laws. It was also stressed that the resources provided in the State budget for 2005 for the implementation of the applicable law would be insufficient and, by accepting the proposed amendments and additions, there would be an even greater obligation. The committee members delivered the following opinions in the debate. The funds necessary for the implementation of the law and the number of users of the right should be determined more precisely and taken into account the real possibilities of the State. It is necessary to avoid an ideological debate about the past and for which there is a real danger and which is not welcome at this time. It is not time for the concessions and alignment of the rights of wartime wartime people from World War II with the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. If there is no means to implement the proposed amendments and amendments, it is possible to extend the law for 2006. It is also necessary to prescribe, in Articles 3 and 4, an increase in the allowance for care and assistance, as well as an orthopaedic supplement for other users. for all persons referred to in Article 5(1) of the applicable law. It is not acceptable to equalise the rights of all people with disabilities, but wartime military people should have greater rights than others by estimating their contribution to the creation and destruction of the country's defence by guaranteeing a decent life for all the most disabled regardless of the cause of disability. Following the discussion, two committee members voted for the adoption of the Bill's proposal, five members were against and one was abstentioned and subsequently adopted by the Committee, he proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37684	Thank you very much. Representative for the Proposer Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37685	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have briefly consulted the motionary representatives. I came out here to announce that we will no longer use the right to report as proposing representatives. For the simple reason we want to understand our proposal as an amendment to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. That, above all, it refers to the attempt to bring the material financial rights of military and civilian disabled war into line with both the 2nd and this Homeland War. Third. We ask MPs and MPs to try to avoid the ideologies of the debate in their debate, to avoid the specific spread of this debate to the overall problem of fascism and anti-fascism and anti-fascist struggles because we believe that this bill and this debate also has a broader meaning than this issue that we want to discuss, such as the issue of the protection of military and civil invalids of war, because at this point obviously, in marking the 60th anniversary, it can also have a broader internal political and external political meaning for Croatia in view of the situation in which we are. For this reason, we invite you colleagues and colleagues to present your views and opinions and, of course, support the proposal for this law to go to another reading. And in the final part of this final address, we thank all those who will support and discuss this law. And we announce that we are ready to take part in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia if the Parliament accepts the decision that the Government makes the final draft law, to participate in the development of the final bill. We do not insist that we be the bearers of the final bill if the Parliament supports the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37686	Thank you very much. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37687	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club cannot accept the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club since 9 March 2005. The analysis of the provisions of the proposed law shows that the legislator did not take all relevant indicators of the users of the law into account. It did not provide for the necessary means to implement this proposed law, but states that there is no need to provide new funds in view of the number of persons to which the law applies. Therefore, I would like to present to this Croatian Parliament what is actually the number of users through the Pension Fund and through the Social Care Fund. I stress that when we talk about the number of pensioners, the participants of the People's Liberation War, that their total number is 63,000 712, sorted by categories of income and time of participation in the People's Liberation War. Therefore, for the sake of truth, I would like to present that in 63,000 712 users there are NOR fighters, pensioners who entered it before 9.9.43 and 13 thousand 723 use an age pension while a disability pension is used by 4 thousand 93 and a family of 17,000 and 303 which totals 35,000 119 NOR fighters who entered the NOR before 9.9.43, and then users of NOR fighters who entered it after 9.9.43, and an age pension is used by 8 thousand 980, disabled 2 thousand and 674, and a family of 16 thousand 939 or 28 thousand 593. When we look at from this data, only the disabled population of NOR fighters, it is 6 thousand 767 which is not small, and it is not a large number, it is not even negligible, and we have to add civilian victims of war and follow up as a result of the proposed information, because I couldn't collect them, it is about 28.29 thousand users. This same number of users also requires significant resources which are not provided for in any letter or figure in the SDP Club proposal and states that no new means are necessary to implement this law in view of the number of persons subject to the law. Given these figures I've read, to the number of 29 thousand users and to the increases and equities they should reach, the figure that can be concluded or the approximation of the figure is about half a million kuna of new funds and I don't think they're meant anywhere in the state budget. As I have already pointed out, the applicant did not propose a way of providing these funds until no additional resources were provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 for... It follows from the above that the proponent has unseriously approached the resolution of the legal frameworks for the stated population and out of pure politics has repeatedly sought to equalise the rights of NOR fighters with the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which should be said in translation that Croatian defenders who are not disabled should seek equalisation of rights with NOR fighters who are on the incomes as you have seen 63,000 712 pensions aged, disabled and family. [[You don't understand.]] So a system of values should be put in place if the state has the means and means to do so. I must say that according to the National Strategy of Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 it is the Ministry of Health and Social Care that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, harmonizes legislative protection in order to ensure a more equal position and protection of military and civilian disabled wars and participants in World War II, peacetime military people with disabilities and civil people with disabilities from the Homeland War in order to reduce the difference in total disability incomes. The government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to taking measures by the end of 2006 to equalise the right of the same name in the jurisdiction of different systems. In view of the different amounts, the rights of the same name that persons with the same type and degree of disability are experiencing in different systems, the basic amount of these financial contributions should be evened up by that deadline. Therefore, the initiative of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Family and Defence and the Intergenerational Solidarity of Ms Jadranka Kosor was founded by an inter-resor working group working on the implementation of the commitment strategy. It is unclear whether the proposed amendments to Article 16 of the Law apply to persons referred to in Article 5(1) or to persons referred to in point (1) of Article 5(1) and subject to the proposed amendments in Articles 18 and 20. Therefore, because of the uncertainty, due to unforeseeable amounts and sources of funding, we would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support this bill, and also that the national strategy and inter-resent group working on coordination will certainly work without this law to bring pension incomes into line with both persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37688	Thank you very much. Correction, I'm sorry. Mr. Vlado Jukic has one correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37689	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Josip Djakic, which concerns the number of potential users under this bill, he cited 60 and several thousand. I can't believe that the government's representative, which means the Assistant Minister of Health of the Croatian Government at the meeting of the War Veterans Committee, presented the incorrect information, and she presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia what I would have to believe as a representative, had to be the exact information that we listed in the record, which is 28 thousand. In view of the dispute over this figure, I believe it would be appropriate for a representative of the government to be visible here to us MPs on whom the number of users is at war, because I think it is a very important fact to think about this bill, so I ask you to intervene in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37690	Thank you very much. There are no government representatives here, but we'll give it to them. The HNS club and Ms. Representative and Vice President Vesna Pusic, which is not available. He's losing his right. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37691	Dear Mr Vice President, and above all, we have an objection to this law, because we believe that this matter should be evened with the Homeland War Defence Act and the members of their families, means "National Journal" number 174/2004. So for IDS, there's no difference. Whether disability occurred between 41 and 45 if someone was in the Partizan squad or died as part of the Partizan movement or was in the Croatian Army between 1991 and 1995. However, I always point out behind this pay phone that the hand of a young man who lost it in Istria in 43rd is as valuable as the hand of a young man who lost it in the defence of Gospić or Osijek in 1993, and it must be a civilization principle like the one mentioned earlier by this House Vice President Mr. Bebic when he said that he remembered the example that some Austrian soldiers who fought did not know on the Thessaloniki or I do not know which front, against the Serb army, after forming the Kingdom of Yugoslavia de facto received their pension. So the disabled must follow exactly one of these civilization principles. However, gentlemen, in Croatia this was not the case. Or in modern Croatia or democratic Croatia. In Croatia in the early 1990s there was an institutional degradation of the Partizan movement. And it is fortunate, as Mr Arlovic said, that a month ago, this Parliament adopted the Antifascism Declaration. We should rightly be disgusted that, for example, the Serbian congregation has leveled the Chetish and Partizan movement, and that should be condemned in every way possible. As it is also necessary to support the government, let's say, in removing the Budaks or the Franciscan monuments, or in its opposition, to award that high-ranking American medal to the daughter of Draža Mihajlovic. However, in their assembly of Partizana and Chetnika, Serbs leveled 2005 and the Croatian Parliament is the so-called parliament. The participants of the Homeland Army, whatever the term means, evened with the Partisans back in 1991, or 92. So we're kind of Serbs in the past for a good 13 or 14 years. The main problem is that many of those from the so-called Homeland Army wore "U" at the head. And that, gentlemen, is the problem. And that's what we ourselves have to "urby et orbi" ourselves simply admit. Although, no cameras, which means, come on, we're lucky to be able to discuss it in a quieter atmosphere. I also hold, speaking of which, let's say the President of the Parliament has no need to speak in Bleiburg while the good part of them who are present there has black uniforms on them. I agree. Bleiburg is a tragedy of the Croatian people, Bleiburg was a crime, but the uprising also because it led to this Bleiburg. We are disgusted by that Chetnik party in Ravna Gora, and in Belgrade perhaps over Bleiburg. I absolutely welcome the Declaration of Antifascism and Deletation of Budak Streets across the Republic of Croatia and the move of Francetic's monument to Slunj, and the condemnation of the Government as to the mining that has recently started in Vukovar or earlier Tito's monument in Kumrovec and the reaction to walking in Ustasha uniforms in Zadar. But we, gentlemen, must equalize, so disabled II. World War I. I'm thinking here of the Partizan movement participants and the Homeland War participants as well as of the prisoners of the concentration during II. World War II and prisoners of camps that had Serbs throughout Serbia between 41 and 45. We must simply do so while there are still living participants II. World War I. In this Legislative Proposal, in these arguments that we have received from Mr Arlovic or the SDP Club, this Article 5(1) of point 3 is interesting. The Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, "The National Journal" No. 33/92, which reads, quotes: "So, the wartime military disability is a person whose organism has been damaged by at least 20% due to the wound, injury or injury it has sustained: in the Croatian Homeland Army, mobilized from April 17th to May 15th 45th, or until its release from captivity, even though it was legally convicted after 15.5.1945.". So, I quote the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War, People's Newspaper No. 33/92. So, gentlemen, that says that in some way, perhaps even the most severe criminals convicted after 15.5.45 have all the rights on that basis as well as the Partisans. They had the same rights, gentlemen, in retirement, and in the purchase of apartments "resurgents or participants of the Homeland Army" were twice privileged to the Partisans because their time spent in the war was double-time compared to the Partisans who did not count on it. Finally, to those whose assets have been confiscated, I speak to war criminals in 92, 93, 94 was returned to the foundation of the Denationalisation Act, and to those to whom the team has been nationalized to this day has not been returned. And there is, clearly, still a good part of the polemics or problems when the law on denationalization is also a result. All in all, this or this matter should be resolved in the spirit of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War, not the Law, by my judgment, on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. I'm not going to quote all these provisions of the Croatian Defence Act now, let's see which rights the Homeland War defenders have. Because some of them don't need participants. World War II, e.g. import of cars, shares, right to purchase an apartment, etc. But part of these rights, gentlemen, as much as it costs the state budget, should be clearly introduced into our positive legislation. It's the IDS position. I, to be honest, we regret that it wasn't done in 2000, 2001 or 2002. But it's a principle of civilization and it's not too late. Antifascism, i.e. the Partizan movement affirmed the Republic of Croatia, placed Croatia in the line of winners. He chose for Croatian integrity because without the NOB, without Tito never Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, islands, etc., we would not be part of Croatia and we must simply admit it ourselves "urbi et orbi". So let's try to make it up to the II fighters in some way. World war because I said, it might not be too late. This Law can be a transitional solution. It may not be a 100% fair solution, but it is absolutely necessary to support the intensities of the promoter, not by the better anything than nothing but a positive intention by trying to correct a historical injustice. And so much, the SDP proposal should be welcomed. However, the correction of civilization's injustice requires much more. The requirement means one material compensation, the condemnation of that regime that denied those rights to participants II. World War I. If we will, those early years of Franjo Tudjman, but it also requires full respect for minority and other rights. It may be unfortunate that we are discussing this in Croatia today. That should have been resolved long ago, or those questions should never have been questioned. True, if someone got a right in 91 years, they got it right. And today it would be unfair for someone to take that right away. Why? Because acquired rights don't deny themselves. If, for example, someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been declared a disabled 95th or 94th right, the individual must also enjoy the Croatian state because in this case he was in some way encouraged by the former president of the Republic of Croatia, or by the former defence minister. But that also means that we should return the rights and the participants of the People's Liberation War to this principle, the IDS in this assembly has been committed since 92, and we will continue to defend this publicly and in the future, especially if this information that we just received is correct in order to bring the state budget into line with that right is only 25 million kuna. On the other hand, to be honest with you, this HDZ stance, so Mr. Bebic was just talking about the injured Austrian-Hungarian soldier who was getting a pension under the kingdom's ex-Yugoslavia or what it was called, why, it's a civilization principle. The same is true in Istria, Primorje, rivers etc., where today thousands of our fellow citizens get so-called. Italian pensions, however, so Mr. Djakic later opposes such a single proposal in front of the HDZ Club. I don't think it's correct, and if we want to do one civilization step, we're just going to have to go back to the premise I'm talking about. And I'm finally going to say 2 one more time. The World War, gentlemen dear, was the general one who was killed in Sutjesca, Neretva, not important on the Užice or on the Drvar fought against fascism both in Croatia and in the world. So he who fought in Sutjesca fought for both Croatia and Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina but also for different Germany, Italy, Austria and so on. He fought with one word for his freedom because without that fight there would be no gentlemen of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the point as well, there would be no Croatia, as it is also clear to all of us that many Croats died there because this movement was more ethnic and there was no national difference until 91. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37692	Thank you. Before I give the Rules of Procedure to Mr. Lonchar, I'd say the following. Don't lose sight of the fact that we brought the Antifascism Declaration to the content of that declaration, it's number one. Secondly, Mr. Djapic has not denied or questioned my argument regarding the wounded Austrian-Hungarian soldier, nor questioned the principles we are talking about here but explained why he thinks it should be better arranged. Please don't spread except for Mr. Loncar for the correction, and for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, another six MPs. Is it our goal to dive back into such controversy, or is it our goal to discuss in a constructive way the proposal of this Law and to bring things to an end. I ask you to expand the subject further and try to finish it. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37693	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Cain, has violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 and you have violated it, so please be nice to say this in one Parliament: "The Croatian Parliament in 1991, 92, has equated the Partizan movement with the so-called "Croatian Parliament". The country's army that wore the letter "U" headed and here we are, but coupled with the Serb assembly that did it in 2005." And after that, you let him keep on talking. Please, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, please, colleagues and colleagues who are Ustasha are even with some anti-fascist who is a Ustasha who is even with the dominore do you have such an example of getting a pension or having that benefit in any way, so here's who's creating a mess, here's who's coming back to the dark side of our past, here's who's bending the past and here's proof that we've been learning the wrong history. Mr. Vice President, I ask you nicely for the dignity of this House, for the dignity of our country, for the dignity of our people and of all Croatian citizens, do not let it speak like this. And I have after correcting an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37694	Thank you very much. As visible and evident as I chair, it is then the broadest possible debate and I do not question many things that I could, in the letter and spirit of the Rules of Procedure, prevent. That's why I've allowed Mr. Cain to discuss it, but before that, I've asked you and him and everyone else to come down to discuss this law, not to extend the debate to other areas, because it would bring us back to that declaration that we otherwise adopted. Please, I am speaking with my best wishes and intentions that this matter which is on the agenda is constructively discussed from the point of view of protecting military and civilian disabled wars. And not to spread again because on the sidelines of that debate then new issues are raised, then it is no longer a margin but the center of the problem. So please, it's not me, it doesn't mean if I don't stop someone from agreeing with him, but I want to finally have a constructive discussion in this House about issues that are on the agenda so the other ones who are not on the agenda will come today. There are no significant differences here regarding the treatment of military and civilian disabled wars, the question is a series of steps, it's a matter of possibilities, it's a question of money, the question is that which is the scope and what is the breadth of the problem, etc. Let's not, we still have 5, 6 corrections of incorrect allegations so by morning, let's not open new things and I agree that Mr. Cain opened some things he shouldn't have opened but he opened it and now he's causing the avalanche of these corrections. What I've received has been warned, nothing has been solved and we're creating an abnormal atmosphere in the Parliament. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Ivo Lonchar is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37695	Here, I don't know where I'd go from here, my colleague Cain said, "If it wasn't for Tito, Croatia," so that's a total lie, then against whom Croats and all Croatian citizens fought from 91st to 95th, why then 15 thousand people were killed and 40 thousand people were wounded, why Vukovar, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Škabrnja, Nuštar and the rest of Croatia's sites were shot down. Why the destruction of Croatian national history and Croatian sacral monuments, then he says it was not important, please imagine, that it was not important where the antifascists fought, whether it was on Sutjesca, Neretva, Zelengori, Kadinaci, Kozari or Užica, so please nice. Then by that logic today, Alqua is right to do what he does. So what are we talking about? I'm saying this, my colleague Leko, I'm asking you nicely, I know what I'm saying, I'm saying this as an absurd, and I don't think I'm even thinking of equating it, here's where the absurds can come from. And there's something else that the native army is equating with Ustashas. Well, the Domobran army was the Croatian Army, the Ustashas were a party army, according to that logic, and you and me, Mr. Caine today could be accused tomorrow because we were in the Yugoslav Army that we were in the enemy army. So please give it nice, what we're talking about, see where we're causing problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37696	Thank you very much. We're bringing problems into the contexts of a topic that's on the agenda. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37697	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, here's the end of Mr. Caine's moment we were at the 42nd, 03rd, 04th, 05th, but here one dangerous guilty quote, Bleiburg was the consequence of the uprising. Namely, this claim legalizes... that unthinkers or opponents are liquidated by a brief procedure, without trial, because in the opinion of Mr Cain, they deserve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bleiburg was, we know, the genocide of Titus's Supreme Staff and the winners of the anti-fascists in Germany tried the fascist summit and protected the opposing army. Let's remember, at Bleiburg, the most injured were the naked young men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37698	Thank you very much. Josip Djakic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37699	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect to say that this matter should be resolved through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, because the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is intended only for those who created the Homeland of Croatia independent, free and democratic and not communist or Partisan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37700	This is about military and civilian war people. How many times do I have to mention it, but I have to look. So, according to him, Djakic is right, who says we are not spreading this beyond the disabled. Right? We're not saying if he's right or wrong, but we don't need to spread this subject. Marko Turic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37701	Mr. Vice President, I must say that Agent Cain has done two things here. I defend President of the Parliament's dignity because he mentioned that he should not have spoken, the minors appeared at Blaiburg because there were few, and I don't know how many, at a mass of 25 thousand, I allow that someone was, I allow that there was a provocator and everything is possible, but I'm surprised that his duality would not bother him to work, act, speak to this Parliament where we recently heard that there were people who were having aggression in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37702	The Rules of Procedure are not forbidden to be two-faced or to speak two-faced. So it's all within the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Zdenka Babić-Petricevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37703	Mr. Vice President, I would take ten minutes to take 10 minutes to correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Cain but I will, starting with a single quote and war is the time, but every time, unfortunately the wartime is devastating for one people and was executed for the Croatian people in World War II. One another. No comparison II may be allowed. World War II with the Homeland War. In II. The world war, Mr. Caine, was about what was going on at the heart of the Croatian people, whether they were members of one army or another. It happened in the history of the Croatian people when the Croats killed. That never happened again. And you who point out, in the positive partisan uniforms, in these partisan uniforms, in these partisan uniforms and at the orders of the Partisan response happened Bleiburg, Jazovka, Baksa, Jama, i.e. in my Imotski area there are no villages that are not, you do not know what is the bottom and pit where the Croatian boys were inserted. It happened in the partisan uniforms of my neighborhood when the Partisans and my neighborhood, even if they were in the minority, killed the people, and killed civilians, it happened, come to Lovrec, please one day and you will see what the partisans were doing, what the partisans 37 women, children and men did burned in one house and underneath the church called the burned house. In the Partisan uniforms, what we finally cannot talk about in the Parliament happened. We've turned into what we're not. And I will never speak to you again, and I will try never to answer, nor are we historians, nor are we historians, nor are we judges. We have turned into what we think we are, we are knowing parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament but it is not, therefore, a history that must happen, for the Homeland War what happened for 41 to 45. My mother is 96 years old today when I ask her something, son in the name of love and faith better not to know. It happened under the name of Partisan uniforms. And that's the truth, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37704	Thank you very much, this was the last correction to an incorrect quote. I pray again for, those who are now turn to argue to stick to the framework of the bill's proposal because we can again cause the avalanche as Mr. Cain is now with his debate, and then it goes on, then I can't, who can stop it from happening to my people anymore. Well, I can't, I'm not gonna break people up in principle because I don't do it anyway, but please take us where we're going if we're going to divorce seven or ten more stories now. Please, don't work here, please, military and civilian disabled wars, this is the point of the agenda. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37705	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, the first thing I have to say, which I'm going to say on behalf of the HSP Club, is from a legal point of view. And you know for yourself that about a month ago, the Constitutional Court ruled that it wasn't against the constitution that people with disabilities from the Homeland War established a budget base of 115% compared to civilian people with disabilities from the Homeland War. Therefore, we must be aware that here we cannot use the expressions that something is against constitutional law and that some bankruptcy law has been abolished, therefore, it is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Croatia on the basis of the demands of the Association of Civil Disabilities from the Homeland War which said it is not anti-constitutional but that it is possible and in accordance with the Constitution to have different parameters but within the same groups. So that's what's important to say in all this first. The second thing that is important to say is that, normally ideologies aside but in Croatia, the right party today's Croatia owes its freedom and independence exclusively to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, so we will not enter into discussions on anti-fascism and fascism, but this is the fact that today's Croatia is free, independent and democratic first of all and thanks exclusively to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, mostly killed by Croatian defenders. Now there's one thing nobody's talking about here, all the groups that this law applies to? This Law also applies to members, so-called The "Republic of Serbian Caine" military refers to them according to the regulations on... And that's the biggest fight we've had in all of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the biggest dispute, or you know for a fact that the rules on the qualifications of the 1990s are, first they were asked to participate in these negotiations to have the same rights as the Croatian military disabled and then it was decided that they would have rights under the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, meaning this Law that we are now discussing, which applies not only to members of the so-called. those armies of the "Republic of the Serbian Krajina", as well as all civilians who were killed on the other side during the Homeland War. I had the opportunity to read those certificates when it was in the initial period. It says in confirmation: "Fearing the Ustasha grenade", the confirmation of St. Sava's Hospital from Vukovar or so similar these certificates were. Now that's the circle of the person. No one's ever talked about it here. Here's a circle of people to whom this Law on the Protection of Military Civil Disabilities War applies. So let's let go of these stories, debates about the partisans, the natives and everything else. It is a circle of people that this Law refers to more than these people are many I say who, realize that real day alive and living in Croatia today, and that may be the biggest problem for Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War. No one has talked about it, so I have to say it on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. Thirdly, this law on the protection of military, civilian disabled people from the former Yugoslavia is essentially taken over. Small only changes were made and then only in 1992 was it brought as a refined text. Second and third, let's not confuse the concept of pension and disability. This Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities does not solve the concept of pension at all. And let's not mix a circle of people who make pensions according to regulations, say whether they're partisan retirement or whatever we want to call it. This only solves this part of the base to be the same as at this time for Croatian wartime military invalids means 115% of the budget base. Thus, the number Mr. Djakic spoke has nothing to do with it but the number Mr. Jukic said on behalf of the Committee. That's the 28 thousand, and that's not some big amount and some big money, and it's good, that Croatia will have to deal with. We need to be aware of that. Croatia will have to resolve. A man without a hand, a man without a leg must have if we're a state of social rights. This is why we expected to get an accurate and accurate calculation, and this is why the government should make an effort to say precisely whether this is the amount, and we see it now and in the figures that are said not to be that. Nor did Mr Arlovic read this section that he also refers to these so-called members. The armies of the Serb province and civilians who were killed. I didn't hear you read it, and it does because, it is, it's a rule of conquistance. You know for a fact that 90 and, when there was a peaceful reintegration of the Podununov then these rules were passed, and these groups are located with you in the Ministry of Health and Labour and Social Care. This is for us at this time and for Croatian defenders the biggest problem. We don't have this part of the problem, it's got to be solved, and it's gonna be solved. There are meanings and obligations given to the Government by the Croatian Parliament and there are clear things. Furthermore, as the mustache in that Mr. Caine has no say in the pensions of Croatian defenders. Namely Croatian defenders, if we speak responsibly and correctly, they have neither a valid law nor a right that once had an example of partisans. But no, I'm not saying that in a sense of speaking, which was it. But first, so Croatian defenders have no or no right to housing. Partisans had it according to regulations as well as a pension issue. And that's true. Now there is, so Croatian defenders are neither now nor ever, only Croatian wartime wartime disableds, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. They have the right to this part of housing, and themselves Croatian defenders never. Neither is the matter of retirement but is now determined if, when they are filled in certain years, if that pension is lower than that, then this one supplement is obtained. Now, Croatian defenders, first of all here, I think of Croatian wartime military disableds protesting that they are also in some situations suspended. For example, the list of physical damages is the same for all groups of disabled people except for the Croatian military invalid. And it is more favourable than the list is worth determining the degree of physical damage to Croatian wartime wartime disabled. Now they're asking to equalize themselves to that part of the right that they have, say, these groups that I've been talking about means the participants of World War II. So it's not such a simple story. There are a lot of different situations where it's not exactly the same, and then the worst thing Mr. Cain said to identify partisans wants rights as they have defenders for pensions, for this, for what, for housing, and we know that they don't. Thus, it only serves in the sense of ideologies of this debate and non-crisis in order to reach the ultimate goal. Therefore, the situation in this section is not simple. I only wanted to point out to you on behalf of the Croatian Party Club other problems, and I say to us the biggest problem that Croatian defenders call us is that those who have fought on the other side, and that is closer, is the Homeland War than there is a second war and all those other things. And that's why I wanted to warn you that we've all forgotten it together and we see how it all works out properly, but it's inevitable that these things will have to be settled, and we need to see the financial calculations and all the other things. It means that sober and healthy heads are being considered and that we come up with a solution that will be satisfactory, but that we do not again bring new riots and new riots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37706	I thank Mr Kovacevic who contributed exactly in my opinion to some clarifications. We're moving on to an individual discussion. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37707	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War proposed by the SDP Club is required to increase the material and social rights of disabled persons, NOB participants and disabled participants of the Partisan squads. Clearly, this bill requires equalising the rights of the disabled NOB with the disabled of the Homeland War. Although today there are far more pensioners, NOB fighters than Homeland War defenders. In view of the available financial resources provided for in the budget, it is doubtful whether it is possible to exercise an increase in material rights in any case. And it's still questionable for three reasons. Firstly, the proposal does not show the amount of financial resources involved here. So this bill lacks a precise financial calculation which is a mandatory component of this kind of law. No sources shall be indicated from where the necessary funds would be alimentated. Another important reason is that due to experience and past and many examples, a two-way way of gaining different status on the basis of NOB participation, it is simply necessary to carry out an adequate review of the rights and status of NOB participants because it is generally known that many have obtained NOB's status with two witnesses. Only when the real situation is recorded and the necessary financial resources are projected can it be discussed. Third, it is necessary to investigate all rights used by NOB fighters over the past 60 years. The same should be done in an appropriate manner because it is known that two apartments are distributed per participant and that I do not list the other benefits they have used and which they are using today. Finally, I cannot agree or accept this proposal for a law amending the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War which does not provide for financial coverage by the Proposer, and also cannot be accepted for the basic reason that the rights of NOB participants with the defenders of the Homeland War are sought here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37708	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lucin. Correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37709	Thank you very much. I'd like to be just consistent. If we've recently advocated to make a distinction between the participants of the Homeland War and the disabled of the Homeland War, it would be good if in this case it were permanent, the colleague is on several occasions a participant of the NOB, I don't know, partisan squads. It's not about the participants, it's about the disabled. Let's make that distinction and start talking the way it seems to me the vice president gave us a good guide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37710	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Šolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37711	I'd just say that you, sir, have given your opinion. The disabled, the disabled from NOB. It's about people with disabilities from the NOB, and this is where it compares itself to people with people with disabilities from the Homeland War. We can't just quote people with disabilities now and not mention the NOB because this is exactly what this proposal is because the basis of disabled people's liberation struggles and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37712	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivica Pancic, representative of Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37713	Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. When we discuss the laws here in the Croatian Parliament, we should seek to keep these discussions calm, to be dignified, regardless of what law they speak of, including these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. Unfortunately, in one part of it, we've heard a lot about what's directly related to this law has nothing to do with it. Because returning to the past at least, that's the opinion of a man born in the late '60s, it won't do anyone any good. World War II is long over. His participants fought for ideals, for delusions, time said its own and about it... and I think it would be far more fortunate if we were interested in some other topics here in the Croatian Parliament, as we are interested in this unfortunate 2nd World War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us say how to create new jobs, how to hire all unemployed including Croatian defenders and other groups of Croatian societies. The Croatian state, I think, would flower. But to move on to this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. At first, I'd say two things at the expense of the government's representatives, because I'm not going to say that it's a wonder that we got on this proposal because there's nothing more that comes from the government that can surprise us. Because on a whole series of draft laws by the opposition comes the government's response that this issue will be considered, that's below one. And number two, it will form an inter-resor legal group or working group or as it has already been formulated that will soon come up with a full proposal. That's what happened in this case. And there's an important deviation from what we've heard now. I'm always for it to be better written in an indication of the government's representatives why a particular bill cannot be accepted. Open, regardless of whether anyone will be angry, in this case the Proposer, in this case the SDP Club has no reason to be wrong. Let us remember only one of the answers which is the proposal for a solution to the issue of the Croatian Defence Council, because we know, there is also a colleague, Bagarić, that together and several times we have asked this question, including when voting or when discussing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defencers, an article has been introduced which discusses the necessary regulation of this issue. So then the government's representatives said that the problem would be solved first by summer last year, then by Christmas last year. Here we are, and at the end of May, a solution to the problem of the injured members of the Croatian Council of Defense by the Government is not ours. So often when this formulation comes from the government that an inter-resor group is formed that will solve a particular problem, a solution behind this seems to be the only solution for pro-longing that problem. Now, the second objection that goes to the government's representatives is that here, except for his State Secretary from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, no one sits as a representative of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, even if he hears this debate because this is exactly the ministry leading this inter-resor group that should find a solution for better protection of military and civilian disabled wars. This is not the only problem that the government is calling upon, it was present both before and from 2000 to 2004 where, as there are fronts between individual groups or parliamentary representatives representing certain groups, so officials within the ministries or between one ministry and another are often also conflicted that it is not good. And it would also be useful if a representative of the government could be already at this session or if there is no such data there will be an opportunity to say, to come out with a list of all right users, as a fellow HSP mentioned that number of 28 thousand. Often, far greater numbers of right-holders from World War II, a participant of the People's Liberation War and the Homeland Army, were affected. Then we had a chance to hear a 60,000 number, and once there was an 80,000 number. Now we've heard that there are also cases of conqualification, meaning the transfer of a whole other group to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. And it would be good if, as we solved this mystery of World War II to solve this other one so that there wouldn't be any later politicization of this whole, whole story. Let me get to the point. I am personally in power by 2003 and today in opposition I represent the same principle. War veterans should have greater scope of rights than other groups, disability, civilian victims, persons with disabilities at birth, etc. Because the casualties in the defense of the homeland are being additionally honored. These are world experiences. If we analyze countries that have come out of the war, especially large countries, and Croatia is able to compare its veterans with them without any shame, you will see that this solution is present even the difference between veterans of different wars themselves. In some country it exists, in some country it's completely even. There was an observation here that the last government did nothing that was absolutely incorrect. There have been important coordinations, so the disability base, the difference in the disability base has become only 15%, 115 for Croatian defenders and members of their families and 100% for other disabled groups. Now comes the question of whether or not we want to and can even the invalid foundation. I fundamentally accept this issue as a matter of justice and moral satisfaction, with the differences of clarity that exist in other legal solutions contained in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. I also think that the attitude of the Civil War Victims Association to mark the deaths of children killed in the Homeland War went in this direction where they seek equalisation of the disability base, but clearly that certain differences between wartime people with disabilities, Croatian wartime persons and families of the dead Croatian defenders remain, i.e. they also have a higher degree of protection in respect of both pension rights and some other solutions related to disability rights. What we have in every debate about these laws that we must comply with and the only restriction for all categories is the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. All rights must be linked to the country's economic prospects with one principle that there is no right without obligation. And lastly, I would like the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come up with the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War as soon as possible and to agree things, as we have largely agreed on issues related to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37714	Thank you. We just got out of time to sign up for 10 minutes. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what exactly is this about? This is a very simple matter, of equating the legal and material position of disabled people from different systems. Just that and nothing else. And why is that? Why would we go to this, to equalize the material rights of disabled people from different systems? For a very simple reason, because we are bound by a national single policy strategy for people with disabilities. Did we import that strategy? Did someone force her on us? No, I don't. We took it here ourselves. And now we need to operationalize the strategy that we have brought ourselves and that we all agree with together. That and nothing else. What's the surprise about that now? Look out for me. I'm not surprised at the attitude of my fellow Lonchars. He is as expected, as irrelevant as he is because he will not decide whether this bill will be accepted or not. It will decide the parliamentary majority's position, the HDZ's position to follow the government's logic. And what surprises me here, I'm saying it's not the Lonchar, but I'm surprised by the government. Because the government first says: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at a session held on 12 June 2003, I repeat, on 12 June 2003, that is the time of Racan's Government, some new rights have been prescribed, a circle of protection users has been extended in a more socially fair way to regulate the legal position and protection of military and civilian invalids of war, and there have been reduced differences against the overall rights of persons with disabilities and the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. Well, I went through this three times, I didn't believe my eyes. I got excited. I'm thrilled. Yes, the government for the first time, we've waited for that year and a half, but here we've welcomed the government with the signature of Eve Sanader and it's actually signed here by Dr. Ivo Sanader, admits that the government of Ivica Racana in a socially fairer way has regulated justice and the position and protection of military and civilian wartimes. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We knew that, but we had to wait to say, a year and a half to be recognized by others, who have been accusing us for four years that we are not socially sensitive and that we are not just. What does the government say next? The government further says: The National Strategy for the Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities is responsible for the Ministry of Health and Social Care to reconciling legislative protection in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity by the end of 2004, in order to ensure more equal standing and protection of military and civilian war people and participants in World War II. 2004 passed, now we're in the middle of 2005. The deadline's over. This ministry has not done so in cooperation with another ministry. It didn't work. And now he's not fulfilling his obligation. And now that the SDP wants to help, instead of these two ministries sitting down and writing a bill that was the obligation of the two ministries, then the government says: the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the bill. I can't understand that logic. There was a commitment by the end of 2004, the government did not fulfil the obligation until the end of 2004, someone else suggested that the obligation be fulfilled, and the government said it could not. It is a moving effort by the Vice-President of Mr. Luka Bebić's parliament to bring the debate of MPs down within the framework of this legislative proposal, so that it does not spread. And indeed Mr. Bebić is absolutely right, there is no point in talking about fascism and antifascism at all, about Jasenovac, about Bleiburg, so that's what we discussed when we brought the Antifascism Declaration. It's behind us. There's one very specific question that needs to be resolved here right now. We have to decide if we're going to equalize the rights of disabled people from different systems, from different systems. Are we going to do this now as the SDP club suggests, or are we going to wait so that all those people with disabilities from World War II die, and then give them back their rights, as it does to me the government when it says it will do it somewhere, that it is that it has established an inter-resor working group that works, be careful, it is working on the realisation of the strategy of established obligations, and then an inter-resor group with that watch will serve as a basis, only as a basis for the making of regulations to balance the rights of all people with disabilities. When? "Ad Kalendas graecas." Now, this other one seems rather cynical. A lot of cynic. You know someone is said "Yes, yes, we are in principle for all these rights to be equal because it's only logical and because it's only normal and because it's bound by the strategy adopted by the Parliament, but we're not going to do it right now. We'll do it in two, three years, maybe never." The deadlines are also how the government violates the deadlines, as you can see, and this is not until the end of 2004 the obligation it had to fulfil. Now, let's decide here. Let's decide here. Are we going to respect what we've given ourselves here in the National Strategy, and if we want to, then let's vote this bill. Or we won't. We'll either get out, or we'll wait for those who have the right or who would get the right to die. Well, then we'll have no one to equalize with, no one to equalize. I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, not to be cynical about these people. They're disabled after all. They're disabled. Let's show some respect for their status. Let's show some dignity and say we have an obligation and we'll do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37716	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that the motioner has left the open issue of cooperation on the adoption of this Act with the Government and should not, in that sense, return the matter. Mr. Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen from the Government, colleagues and colleagues. So I must say that I hadn't decided to discuss this proposal although I signed along with my colleagues from the SDP his reference to the parliamentary procedure, but the debate challenged me, so to speak, with two grounds. First it's the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic in Article 14 literally quotes: "Every person in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national and social origin, property, birth, education, social status and other characteristics. They're all equal before the law." What's the problem, I think, in the Croatian Parliament. So far, two conditions have been fulfilled cumulatively for the acquisition of disability status. One is that man is damaged by his health, that he has damage to his body or any other health damage. The second is, and that's the problem between us, that there's also a participant or a civilian victim. My colleagues and colleagues, if we go in principle, and the Constitution obliges us to do so, all disabled persons based on disability are in the same legal position in the Republic of Croatia. So one hand of any citizen in the Republic of Croatia from the point of view of disability is worth the same. And I agree that we're worth it, and then it's a social task that's much more sensitive, how much it's worth taking part in which war or how much the victim is worth, the civilian sacrifice, it's a matter of social agreement and the economic power of the population and the relationship to these people. Well, from the point of view of the rights of Croatian defenders, of course it should be valued. Maybe the most, absolutely. And that shouldn't be controversial between us. I also think from the point of view of participants in the fight against anti-fascism, the view from personal experience does not change the historical fact that the Republic of Croatia or Croatia was on the side of the anti-fascist coalition and that it fought against the evil of Nazism and fascism. And we're not giving that up, are we? We can't give up without collecting any points or points. Therefore, there is nothing more logical than to ask the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body that, in accordance with the Constitution, Article 14 addresses the question of the disability of Croatian citizens in the same way. Then we wipe out everyone where anybody's been when it comes to it. And beyond that, let's establish the rights of all those who have rights on some other basis. Participants in the NOR and participants in the defense of the homeland. It's the cleanest situation for me. So we will know that the NOR participant has the rights of both that and that, and the defender, the Croatian rights defender, that and that. There will be no source of conflict among citizens who have to prove in different ways that their leg, health in the Republic of Croatia is worth it. One more thing, I think that really civilian war victims, so they are completely ideological or politically irrelevant when they were killed. They cannot be treated differently if they are equal to the citizens of Croatia, if guaranteed by the Constitution, and they are. And we're defenders of constitutional rights, we're here at the Croatian Parliament. So these were the motives that led me to once again declare myself in favour of the bill proposed by my colleagues together with me from the SDP to the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you not to dismiss this proposal lightly. Of course, solutions can be sought to satisfy the wider circle of Croatian representatives in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37718	Thank you. Now I would like to give a word to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, Mr. Dr. Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37719	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So the government gave an opinion. It proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War submitted by a club of representatives for two basic reasons. As the honourable MPs have already stated, it is from what they are calling for where the government agrees with the distinguished MP Pancic when he says it should be seen in the context of economic opportunities. Or when it comes to telling who's the one who's gonna tell you exactly how much the user of those rights is. So, first and foremost, any rights and regulations are always trying to see what will happen because there are numerous examples of inability to respect and comply with the obligations made. For this reason, according to Mr Stazic, the strategy adopted should be respected because, in Chapter 38.5 of the National Single Policy Strategy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to taking measures until the end of 2006 to equalise the right of the same name in the jurisdiction of different systems. Since the different amounts of rights of the same name that persons with the same type and degree of disability achieve in different systems. It is therefore necessary to level the basic amount of these fines. On the other hand, it is true, as Mr Pancic says, that conflicts between ministry officials can lead to something, and we are constantly talking about something that will happen, and why don't we say that it says that something happened here. So, in the government's opinion, we say that when we finish making analysis and legal and material position of disabled people from a different system that will serve exactly that basis, that the rights and rights of that name are equal. Therefore, as we have stated by the Government's opinion, it has not provided or proposed how to secure funding from the state budget, it must be noted that the adoption of such a law comes in doubt whether this law will be implemented at all. For this reason, the government remains in the position to propose to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft Law amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37720	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want to be final? Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37721	Mr Vice-President, I would first of all like to thank you on behalf of the motionors to all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in this debate regardless of what she was at times a little dissonant and walked away from the topic which the amendment and the addition of the law covered. So much wider than the bill itself. Secondly, of course I am expressing once again the willingness to draw up the final draft law in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, we must remind the Secretary of State that the government has taken certain measures to regulate which by the end of 2006 should be achieved and the other equalitys are a special paragraph, and the legislative activity is a second paragraph and strategy, and in this respect we advocate that the law equalises these rights, and when they enter into force and apply it is the matter of conventions and agreements. We have no objection to the application of this Genesis Law. 1st year and that the following budget provides funds for the implementation of this law although we consider it possible if the law were also adopted immediately by redistributing the funds in particular the budget reserves and this means to ensure that they are persons with disabilities for certain categories of persons with disabilities treated by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. And the fourth, lastly, we believe that it is not politically wise at this point to make a decision that the law should not be adopted. The lobby should sit down once more not through the debate but through inter-party discussions, including representatives of the Government, to discuss the adoption of the law in the first reading, and then to determine the time until when the Final Bill will be prepared and, in particular, to reach agreement from when it starts to apply. Because we remind again they are neither political nor foreign political, nor internal political opportunities such that this law should be rejected in particular at the time of the 60th anniversary of the anti-fascist struggle. Therefore, I am convinced that there will be enough political wisdom to pass this Law into a second reading and then agree that in cooperation with the Government, we will draw up a final draft of the law, and in this respect, as representatives of the proposings, we call on the majority coalition together with the representatives of the Government to sit down once more before the first reading vote and try to agree on the fate of this whole legislative proposal, which is more so, which is why deadlines for legislative harmonisation expired at the end of last year on the basis of the National Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37722	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37723	Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, P.Z. No. 269. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports by the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed conclusion accepted by 64 votes to four abstentions and 27 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37724	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first reading P.Z. No. 272. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club, you received the proposal by mail, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, you received reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr Antun Peru's representative on behalf of the SDP Club, i.e. the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37725	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club referred the bill to a parliamentary procedure sometime in mid-March. The government had plenty of time to reflect on that proposal, and it was obvious. We at the SDP Club also have our position on the government's obvious. And I think at least what was necessary, it's a very important law to be present here as a representative of the government, to be heard, that the representatives of the government hear what the SDP Club thinks about the government's obviousness, and therefore I will present this opening statement that I have prepared to present as an introduction to the debate very briefly because the material has been delivered to all MPs in time. And as for our position on the government's testimony, I'm going to wait for one of the Resolute Ministry to show up that the other side also sees what the SDP Club is proposing the Law thinks, in which way we think we're manifesting ourselves by that view of the government. And I want to say what is clear to all of us that this is not a political issue, but that the adoption of this Coast Guard Act is a very important issue for the Republic of Croatia as a maritime country, that this is a security environmental and any other issue just not politically and that this Law, the Bill, the Proposed Law, and although the ruling majority will probably not be missed in the second reading that I am the position of the parent committee that is busy today, points out that regardless of the government's position, most MPs think that the Coast Guard in the Republic of Croatia needs to be established. As we first read the Maritime Code somewhere in September last year, we pointed to the truth and some other clubs, that in the Maritime Code as a key act governing all material legal, procedural and other relations related to the sea, maritime, navigation, ship registration, training of sailors and everything missing, as well as the principle of coast guard provisions, and I must say that the legislator accepted the SDP Club proposal and some other clubs, and in Article 1029 he incorporated a coast guard provision. True principle, but quite explicit, and it was expected that the government would refer its proposal for a coast guard law to the legal procedure. By way of derogation from Article 1029 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, However, we felt that the political will of both the Governments and the ruling majority in this House was expressed for the adoption of the Coast Guard Act because, as I said, the explicits are in that article of the Maritime Code. However, the development of the event goes on, life does not stand in August of last year, the government is making a decision instead of referencing the Coast Guard Act procedure to decide on establishing coordination for the coordination and implementation of surveillance and protection tasks for the internal seawaters of the territorial sea and a protected ecological fishing belt that co-ordination started in October of last year. As we awaited this law from the government and we felt that this was a very important issue, we decided to send in the procedure our bill of law expecting, at the same time, that the government would, in good old custom, parallel to the proposal of the opposition party's legal act, make a proposal that was usually the same or almost the same with the proposals of opposition parties, but that would be better than if the Government had shown itself in this way. We, there is a clear awareness with us that the Republic of Croatia has, regardless of the fact that it has not valorized enough the comparative advantages of the sea, regardless of the transformation of destroyed shipbuilding, regardless of the fact that Croatian ports are not due to various circumstances to a sufficient extent used for the burdens of the Central European swimming pool. Croatia is undoubtedly a maritime country and we at the SDP Club are aware and we are convinced that it is necessary to unite human, technical and material resources as a maritime country in a quality way within the framework of the Coast Guard which we have today distributed into several ministries. It is our view, and from this comes our proposal of the Coast Guard Act that of the two world-renowned single service model models and a co-ordination model in the Republic of Croatia should establish a coast guard according to the model of the single service and thus the established coast guard would take over all sea and maritime affairs that are divided today. Well, a little bit because of the disunity and the undereffective and, technically, to say the least, everyone goes their own way. With this coast guard structure proposed by the SDP, greater efficiency, greater safety environmental protection would be achieved, not only would the state budget be additionally burdened, but the unique development and application of unique technical technology methods such as the unique model of the vessel, the unique models of the engine, radio, radar systems, education, staff and the rest in the future, with greater efficiency and savings for taxpayers. I would also like to point out that this model that the SDP advocates and which we have made into the bill sees the Coast Guard as a civilian rather than a military organisation within the Navy. World and European experiences and models are truly different, but mostly two models are known, unique and co-ordinated, and a civil or military organisation, noting that the military organisation is increasingly abandoning itself. The SDP therefore fully understands and proposes a unique model and a civil organisation such as, for example, in the United States, Canada, Denmark and Greece or Trusca. We are aware that Croatia is a country that must make effective use of existing resources and potentials, including Croatian Navy funds. However, under normal circumstances, the Coast Guard functions as a civilian institution and there is coordination between the Coast Guard and the Navy, such as in Greece, when the Coast Guard is only in case of greater danger, not to say war or major disasters fall under the leadership of the Navy, and for such a model, we are in favour of the SDP. Of course, under normal circumstances when the Croatian Navy already has what is a good radar system... For the control of airspace and sea space in the depths of the aquariums of almost 50 miles, which means the range is greater than the area of responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Coast Guard must use the services of that system, so we're not going to get a new system when it exists. But I say and repeat, in regular conditions, the Coast Guard as a civilian institution performs its duties and the Navy performs its duties. I am convinced that a highly maritime country such as the Croatian country with 1242 islands, islets and rocks of which are unfortunately only 63 of them inhabited, a country with 6300 km of coastal border, with 948 km of state border at sea, with a total surface of an aquarium of nearly 57,000 kilometres of sea must have its effective coast guard service. Disunity is not good, in my almost 30-year practice, I know that the work at sea, especially in search and rescue and protection of human lives and material goods at sea and in these divided services were carried out fairly responsible, very responsible and very high quality. Some failures and mistakes and there were manifestly, and it should be acknowledged, were solely the consequence of disunity, the consequence of different treatment, different subjects, the captains went for themselves, the police for themselves, the inspection for themselves, customs for themselves, the military for themselves and despite the existence of coordination because so far we had coordination. But the coordination was and, by my deep conviction, will remain insufficiently effective. And that's why we in the SDP are not for co-ordinaters, but for a unique model of united entities within the Coast Guard. The Adriatic is a closed sea basin that should be effectively protected, respecting the necessity of controlled exploitation of existing resources and enabling the development of appropriate branches of the economy. Surely we want this or not increased traffic of tankers that cannot be prevented as well as other ships with dangerous and harmful substances and balasic waters, potential ecological disasters, growth of nautical and diving tourism. Intensification, integration of the island, fishing of the fish fund, security threats such as illegal crossings of the state border, trafficking of people, intoxicating drugs, cultural goods, unfortunately lately and terrorism necessarily requires the organisation of an effective coast guard but as a civil institution. I assure you that all sailors of the world do not want and do not like to see a warship beside themselves, especially in such conditions as the Adriatic if we want to develop nautical tourism and all that our Adriatic is very suitable for. When in my practice of sailing on the command bridge, and is that what all the sailors are thinking of seeing on the horizon of the warship's silo? There was a mix-up on the ship and a corporal was asked to find a national arrival to lift it to the mast and to greet the warship for the purpose of a curtual act. And we've all been commenting on your good seas, but let the devil carry you as soon as possible. Therefore, it is the general position of all seamen regarding the possibility that the Navy will function as a coast guard. The model that we offer has its own problems, we are aware of, above all, of traditionalism because everyone wants to be the boss in their own backyard, police in their own, captains in their own, inspection in their own, customs in their own, and this is the traditionalism that I think is the time to break down and of course that our model requires the need to change legal and sublegal acts but also has great advantages, they look at the increasing and level of safety of sailing to the Adriatic, increasing efficiency and operationality, rationalising material and human resources as a reduction of the number of vessels, equating the types of vessels, more efficient maintenance of the vessel, a unique organisation of training and training of all employees, and including employees of the maritime police who would cross the coast guard system, and then they will not be after all these employees are honorable and honest, but will not happen once they have completed the same training, the same... the process of making the indifferences that we witness every day on the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, it will not happen that the sailor professionally stops the ship under sail for no particular reason, stops on the open sea a passenger ship if there is no reason but because of some routine control and these non-sensions that are happening to us want to admit it or not, and by establishing a common service of all employees through joint education and training and indifference will be removed and achieve certainly greater efficiency. And something that isn't meaningless. A very positive public opinion in the Republic of Croatia today is about the possibility of establishing a coast guard. These are just some of the reasons that led us to refer the proposal for a Coast Guard Act to the parliamentary procedure when the government had not already done so. We're not suggesting he's the best. It can be done, but it would be very good for us to agree on that. I say it's not a political issue and we make a decision about missing the bill's proposal for a second reading, so if it's necessary to work it out. It would be for the greater benefit of Croatia's maritime, Croatian state and all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37726	Thank you very much. The committees? No, I don't. And we'll listen to one more. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37727	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, here is a very short team of HDZ clubs, of course, thinks that this problem needs more systematic and fuller resolution than it is now, but we do not see in this proposal that it solves this problem the way it should. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has one coordination of 8 ministers that monitors and coordinates the activities of the control and protection of internal seawater, the territorial sea and the protected ecological-fishing belt of the Republic of Croatia. Here in this proposal, some views on the issue of the Constitution are also questionable. Does the Constitution get in the way? The question is whether this proposal is contrary to the "Schengen" model of setting up state border control services and also the role of the Navy itself. Thus, the establishment of this agency, which is proposed, which would carry out tasks at sea, means the establishment of a parallel design with existing services at sea, and this would indeed require a one-stop-shop and a new regulatory amendment. We think that this proposal does not solve it properly and therefore we do not support and we expect a more complete solution and a proposal from the Government that, which would regulate this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37728	Thank you very much. Since you've been very short yet... We've got the HSP Club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37729	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I, unlike my predecessor, do not mean to be brief because it is indeed an extremely important topic that is finally being discussed by the Parliament. In the first place, I would like to thank my Club colleagues from the SDP Club for making this proposal and that thanks to them this topic has come to a parliamentary debate at all. On the other hand, if we agree in our Club with all the details of their solution, but the fact that it's amazing, I won't say embarrassingly that the Assembly has not discussed this subject before. We are one of the few countries that has the Maritime Code, which has the declared elements of the economic belt, and has not at the same time settled legally how to control that space. Be careful this is the state of one truly incomprehensible indifference in the application of our Decision on the Expansion of Jurisdiction in the Open Sea, therefore in the Adriatic, and on the other hand incomprehensible leniency in the implementation of even those parts of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which we are obliged. So without a coast guard, without a clear mechanism of its functioning, its competences we cannot in fact realise in the right sense neither what we have plotted through the declaration of a protected ecological fishing zone nor the possibility of taking responsibility for ourselves that we must assume as a country that has a declared protected ecological and fishing zone. This Law is therefore welcome in this sense as a sort of test, as a sort of motion for discussion. We disagree, though, with his vision of the Coast Guard as a separate fleet. But this vision of the Coast Guard as a separate fleet is pushing the Croatian government itself, which has not proposed any law on its part so far. Croatia has its MP marine police at sea. Croatia has its Navy at sea. Croatia has ship's port captains. And we don't think there's any need in parallel with the Navy to create a separate Coast Guard fleet. Only one country in the world, and that's the United States has its own private fleet of coast guard. And it's a really expensive model. Only the United States can afford that. All other countries are seeking to include the Coast Guard in a single system, a system uniting the Navy fleet, a fleet of maritime police and a fleet of port captains. And that is the model that is the most acceptable and cheapest for Croatia in our court. So the Coast Guard must include the Navy fleet. I do not agree with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which says this would be contrary to the principles of the Schengen state border control regime. No one asks that our border at sea in terms of the state border protect the Navy. They, therefore, need to be protected by the maritime police of the MUP, but the economic belt of the ladies and gentlemen is not part of the territorial sea or part of international waters. He's something third and he definitely can't be applied to the Schengen regime. Not even when Croatia is in the Union. Thus, in that part of the sea, coast guard roles can be taken over by Croatian Navy ships. And that's actually what the SDP is looking for and proposing in this sense, looking for and proposing HSP, and when this law is achieved by a sufficient majority in the Assembly, then maybe with amendments, we can change this law to be acceptable and feasible, and that will be then and only if it is a coast guard model like we propose. So a fleet of port captains who don't need to be armed protects and oversees the inner sea. A fleet of sea police protects and oversees our territorial seas from the island to the borders of the territorial sea. The Navy fleet also protects and controls our economic belts in the Coast Guard. In this way and in particular taking into account that, in our court, the Coast Guard Commander would have to be a member of the Croatian Navy commander's colleges, because this is the only way to keep an uninterrupted chain of command from the commander-in-chief over the main headquarters, the commander of the Navy to the commander of the Coast Guard, thus ensuring that an optimum from the existing fleet of armed ships that sails the Adriatic. In this sense, port captains do not have to increase their ships, they are in charge of internal waters, the territorial sea and the Schengen border at sea today-to-morrow would be covered by the maritime police of the MUP. And all money relating to the development of the Coast Guard fleet as seen here by the SDP colleagues in our court, so according to the position of the HSP Club, should be rerouted to the development of a Navy fleet that would serve on one side for patrol tasks in the area of the economic belt in peace, but also for military tasks in the event of direct war danger. It would be very bad if, with the development of the Coast Guard fleet, we could neglect the development of the Navy fleet. Because when there really is a terrorist or some other threat to our interests at sea, then it is the Navy that must bear the burden in the first place. And that is why we believe that it must be included in this entire system and that it must be funded together. This model proposed by SDP colleagues is well-developed in terms of the command's jurisdiction. It's definitely the most valuable part of the law. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, you've done it really well. We would add only one important moment to this which rests on one side on the rich maritime tradition of Croats, so the population living on the coast and on the islands. And similar examples can be found in Britain and Norway. So not only are we in favour of the application of the Norwegian or British model in Croatia, but we are in favour that here, as far as the Coast Guard is concerned, we are in favour of applying and their experience in the involvement of civil ships here. In the United Kingdom, i.e. in Norway, in the case of search and rescue actions or in all coast guard operations, ships of domestic shipowners or Great Britain may even be mobilised from abroad. It is therefore possible to do similar things in Croatia. We do not have to limit the fleet of special Coast Guard ships only to those ships used by HRM, the maritime police of the MUP and port captains, but we can also strengthen the fleet from time to time with ships, i.e. with specialized ships of certain Croatian companies. But what's especially important. In all actions of protection and rescue that would lead the coast guard at sea, we must create space for the inclusion of numerous boat owners, especially fast yachts that would undoubtedly become members of the reserve Coast Guard. Great Britain has that model. There is no reason why a similar model should not apply Croatia, but not through mobilization at the free will of the Coast Guard commander or former British homeland fleet. So not in this way, but only through the creation of a list of volunteers who are willing to participate with their vessel in coast guard actions either in guarding and controlling our aquariums or in protecting and saving them. I'm sure we're safe at the HSP Club that a number of yacht owners would be happy to engage in an action of protection and rescue that would be led by the Coast Guard if they were to receive adequate compensation. That's exactly what I was talking about when we adopted the Protection and Rescue Act here in Parliament. So with this component, we would step up the necessary fleet of the Navy, the maritime police and port captains at sea, or any ships that, from time to time, the Croatian Coast Guard would engage in its tasks on the Adriatic. So we thank our SDP colleagues for the effort you have made and the initiative to finally see this topic through the parliamentary debate. Unfortunately, we cannot agree with the model you are proposing because we believe that, for the sake of saving and for the sake of greater efficiency, Croatia would have to involve the Navy in its coast guard to a greater extent, just thinking that creating a separate coast guard fleet could harm the development of our Navy faster. As for the part of your law regarding command, it is well-made and I believe that the government will also consider it when it is and if it does so. Finally, we find it truly strange and incomprehensible that the Croatian Government has not gone to Parliament today with its proposal for a coast guard law, but that law must be done by opposition clubs. So much for the ministry's seriousness when it comes to such an important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37730	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37731	Thank you very much. It's quite short, since it's about the measure of things. This law, and it says it loud and clear in its explanation, does not speak of it and assumes no separate fleet. In fact, the argument is that this law has, that this proposal, therefore, sees its advantage in uniting existing resources and then the armies. Only, unlike your opinion in this law, is the proposal here, in fact, that the army would not be the headquarters around which it would all be gathered together, but the army would be an integral part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37732	My colleague Lucin, you've polluted with the views...... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now they'd break up and move on with the subject tomorrow. The first in line is on behalf of the SDP Club, the respected representative of Sima Lucin. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Pero Kovacevic and Nenad Stazic. Yeah, we'll do that tomorrow. It's seven o'clock. ... At 9:30. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37733	Proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 272. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? I find that with 66 votes for, 8 abstentions and 23 against the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to refer the Croatian Parliament to the procedure of the proposal for a Coast Guard Act in order to bring it into effect by June 2006 at the latest. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find the proposed lock was adopted with 90 votes, 3 abstentions and 5 against. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like an esteemed representative of Shim Lucin, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37735	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues here let me, on behalf of the club, also at first, express my satisfaction that this topic has come to the agenda. Since, at least by court, we at the SDP club hold that the issue of forming or setting up is whatever you want, the coast guard is one of the key issues and part of the structure of the state administration, but also from another aspect, and this first of all concerns the aspect of protection I would dare to express the most valuable and the greatest potential Croatia has. It is the Croatian sea, it is the Croatian islands. I must also say by expressing my satisfaction that after 15 years or 10 years all one thing, let's say 10 years of a more normal work of the Croatian Parliament to get this topic on the agenda. I also have to say that I would be happier if there was a chance that this topic would not only remain a topic but that it would actually become a project that would eventually have the opportunity to bring it back to life next year. What I have to say is that it fascinates me since I've seen the number of people who's registered for this topic. I simply cannot understand that only three people with two or three clubs have an interest in discussing the priorities of this country, which is protecting the Adriatic, protecting the maritime potential and all that the Adriatic offers. Obviously, if we were to discuss some ideological topics or discuss Ustashas and Partisans, there would probably be 120 or 150 reported. But it is probably a question of maturation, and it is likely that this Parliament will be in a position to discuss life and key issues. Otherwise, let me put it this way, I've been doing this for a very long time, and then about five years ago, it occurred to me, so is it possible that no one in Croatia, that I am the smartest, that no one in Croatia thought that this coast guard was forming? But then I did a little list of older documentation, press, etc. And I saw that, in fact, in a series of times over the last ten years, there's been an idea, even certain projects on an idea level, different models to form a coast guard. Unfortunately, there has never been a step to the Parliament, but it seems to me even a step towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And now simply when you see or at least feel that topic as important because you live at sea, live by the sea, live by the sea, and you know what it means for this country, you wonder why it is. Is it possible that on one key and important topic, Croatian politics is so blind. And then you actually come up with a fragrant discovery, and that discovery means something like this to you. If it wasn't a key policy problem, it was, in fact, politics, but the key problem is actually the state administration in that narrow sense. And now why don't we actually have a coast guard? I'd like to be denied by someone, so maybe we can see that that's not the case. In fact, you have no coast guard because it would mean that one part of the state institutions, i.e. the ministries must give up their powers and competencies and transfer them to another and then you simply get such a situation that no one will therefore give up his or her powers in order to put it under one hat for the sake of general interest. And actually when I asked you at the first meeting when we got together I don't know us 20 from different ministries, gentlemen why there's no coast guard then a clerk from the Department of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Relationship then called it that way, asked if you were really serious about forming me, that you should start with that idea about forming a coast guard, so it's about the time I was in the MUP. I say wait, how dare you ask me, so I come with that initiative. Well, he says you know, they were phases like this. When there was some idea that the thing would be realized then he would say, then the MUP would say we wouldn't be the police in the Coast Guard, then the second time he would come to the Ministry of Transport, the maritime and the connections and say we wouldn't be the port captain of the Coast Guard and in fact simple politics didn't find any courage, politics didn't find any reason or results to command and to give orders to make it happen. This is roughly in the short pictures of the history of the creation of ideas and the realization of the Coast Guard. I hope that again in two or three years in these same places we will not talk about this same way about this subject but actually talk about how to improve the existing model. Something about this model being proposed. This model that is proposed, which is in this law, actually represents for me, and for us in the SDP, the most painless, quickest and simplest model to reach the Coast Guard. This model proposed in this law implies that existing capacities are placed under the same cap, which means under command, so it does not require in the first step any new resources, no new people, but simply every ministry and state institution that implies that you should give up part of your sovereignty, transfer capacities together with people to a new organisation, whether we call it an agency or whatever we want, the state administration, it doesn't matter, we can talk about it, these are already shades and that a coast guard is forming. De facto in the first step nothing would, this whole story would cost nothing to the state. And it's actually coming to the most ideal model. Because we now have about this situation. We have a situation for you that your work at sea is done by a number of institutions, that is, a series of ministries. I know from experience that coordination doesn't really mean anything to you. Unfortunately, you have some kind of co-ordination at state or possibly county level, but there is no coordination on the ground. You've got jurisdiction, you've got a duplication of jurisdiction. I could tell you about specific problems. You have a situation where you don't know who's in charge of the safety of sailing at sea, whether it's the police, whether it's a port captain, because both have it in the description of their jobs. It's the same story about protecting and saving at sea. And unfortunately, in this cacaphony, the distribution of powers, diversity, education and the degree of training of the people who do this work, we have the situation on the Adriatic as we do. I don't think it's us, in fact, that this isn't five to twelve related to the formation of the Coast Guard and the surveillance and conservation of the Adriatic, but it's actually 15 after twelve. And if we don't do it, you know the difference between devastation of space and sea, you, when you devast space, say, if it's an illegal construction, you come in with a difficult mechanism and you fine-tun it. And when you land the sea, when you pollute the sea, you bring in a variety of biological units that don't belong to that sea, and infect it, and you get sick, and you get sick, and it's actually no longer being recovered, and we know that this resource is increasingly burdened not only by tourism but by economics, and it's getting more and more endangered. And just like this guy and this model to go back to the model, we actually believed there shouldn't be any reason for him not to accept it and not to go into it. Otherwise in the world, that's true, there are different models of organization of the Coast Guard. We were convinced that this model that we're proposing in this step is actually the best and the most adequate and, to put it that way, the most painless. And then eventually in accordance with the needs and further development and strategy, actually the concept of where the Adriatic will go. From whether or not we're going to have Company, Adriu, aren't we? Whether we're going to develop nautical tourism of this kind or that kind and not going, whether or not there's still, I don't know, going to be some special economic activity on the coast. Then that concept is being upgraded. Lately, you have had the opportunity to read and listen about the fact that in the concept and around the Coast Guard, the Coast Guard should be formed within the Croatian Navy. I'm actually looking at this whole story for you. That it's another way not to get to the Coast Guard. Because I don't actually see what the role of the Croatian Navy would be in the Coast Guard. In fact, I see her role in the Coast Guard, but I don't see the Coast Guard in the Croatian Navy. Here you have had opportunity to hear, read, and there will probably still be plenty of talk about that there are countries like Norway, like Britain that actually have within the Navy organized Coast Guard. But be careful, but this same Britain, I'll take it as an example, this same Britain, among other things, has a double concept of organising the Coast Guard. One of your concepts is for closed seas and canals, it's La Manche and St. Yuri's channel, actually, where there's no navy. But where is the Navy involved? To the open seas, to the oceans. It's exactly the same story for Norway. Now, if this Parliament or Croatian government wants to decide to develop the Croatian Navy in a way that develops the Coast Guard, okay. Then that should be said, but at this point I do not see at all reason for purely civil affairs to be competent, let's say, the Croatian Navy. That's what my colleague Perusko was talking about. Imagine Kresimir IV. So he controls the tourist vessels. And to come to you and to lean on your yacht. One who doesn't know, say, what your cannons are and that actually a gunner can't stand when he's got any seas can't stand in place because it's a boat like that. But, then, I'm not talking about that effect. And gentlemen, come on, we need to look to the future a little bit. What's this about? Croatia will become a part of Europe. That's not controversial. In a year, two days, I hope, or five, I hope as soon as possible. Now you know how the Adriatic will take care of you? Well, as far as the border's concerned, the Adriatic is guarded on the Otrant. Two cannons or two frigates are placed below, and you have the whole of the Adriatic closed down, because the Adriatic as a closed sea will be in the Schengen system, or there will be no border like that between Italy and Croatia today. And normally, Slovenia. We're dealing with a series of problems with the Coast Guard. Here we have again an incident with fishermen. Much easier with the Coast Guard, this type of incident will be solved before such conditions can be better achieved, so contacts and civil co-operation, for example, the Coast Guards of Italy, the Coast Guards of Croatia, the Coast Guards of Slovenia, than these usually do, to call them, repressive parts of the system like the police and like the military. Now, okay, if that's the question that Croatia needs the Croatian Navy in the Coast Guard, then I don't mind. But I need someone to explain it to me. Not to me, but to the Croatian public. If Croatia needs, let's say, I don't know, a frigate of 6 or 8 thousand gross registration tones on which there will be 3 or 4 helicopters, let's say, a type of Britain or a type of Norway, then okay. But why do we need that? We have islands, on every island helipad, on every helipad there can be helicopters and from every island to the furthest line at sea, even to Italy you can reach in an hour, two hours. Not really. So why do we now complicate the whole story when we actually have a very simple, clear possibility of getting this concept and the Coast Guard very quickly? So obviously by inserting different new models that I don't think can be reasoned properly, discreetly, I just feel like someone in this country doesn't want to form the Coast Guard again. So there are some partial, private interests. I don't know, so every chief of the sea police wants to have four vessels, every port captain wants to have two or five vessels, every church, etc. In one sentence to try to simplify things. So this whole story is imagined to be on one ship, to say so vividly, we have all the services, don't take it literally, all the services that care about safety and protection of the sea. From state inspector to customs. Because just be careful, I mentioned the Shengen and I mentioned the border. Croatia will then need small vessels to control internal waters, territorial waters and seas, or port waters. Here's another thing, after all. I think that if for the reasons of politics, the way this Parliament works, therefore, this law will probably not experience its continuity, or any realisation, I would at least appeal to adopt the conclusion proposed by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. That at least in a certain way, the government is bound to go out with some kind of model and proposal and talk about it for the next six months. Because if we don't, in the next few months and next summer, summer is always the key because the coast and the sea are stifled. We have to do this. Here's my appeal, and, I don't know, I'm calling these colleagues from the sea downstairs to get involved in this story because I think we're all interested in it, but down from the sea, here's what I'm saying, a little different though, and if you want to personally experience everything together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37736	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative said the following sentence: "It is likely that the representatives of this House will mature for this matter." That's incorrect. I think that the representatives are mature on this subject, and that the response is weak in debate because we all know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has formed an inter-resour commission and has given it the task to come up with a proposal to be proposed by this Parliament. For several months now, the Interdepartmental Commission has been working on a problem that is very complex and cannot be resolved in a parliamentary debate. The proposal that this commission will come out with, I think, within one month to two days and that's why, not our maturity. That's why we didn't answer for the hearing. I think that's what the billman knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37738	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since the meeting of the Croatian Parliament is held at 7:00 p.m., the hall should be free to prepare for the session. So I ask that the papers that are to be put under the bench or not be visible. And we would be working on these dots that we have today, normally until half past two, and then we'd be taking a break by 3:00. And then we'd keep working until 16 and 15, and at 16 and 30, we'd have an addition to the agenda and vote. So from 16 to 30 to 17 hours, given the number of points discussed and the establishment of the agenda, we can discuss the completion of the agenda in half an hour and vote on these points of 5, 6 which we have absorbed in the debate these days. So, it was laying down a proposal to supplement the agenda and vote in 16 and 30, half five. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37739	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The sovereignty of the Adriatic Sea, the island and the coast, or how some like to show the most valuable part we have, which we have to prove every day, it is proved to be what sovereignty means in some field, which is whether we control, whether we control and whether we are dominant in this area and whether at any moment we can say that that part of the territory that we need to control, which we need to be economically used to protect from all others on one side but also the question of security as a global concept on the other side, is the answer to the question of how sovereign we are in our position in the Adriatic Sea in the Adriatic Islands. Of course, it has been a public debate for a long time, a professional debate on what level and within what organisations is the best and most qualitative protection of Croatian interests, preserve stability and security, regulate everything that belongs to this area, and in which way a state such as Croatia has very limited capacity in terms of financial resources, in terms of human potential, while at the same time having challenges over a thousand islands and islands, has the challenges of a huge aquatorium, has additional obligations resulting from the ecological and fishing zone, has additional obligations that Europe has before us a system of security, has additional obligations, given that this is one of the most vulnerable territories in Europe in terms of illegal crossings, in terms of drug trafficking, in terms of all those illegal and illegal actions that can be carried out in that area in view of the legal and organisational character of that area, and it is very vulnerable, it is partially unorganised and cannot be fully stated that Croatia has complete sovereignty in this area. Of course, the Coast Guard is a good answer and a good way to address all these shortcomings, and how Croatia can fulfill its basic role but how to create preconditions for both the economy and for ensuring the relative security that is necessary to carry out very important activities such as tourism and other activities. And the Coast Guard is an absolutely acceptable solution and a solution that has different forms in the world as it is stated on the basis of which they are organized. We at the HSS Club hold that the way the Coast Guard is organised should be derived from our needs, from the circumstances in which we are also from the real possibilities of our financial capacities above all. And to do so, we must make sure that the existing structures that are in one way or another are located in that area in various organisational forms as much as possible must be integrated into the Coast Guard system. Of course, there has always been an opinion with us that the Croatian Navy is the Ministry of Defence one of the very important components and also a new role and place that the Ministry of Defence and, in particular, the Navy in the modern world says that the trend of military goals is replaced by the trend of civil support, civil engagements and all that the Croatian Navy can do and can be a very important component in the overall structure of the Coast Guard organisation. And that in this system of command should not be put into the context of organisational form, and we believe that the Croatian Navy should also be in this organisational form. Two key reasons why the Navy. We believe that the Croatian Navy is necessary to develop further, because at this point it is not an overly serious segment that could perform not only its constitutional tasks but also these supporting civilian tasks that are also very important in the modern world. Therefore, the development and reorganisation of the Croatian Navy is too expensive a term and too expensive a challenge for our financial potential and therefore it is necessary for other organisational forms and the Coast Guard is, of course, one of them where the development of the Croatian Navy would be, I will not say well, drowned but would join the coast guard and where investment in the Croatian Navy would be an investment in the coast guard. This would also strengthen the military potential of the Republic of Croatia, all of those constitutional categories to be guaranteed by the Croatian Navy, but also the potential of the Coast Guard in all those efforts and tasks that the Coast Guard has ahead of it, and these are the moments in those circumstances where no one else can react, when it cannot come to Palagruža, but let's say Krešimir IV. There should then be just an associated coordination or a common body for us that will act in such exceptional and exceptional circumstances in which human lives are either saved or the sovereignty of the Croatian Sea and the Adriatic is protected in general. Therefore, it is also the only proof that you are sovereign if at any time you can be in the position you need to be. Therefore, these are reasons, regardless of the command vertical which it will look like, according to the proposed text of this Law, we absolutely have nothing against it, as we have no objection to the proposal of this law which we will support in the first reading and we think that, with certain repairs and additions, this Law can be adapted to comply with the needs of the Republic of Croatia, but what is even more important is in line with the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. There is no need, I must repeat again for the sake of clarity that the Croatian Navy is developing only a military component and that the Coast Guard is developing as a single civilian co-ordinated component in which only part of the experience will be applied, em resources. Therefore, we hold that for this way of thinking there is room for time, coordination of the Ministry that should have proposed certain solutions that should be operational already in this tourist season, unfortunately somewhat delayed, we do not know the reasons why the whole solutions did not appear. But we believe that this bill is also a good incentive for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consolidate its own views and opinions on this inter-resor action at the Ministry to try to synthesize the total potential available, the goals that are to be achieved as soon as possible, and I also think that this is a good opportunity to send one message precisely at the level of the global security of geostrategics in these areas where, as I have said, this border is the most vulnerable part of Europe at all, and in all the debates that have been on security and stability in these areas, the overall area of the Adriatic Sea is just as precise as the most sensitive space that has its strategic deficiencies in terms of security. That is why strengthening this component gives us a very strong response to the sovereignty of our dominant setting on the Adriatic, we give very clear criteria that we will manage in some future days, we very strongly stress that the economic belt is something that the Republic of Croatia is seeking. Therefore, this can serve us as one step and as one step ahead of others and also some of our neighbors that we have the strength to solve this issue of a different coast guard in the context of existing resources through efficiency. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this bill. The remarks we have will be referred to the Proposer. We hope that a medium solution will be found to continue the debate under this bill. It would be welcome and I think it is appropriate to expect that a position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to inter-resorial considerations on how to arrange, organise a coast guard and that a serious debate on the final functioning of the Coast Guard could then be held in the Croatian Parliament and that all of the advantages we have and within the existing organisations and services that we have and operate in this area and that we finally all feel the presence of coast guard in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37740	Thank you very much. For HNS Club PGS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37741	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministries! There is no of course and it is actually an important topic that has very far and deep repercussion and the organisation of a security system in the country but also a way of keeping and caring for what is one of our greatest goods, which is the Adriatic Sea, our islands, this aquarium that has more and more meanings, and in fact, as we see here, unfortunately, the ministries do not particularly show any interest in what the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian Parliament think about it. So it's about a very important issue that's more and more important. More important for a few reasons. One is that in the area of our sea, our islands are growing communication, and more and more we expect tourism and transport to develop. Similarly, it grows and ecological threats to this precious part of the Republic of Croatia and the fishing-environment belt or economic belt that we have introduced, one of their conditions to introduce such a belt is the possibility for the state to monitor what is happening in that belt. Its obligation if it has declared a fishing-ecological belt or an economic belt, however, is in this context, is that it has the ability to monitor what is happening in that band or to care for the safety of that belt and, of course, everything else that should be done in that band. That is why this issue is important and the issue of the Coast Guard today is more important than before. So, because of this increased communication, but also because of the announcement of a fishing-environment belt, it is absolutely one of the most important issues that we are not talking about is that this issue is intruding into the organisation of several of our institutions, our highest institutions, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, this is a very important and important issue and in this respect I thank my colleagues from the SDP Club for proposing this proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are several concepts opening up, and the proposer himself says it is at least two concepts, which is that it is an opportunity to do so, this job is performed by a single service, and that it is more maritime services and that the proposer cites which countries in the world have which of these two models. And with us, I think I'm seeing another model. I recently served as the only representative in the discussion of the strategic defence review organised by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. The only presence was shown there by representatives of the SDP, which was an opportunity to discuss the issue as well. The general belief from the defence ministry representatives was that the coast guard would be part of the Croatian Navy. It is then the third model, then it is no longer the service of the state administration that is coordinated but is therefore one defence ministry institution that will then coordinate all other structures. So that's a third solution, and I think it's actually a matter that's too important, and I'm afraid here's the way we're discussing it today. It doesn't really talk about how we're going to make the right decision. An agreement was reportedly reached at the state level to be part of the Croatian Navy but of course it is not a question that should only be a question of harmonising political relations at the top of the state. This is a much more serious issue than the issue of the agreement between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister where the Coast Guard will be. Speaking of this model, therefore, about this model that seems to me to prevail at least in the public opinion there was not much talk I must say that the Croatian Navy and the Coast Guard cannot be one and the same. It seems to me that they're afraid of losing their powers completely. Members of the Croatian Navy accepted this as a rescue solution. But if the Croatian Navy will only be a coast guard then Croatia will not have a Croatian Navy and I believe that in the circumstances in which we are located, in which, with all the security processes of integration that we seek and enter, we still need to preserve the permanent elements of military forces or security or reserves in the territory of the Croatian Adriatic and I am absolutely for the preservation of the Croatian Navy. Of course, you need to see what the dimension is going to be. But that the Coast Guard will be the only part of the Croatian Navy that seems to me to be going this solution is a completely wrong solution, these are two completely different things. Of course the Croatian Navy and the Croatian Coast Guard will be in coordination, they must be by the logic of things but it cannot be the same. The Croatian Navy, whatever it may be if it even exists and the Coast Guards are not the same. If the Croatian Navy will only be a coast guard then Croatia will not have a Croatian Navy but only have a coast guard that will then be called the Croatian Navy. As regards the other solution discussed here, which seems to me at least in this text in the government's opinion, not according to what was said in this strategic defence review by the representatives of the government, so the Croatian Navy's representatives are on the principle of coordination. However, the requirements that stand before the coast guard in these circumstances that I have spoken of, therefore, increased communication, strengthened demands, increased dangers, following the declaration of the ecological belt, will not be a good solution. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I believe that the best unique organization, the unique service of the Croatian Coast Guard, is a Croatian Coast Guard which, but which must not have the OSCE abbreviations because they are the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, should do something else with this abbreviations but I think that is the best solution. There are too many services here to coordinate, it's a matter of traffic, it's a matter of customs, it's an issue of environmentalism, it's a matter of police criminal activity, criminal activity. And I don't think it's going to be a good thing that there's no single coordination in these circumstances, and I think this is a solution to track down the best solutions that countries have that have so dominant share of marine space in their overall geographical position. And I therefore believe that this is a good solution and should be supported in that sense. But speaking of the very solution that was not too much of a speech here except, of course, by the proposings, I would like to warn a few of them that I find illogical in what is set here. There is talk of full integration, and then the waterway maintenance company is left out of the coast guard system and the coast guard on this solution only controls the business and operation of that society, it is not a logical solution, it is logical that this society in today's form is an integral part of the Coast Guard but of course that the state and its bodies and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, transport and connections have the possibility of supervision and complete coast guard and that society, it is one of the solutions that seem much better to me than this solution mentioned here. And another observation concerning these practical solutions, even if these strategic issues are dominant here, which we haven't found an answer to, but I'm also going to say a few things about these already individual solutions in this SDP proposal. This is, for example, that the navigation security administration and the sea security administration are not the same and the same administration. This is not logical, it seems to me to be the fruit of some of the relationships in the administrative structures that wrote this text, but it is a similar activity and it should be one administration and it is not logical that in the navigation security administration be protection against pollution and protection of the fish fund, it should be one special management within or another organisational unit within the coast guard. And speaking of concrete suggestions, a few more questions I would like to make to the applicant if this proposal ever becomes effective, that means if we talk about it in a second reading, if he's close to adoption, I don't understand why the captain and commander of the Coast Guard can only be chosen twice, sometimes he's not chosen, he's appointed, first he talks about appointment and then the election. Therefore, why he should be only twice, I don't know the Prime Minister or the defence minister or the police minister can be an infinite number of times on his duty, it doesn't make any sense to me. And then I have a few more unimportant questions, but it's good for the proposer to hear it. For example, the International Co-operation Administration is coordinating the work of the Coast Guard Captain's administrative affairs, should this not be done by the secretariat? The Coast Guard Secretariat. And then I think that, if this Law has not already been detailed in the coast guard structure, the Commission should not be listed in Article 11, if commissions are to be listed, then they should be listed in all bodies and not just in Article 11, that is, the Security Authority. As it seems to me, not particularly important commission to assess the costs of cleaning and damage and commissions to examine maritime accidents. I guess there are more important commissions, so if these two commissions are listed, then the entire coast guard structure should be listed. So here's the attitude of the HNS Representatives Club, the PGS. I'll just repeat the most important points of what I said. This is an important question, and it must be answered by the state. The government's position here is highlighted in the opinion, and what I heard in the strategic defence review is not conventional with one another, these are two different attitudes, it's too important a question to have him unaccounted for. I have, of course, offered that in what we believe is an optimal answer to this question, which is precisely this proposal that came from the SDP Club, therefore, that it should be a single service. And in this trail, of course, the HNS Club and the PGS will support this text, expecting that the government's solution, the government's response, whatever it is, will be decided, clear, precise and that there will be no finding of any political compromises in this so important issue that is becoming more and more important from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37742	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37743	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We in HSP welcome the appearance of the proposal for a Coast Guard Act with the immediate need to say that the Croatian Party of Rights has long been talking about the need to set up a coast guard, therefore, it is a small addition to what Mr. Shime Lučin is saying. Namely, the unquestionable fact is that we have on paper a protected ecological fishing defeat that has some... Even an economic belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And only this fact points to the need to build a coast guard because we must, in accordance with both the Constitution and all our regulations, ensure, above all, effective control and protection of our internal seawaters, also our territorial sea and normally protected fishing ecological belts or economic belts with the focus of action on the territorial sea and this area of protected fishing ecological belt. We must also ensure the protection of sovereignty and sovereign rights at sea against terrorism, the prevention of various violations of the state border, so we must have effective control of the state border at sea, we must also ensure the implementation of our legal regulations both in the area of internal seawater and in the territorial sea and in the protected ecological fishing zone. We must also enable the operation of various inspections that have their jurisdiction within the sea, means inspection of fishing, customs inspections, protection of the natural environment, we must protect underwater installations,... islands, we must protect the natural submarines, natural resources, the submarine, we must also have an effective search and rescue system, surveillance, all of this we must. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the current situation, you know, if something happens, has to come up with a larger number of people, it has to come out, say, if it's a violation of illegal border crossing or sailing into our territorial sea or the inner sea that happens to us all the time because we know that the Italians even suck at us, there are a lot of these different situations. And then he's got to get out and the cop, he's got to get out and the inspector's got to get out and the customs officer, but then he needs to find out which boat they're gonna get there. Which vessel will come there and until they get there, as they gather and as long as they go especially if it's at a time of unemployment, then there will be a question of how to get to the inspector, and how to get to the customs officer, how to get to the judge and eat the donkey wolf. We didn't do anything, and it either happened to us or that something was done to threaten the natural submersible or that there was a theft of art or anything else that we didn't say about trying Italian fishermen to hunt fish in an area where they had no right. And so only those facts suggest that we necessarily need to form a coast guard. Now there are certain obstacles to how and how to do it. We have to be aware that we have to tie it all up to a single system, and we're not so rich a country that they're going to fall apart because in order for us to have an effective coast guard, we have to be aware that we have to have a real fleet. What does that mean by the present state of affairs? We now have one fleet, a fleet that is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Navy, and we know what our branch is, so the Croatian Navy is a branch of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is quite in poor shape as the Croatian Air Force. So we have to make two more fleets to have one whole fleet. ... The rules are clear to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One fleet is on assignment means under surveillance. The second fleet is in preparation, and the third is in remont. It's the right way to act. And it is obvious that we are not so rich that we would now work part of the fleet within the Croatian Navy, and the other part within the Coast Guard or the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of the Sea or the like. The coast guard core must therefore be the Croatian Navy. So it must be the Croatian Navy because that's how we do two things with the same money that we have the calmed needs and development of a branch like the Croatian Navy and all that ship would be there. So they would not manage it but rather be in terms of maintenance and everything else, and in all variants and versions of others and when the ship is in operation means in terms of function what the coast guard should have then they do the part where they do not have concrete needs of action but are only in control. The issue and exercise of all that is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Navy are being carried out. Because we know for ourselves if the wind or the south is over 5 bofors there is no ship that can reach Palagruža other than Peter Kresimir IV. Neither can those boats that the police have acquired, nor will any other ship come, but we have what we have. And so let's use it and use it. The situation is very simple. We don't have to be afraid here. It's normal for all those things to be commander when wartime, no, ship. He is not a warship, he is a ship that is in, which is cared for by the Croatian Navy. But when he's in the line of duty, he doesn't have a flag of war. He's got a civilian flag. He has a civil flag and therefore according to international conventions, according to anything else, he is not a warship. That's how the Norwegians have it. He's a civilian ship, and in that action, the commander is not the ship's commander, he's a civilian. A civilian is the one coordinating that action and who's in charge. That's how Norway has an example for you. So this is an example of Norway which is a very simple situation. Now around this second part, which is important to point out next. It's true that our jurisdiction is fragmented. We have a fragmented jurisdiction regarding various matters. One part of the jurisdiction is that it should be carried out as part of the Coast Guard within the State Inspectorate or Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy related to these fisheries inspections. Then we know where our customs inspection is. We know that the protection of the natural environment, cultural heritage, marine wealth is in the other. Thus, a total one fragmentation and it is obvious that in such situations it must be on a "stand by" arrangement. This means the system that, as the Coast Guard works, is always if, if it is the exercise of control and control then on that ship, on those ships that, which have that part, are both these inspectors and police and the whole part. The second part is in preparation means "stand by" and the third part is on vacation. So that's one part where you always have to be when the ship is in that surveillance function and control they have to be in that part. Now, if we were to move all these jobs within the Coast Guard, then we'd be in trouble. We are facing problems because the issue of environmental protection is not only in the area of the sea but also in the areas of others in Croatia. That's the question, let's say this part of fishing. There is, there is also control not only this part, control of all products and everything else. So they have to work on land, so they shouldn't go into this part to formally legal all these inspections, all of these powers are given within the Coast Guard, rather than the coast guard being the form in which everyone is involved and acting in a spot and timely manner. So there's no danger of this part. We can come up with smart suggestions that we will make solutions that correspond to Croatia and that we will be able to develop the Croatian Navy and meet all these requirements and needs that we must first and foremost have in order to implement the laws and regulations that this Croatian Parliament has made and to ensure our, our, our, our intensities, our intentions in terms of protecting everything. So both the sea and the natural resources and the supervision of the economic belt and... Let's not be afraid of that part and make a difference when the ship has a war flag, when it has a civilian flag. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And it's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37744	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37745	Kola Kovacevic says that with the same money it is possible to develop Croatia's Navy and coast guard. That's not possible. These are two completely different functions, different duties. Organizational it may be one, in one system but these are two completely different tasks. It is therefore not possible to develop this with the same money. The Coast Guard and its resources may be part of the Navy, but the Navy must develop specific naval capacities and only in a small, very small part do these capacities overlap. And otherwise, the Coast Guard may be the reserve of the Croatian Navy in the event of war threats. It can be independent of whether it will be organised by the Croatian Navy or not? Therefore, it was an incorrect quote from counterpart Kovacevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37746	Thank you. Proposer, respected representative of Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37747	Thank you very much. I've actually heard from my colleague and colleague that even if we've already opened the debate and it's good that the whole debate doesn't come down to just two models. So the model does the military or the military in a certain way engage in a coast guard function? There's a third model. Let's say we have a state rescue agency. Anything within that state administration, let's say, if we had a framework, we wouldn't be able to give it that dimension. So let's, let's try, let's try to think a little bit. You see, if this is a question that the SDP wasn't even on its mind to actually try to make a political profit. We've defined ourselves actually for a model that doesn't cost a single kuna. This model was done to you on the basis of what exists on the ground and what could be done with a little political and administrative will tomorrow, which means something like this to you. You now own the Republic of Croatia about 150, I don't count the Navy, 150 different vessels. Of which, some 12 or 13 meet the highest standards of the Coast Guard. You have these 70 smaller ones somewhere, and according to that job, you're gravitating about 560 people. In fact, these vessels and these people should be put under the same hat, and the departments in which the authorities were part to say the state administrations that were out for that money would simply have to take so much money off their budget and give it to the agency or the Coastal Consecution and de facto people there receive salaries, de facto this model would cost nothing. You see, we can now develop a wider story, buying new vessels, education in Norway, America, etc. etc. No one rejects it, but let's be realistic. We know what the potential of the Croatian economy is, we know what problems the Croatian budget is dealing with. I'm afraid of one thing, which means something like this to you. If we start to create coast guard de facto, we don't start, so we have to upgrade it to about 40% or 60% and personnel and vessels, etc. I'm just as scared as I said someone wouldn't think of buying big military ships. We know in fact that the army is very much costing the Navy. Look, you don't have a real military ship with no $10 million people, if you're going to meet both military and civilian standards what your HSP colleagues say. Now, who's gonna raise a hand in this situation, social, economic, etc. For the Coast Guard, for which 50 or 500 million or all of the same or 500 million of something will have to be allocated, dollars, euros, kuna doesn't matter. That's why me and I in the SDP actually started from the real situation of what might already be the most painless thing to happen tomorrow. So we have people who are trained, we have boats, we just have to put them under the same hat. Gentlemen, the coordination has nothing to do with this. Whoever worked in the executive government, who sat in the government, in the ministries knows that co-ordination was not working before the current government co-ordination of 7 or 8 ministries and previously there was coordination of 4 or 5 sea-supervised ministries. At the level of ministers, deputies, or now state secretaries, it all worked wonderfully and beautifully. We would agree, but the tasks would not be fulfilled at a lower level. I'm glad Mr. Hebrang said the government's solution was expected soon. I'd just like to remind you of one thing. At the beginning of the third month last year, the SDP Club had a final proposal for this law and I think it was me and Mr. Perusko and someone else was with us at the press when we presented him and said we were going to refer him to the parliamentary procedure. Five or six days later, from the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Liaison began the story that the government is going with the Coast Guard. The next story later began that it would not now be a coast guard in the first step but would be the coordination of different Adriatic control ministries and that it would work parallelly on the coast guard. Here, gentlemen, it's been 14 months we haven't received that proposal yet. I would beg and appeal to the government to refer this proposal to the Parliament. I repeat, this is about the biggest Croatian and economic and tourism and that I am not now working on everything I've already talked about. We have to protect the Adriatic. So we have a simple model that de facto shouldn't cost anything in the first phase, and the way we're financially able to do that, we're going to upgrade that model and it would be good, and if I were to say it, if the government didn't actually do it, we're going to do it again from the SDP Club when the business relationship expires, that legally established deadline, again, we're going to refer this law to the procedure by respecting some of the things that are being said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37748	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37749	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, dear gentlemen of the Proposers. I am sorry that there is no government representative who would have heard this debate about the Coast Guard, but their relationship with this issue is best seen from the fact that the government has not made its proposal all these months, but that must be done by opposition clubs. At first, as I said last night, speaking on behalf of the Club, I thank again the promoters of colleagues from the SDP Club, noting that if this law fails, don't worry that we'll all write a new one to keep pace. So, there's been a lot of talk here about the coast guard structure. Your law quite elaborates captainships, departments, responsibilities and so forth. We believe that all vessels owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic need to be placed under one flag to serve the Croatian Coast Guard. Of course, and the Navy fleet outside the wartime should, of course, be absolutely involved in the role of the Coast Guard. So, the peacetime mission of the Navy fleet is actually a coast guard, i.e. doing coast guard work. This mentions the number of 150 vessels. The question, however, is how many of these vessels can actually sail to the open sea under various sea conditions. You know that, the bigger waves it is, the smaller the chance that one of the smaller vessels can sail, and that is why it is necessary to economicize it using the opportunities that Croatia has, but also to think about the future, that we must definitely have ships capable of controlling that part of the open sea, which today is a Croatian economic belt, i.e. a protected eco-fishing zone. Other countries also had this problem and dealt with it in a similar way. Both Germany and Norway and the United Kingdom built their own sea control ships, namely all control ships with joint funding not only by the Ministry of Defence, but also by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It is therefore about the joint financing of such ships and such fleets of all those involved in the project of protection of our Adriatic. We hold that it is equally necessary to do separate jurisdiction so as to give fleets of port captains to oversee the internal seas, so to the island, to give the fleet of the marine police of the MUP to oversee the territorial sea to our border as soon as we meet the condition that our police guard the border, today-to-morrow perhaps the Schengen border, and, on the other hand, to give the fleet of the Navy to oversee the economic belt itself, i.e. the protected ecological-fish zone. There are various models in the world, one model has the United States where the Coast Guard is a private fleet, completely independent of the Navy, but it is also involved in the Navy and its efforts in the event of war danger. The second model is the British model, in this model there is an agency that inherited former home fleets, so the British Homeland fleet, but this home fleet is also economical, that is, the UK Coast Guard agency is also economical, and in certain situations it rents even foreign specialized ships for its jobs, and it is not unknown that, for example, our shipospas has had and which time engaged its ships for the jobs of the British Coast Guard Agency. The third model is a situation where parts of the Coast Guard exist as part of the Navy. And the fourth model is a situation where only the Navy is actually a coast guard. So there are various models for which Croatia will ultimately decide is important, given I repeat the economicization of the construction of ships. We must not put ourselves in a position to have a built-up Coast Guard fleet and an abandoned Navy fleet. Because when there's a real threat, any terrorist, any kind of terrorist, don't give God of war a threat, we can't put ourselves in a position for the Coast Guard to tell the Navy to give it to you now it's too dangerous for us now, we're not capacitated to it. So, we need to think in a way that when we build a coast guard fleet, we are actually building a fleet of warships with ships capable of doing this in peace under wartime circumstances, or in the event of a terrorist threat, we have to deal with that job as well. The issue of command is also important. Of course, the commander of the Coast Guard in our court must be a member of the College of Croatian Navy Commanders, of course, that with the forces of the Navy that are within the Coast Guard can be commanded only by an officer of the Navy appointed by the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces and these are things that in this law or any new one should be very clearly cleared. The second thing is to include specialized ships, we had a recent situation for the French submarine to explore the Croatian territorial sea with the consent of who, is the Ministry of Culture, is the Ministry of Defence at the very edge of the Convention on the Law of the Sea and on the very edge of what allows the Law of the Sea. But in any case, it shows that this country with an extremely rich submarine does not have its own specialized submarine to explore its submarine and protect it. There are such submarines, too, and it must be one of the objectives of our future coast guard not to bring ourselves into such a humiliating situation for the French to rent us ships to study our submarine. Also, I find it completely unclear that a boat rescue could happen and that now the State must finance or pay for that service to a private company for the purposes of protection and rescue. If the UK must do so so that it pays for Brodo Rescue why we, who until recently were its owners to the Croatian State, must do so. But in any case, the Coast Guard must also take care of that aspect. I repeat again, none of this can be only on the burden of the Ministry of Defence, none of it must be only on the burden of the Ministry of the Sea but it must be a joint project funded by all the ministries that Croatia has and deal with part of the sea. And finally here also particularly important note the fact that a country with a maritime tradition such as Great Britain and Norway also have a tradition of involving private vessels voluntarily in the Coast Guard composition, somewhere it is not voluntary so let's say the Norwegian Coast Guard Act or the British have the possibility of mobilizing coast guard ships. We don't want to go that far in this business but we think it would be necessary to make a list of ships, so spare ships with their commanders or owners to engage in the action. I do not believe that any of the owners of larger yachts in the Adriatic would refuse to be a member of the reserve Coast Guard to engage with their yacht in the protection and rescue action. It would certainly be an honor for a large part of them and it would be good if the government had already rejected this Law proposed by SDP colleagues at least consider this model as the future of Croatia as regards the Adriatic. We won't always have enough ships for all the actions that must take place at sea. And it is necessary to follow the good examples that can be found in both Great Britain and Norway, and I repeat and believe that in Croatia many would be willing to be members of the reserve of the Coast Guard with their vessels and on their boat a flame of the reserve of the Coast Guard. So, the Law has shown good intentions but knowing that the government's manifestion is negatively doubtful that it will pass, but that doesn't matter, after that we will do our Law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37750	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. SDP advocates' club, respected representative of Shima Lucin, please. He's gone. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37751	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This debate has shown for us at the Croatian Party Club that Croatia's coast guard is indisputable. So this is an indisputable fact because the current system is inefficient, unsustainable and overpriced and does not allow the implementation of Croatian interests in the area of the implementation of its laws, the protection of its interests, the protection of its Adriatic and all that is to be done. On the other hand, it is unclear to me that some people such as Honorable counterpart Rados don't understand things and he was even a defence minister. In fact, Croatia is not so rich as to throw itself away, that it has ships and helicopters and there are no ships or helicopters in various structures and organizations as part of some new coast guard, either within the Croatian Navy, or within the police force, we know ourselves what our situation with military aviation is, how many helicopters do we have from the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, let us be aware and realistic. To have the right coast guard, we must have three fleets. Three fleets. One fleet now we have, we need to see how and how we get to two new fleets. But it should still be, so the fleet itself cares about maintenance and all that, it must be in the Croatian Navy because that way we solve more problems with one money. We have a boat that has a double function, so it serves the interests and needs of the Armed Forces to the Croatian Navy and will be used as a coast guard. Because that's the situation, we know what our limit is at sea, what all our tasks should be and how to do. Therefore, one part of the fleet must always be in the task of protection means interest in the function of the Coast Guard. The second part must be in stand by arrangement, and the third part in rement. And now that's the most important thing. So it is clear to everyone that the Coast Guard in the war becomes an integral part of the Croatian Navy, Mr. Radoš, it is a perfectly normal situation and it is clear to everyone. So in the war, the Coast Guard enters the Croatian Navy. Now we have been able to solve many things in this context and form the Armed Forces and already work on this part of the fleet's development and for the coast guard that we have not donated valuable military property. We could use valuable military properties primarily in the function of redesigning the Armed Forces and in the function and development of the Coast Guard. But unfortunately, we didn't do it that way. We've donated valuable war property. The former government, too, is working for this government. And Germany has reconstructed its armed forces through its military properties and so we know what the armed force is now like, and it was filled with that time and the state budget. So let us not continue to act so irresponsiblely towards this part, but what we have, which is worth military property, put in place that we can build a strong Croatian Navy and coast guard that will satisfy the interests of Croatian citizens, which will not, which will protect Croatia's sovereignty and that will enable all Croatian regulations to be implemented throughout the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37752	Thank you very much. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37753	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this bill as I announced in a debate on behalf of the club. What I want to underline is we are pleased that this debate has come to the Croatian Parliament. It is good that she came and I believe that she will encourage the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come forward with the proposal as soon as possible, support these proposals, supplement these proposals in the second reading, but in any event, by the end of this session of the Croatian Parliament, we can say that we have taken the first step in achieving the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia as regards the Adriatic Sea and Aquatory, which is the reasons I have cited before. The reasons why emergency and opt-out security systems are needed to prevent and prevent all illegal activities on the Adriatic Sea are not only sovereignty but also dignity. Dignity above all for all those who have been in those areas, above all I mean the open sea, dignity is proved by your own countries that you can be in that space, that you can carry out economic activity in that space, but that you can also have the security aspect of being in that space. That part of dignity, unfortunately, we don't have at this point. He cannot be seen, he cannot be shown and the Croatian state does not testify to its sovereignty in the area. Security as a very important aspect in both geopolitical and geostrategic terms is also not ultimately defined and does not represent the value to be held. Economic interests are also entirely questionable and the Croatian state does not at this time consume all those interests in the economic sense that could be. It is therefore clear that the Coast Guard must be established as soon as possible. We see the Coast Guard system in the HSS as part of a unique organised coast guard whose component is the Croatian Navy. Why the Croatian Navy? First of all, Croatia is not too rich to build parallel systems from its modest potential and resources. And according to us at the HSS Club it is absolutely clear that in addition to military functions the Croatian Navy is increasingly more and more like all the Navy in the world has a civilian function. It is precisely this civilian function that can be consumed within the Coast Guard. Therefore, by respecting the system of organisation and the proposals given by colleagues from the SDP, we want to complement that it is good for the Croatian Navy to enter the part of the Coast Guard organisation, that the reorganised Croatian Navy, both with resources and with the people, can be one of the main supporters in solving those exceptional situations that can arise in this space. The Coast Guard Command may be regulated in the context of a separate view unrelated to the organisational structure. And that's where we can fully agree with the proposer. And the way and choice of command should be left to the structure of the organization. So let me get this straight. The HSS Club invites all those who believe it is necessary that time requires us to establish these security aspects on the most valuable territory of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible to do so. If necessary, the HSS Club will give a new bill, but we hold that for the sake of seriousness it will not be necessary but that we will find a certain consensus to which we are all calling together these days. I think this requires a consensus of the responsibility of all political parties in the Republic of Croatia to make the Coast Guard system efficient, beneficial and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37754	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of HNS and PGS clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37755	Thank you very much. Well, I think this debate has also shown that it is an open question. I am sorry that this debate, the controversy is not led between the government which has its own proposal, or should also be held by representatives regardless of whether they are representatives of one or more opposition parties, rather than that the debate is actually being conducted between opposition representatives. But the most important questions are open. So these are the models that we were talking about here. I repeat that the purest model is the model proposed by the promoter. A very difficult coordination of a very demanding task will make it impossible or difficult to carry out this work effectively in the event of coordination. Or if that function is taken over by an institution that doesn't have a basic task of that type. I must repeat what I have said, the tasks of the Croatian Navy and in peacetime and wartime are significantly different than the tasks of the Croatian Coast Guard or any coast guard. I am sorry that counterpart Kovacevic, as easily as he knows how to do, has embarked on qualified someone's knowledge or ignorance, so he has called on some earlier duties, etc. That's absolutely incorrect. But I repeat the view that the Croatian Navy mainly has its peacetime tasks, especially military tasks, does not have much of a touching space with coast guard tasks. Our ships that today have the Croatian Navy which are the fruit of an unusual history of creation. In fact, mostly what we captured from the Yugoslav People's Army. These ships, our cannons are too large to be operational ships of the Croatian Coast Guard. Of course, we need to develop smaller ships and of course these ships will be reserved in the event of war threats. But these ships, not by their size, especially by their abilities, by their capacity, by their gauges, etc. in principle, they are too small to be ships of the Navy of any country and even in such a sea as the Adriatic Sea, in our part, so the eastern Adriatic, are divorced. Even in these circumstances, warships of the Navy by their intention and size, according to their equipment and peacetime and wartime are completely different than the ships of Croatia's future coast guard. Therefore, there is even the danger of doubling our capacities in this way, of developing ships that will be for both and for each other, so that they will be too big for the coast guard and, of course, needlessly spend their capacities. So these are the attitudes I express here on behalf of the HNS Club. I do not wish to disqualify anyone's attitudes as did counterpart Kovacevic, but the only clean model is the coast guard model as a private institution that, without much coordination with clear powers, will be able to respond to both demanding and increasingly demanding tasks required by the coast guard on the Croatian Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37756	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37757	So I'm correcting more incorrect allegations from an esteemed colleague, Radosh. First, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that I, or the HSP club, was mixing the jurisdiction of the Croatian Navy and the Coast Guard. That is not true at all, although we have just said the jurisdiction of the coast guard is one, and the ships should be in management within the Croatian Navy, that is a significant difference. The other thing, I don't understand how a colleague of Radosh doesn't understand one thing. That it is cheaper to have one ship, to build it and which will be in the function of the Croatian Navy and which will be in the position of the Coast Guard. And when he performs the task, regardless of what he is available, he is kept on the Croatian Navy record, he has a civil flag, and therefore we should also have small and large ships in view of the tasks of the Croatian Navy in some kind of war. So that's what my colleague Jozo Radosh is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37758	Thank you very much. And final review on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Antun Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37759	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I was already speaking on behalf of the promoter last night, saying that this law is no political issue but that this is rather an ecological, security and further development issue in part of Croatia as an extremely maritime country. And I would like to thank all the clubs and representatives who participated in this debate, the goal that we in the SDP club wanted to achieve is to open the debate on the Coast Guard Act, because I think we too believe to say the Republic of Croatia as a country of express and maritime traditions that I am not now repeating all indicators, the length of the border at sea, the surface of the aquariums and all that is similar to one sea country. From this debate, we read the willingness of all parties to go to the systematic regulation of sea relations and that it is generally going towards the adoption of the Coast Guard Act, although the club of the majority party, the HDZ club, said on behalf of the club Mr. Nenadic that the HDZ Club cannot support this bill, it is clear to us, however, that the shifts are evident because the parent board we discussed yesterday besides the fact that most votes did not accept the proposal of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club in this House. Most of the votes did not accept this conclusion, and I believe that this law will not experience its second reading, but in my opinion it is a significant second conclusion which was unanimous, meaning it was also supported by representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community on the parent board, the Maritime Committee, and it literally reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to refer to the Croatian Parliament hastily in the procedure of the proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia to take effect by June 2006 at the latest. So, according to this conclusion, if this House accepts it and thus commits to the government, our sailors would get a clear signal that this situation at sea that the government today is going to improve and that we will have an effective coast guard from the next tourist season. Now what models? We have suggested one model, I have already said on behalf of the promoter that the world knows two models and two structures of the organization in principle. One model is a uniquely formed coast guard proposed by the SDP club and another model is so-called. coordinate model. We know, I don't want to bother now, in which countries are dominated by which model, but besides this unique and co-ordinated, there is both civilian and military or semi-military coast guard. We in the SDP have decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a model of a single service and a coast guard as a civilian institution. These models can certainly be discussed, and other models can be proposed. It's also possible to complete this law. I already said on behalf of the promoter last night that we do not claim to go... that possible repairs are possible, that different approaches and different models are possible. However, the adoption of the Coast Guard Act is clearly necessary and this was the fundamental objective of the SDP club. As counterpart Lucin had already said, we had the first presentation of our proposal to the public in May of last year, and of course we expected that the government would refer its text to the Parliament procedure of the proposal of the Coast Guard Act and, as I said yesterday when it had not happened, we addressed this proposal and we expected, at the very least, that the Government, in parallel with our proposal, would refer its text to the proposal which would satisfy us, because I say this is not about the political but key, developmental, environmental and security issue. Given that the Government's representative is not present at this session, which certainly does not satisfy me, and I think that the presence of the government's representatives was necessary during this debate, I would be obliged to point out the allegations, the opinion of the Government which does not accept our proposed model, but allow me to refer to some of the discussions that have been conducted, to some specific proposals or opinions of certain clubs, or representatives. As for the position not to create a parallel fleet of its own that stemmed from yesterday's debate with visiting counterpart Tonci Tadic, I think my colleague Lucin has already responded. It is not about the creation of any parallel fleet but the unification of existing material, technical and human resources within one coast guard service, and I said that this model we offer does not require additional resources in the state budget, but after uniting all existing resources into one service and after going to the planned and joint maintenance of all technical potentials can be expected contrary to the increase in savings for the state budget. Also, counterpart Tadic spoke of the captain's fleet being monitored by the interior seawater police, the territorial sea and the wartime navy as a protected economic and fishing belt. That model is absolutely unacceptable. In addition, such a proposal and such a view of the coast guard is opposed to an international convention on the search and rescue at sea that imposes a coastal state right now on its obligation to provide adequate search and rescue services in the area of responsibility. In the Republic of Croatia, in fact, even in the former state of 54 years, one model has been in place and it corresponds to another attitude, also the respected counterpart Tadic, an English model. Tradition and volunteering units. This has existed in Croatia since 54 years under the positive laws that are in force in the Republic of Croatia, which are the product and commitments made under the relevant international conventions. Captains, in this case the captains are required and have the authority to, in the event of a maritime accident, in the event of a search and rescue at sea, in the event of any need for an order, not voluntarily, order even though that order in terms of an order in the case of a seafarer, I assure you, and I'm saying it out of long-term practice, is not necessary. To order the boat to sail from the port, so it was the yacht, he was the ship's boat's boat, he was a fisherman, he was a ship of some commercial society. Anyway, the captain's orders are for the most sophisticated ship to sail to the crash site and provide assistance. And never, but it never happened that someone refused to provide assistance, and more than that, the compensation was paid from the state budget exclusively for covering effective costs, so the cost of fuel and some of the costs incurred, and by no means for saving persons, people were not compensated to the service team that provided any damage. Of course, if it was a rescue of a lifesaver's property, he has the right to compensation, a just fee that cannot exceed the value of the saved substance. I'm telling you from my 20s and almost 25s, I've been running this service in the North Adriatic area. The truth is that I still have today's list in my notebook in every port and port of persons and boats or boats with their technical characteristics, with numbers to which you can get in case at any time of night or day you can get a man ready. Croatian sailors are ready to provide, like all sailors, the world's help to those most needed and never happened to realize it. We also had a spare variant, if for any reason the owner or commander of the vessel couldn't get it then we had a spare variant of how to find it. And I'm telling you, it worked very well. However, problems have always arisen in this coordination. Everyone's pulling their sides. The police want their side, the Navy wants theirs, the customs want theirs, the inspection they want theirs, the captains want theirs. And this is exactly the opposite of the government's proposal, we are against these coordinations because they are ineffective and we propose this model of a single service. As for Mr. Markov, I think through this exposure, of course we're at the SDP Club that there is a need for co-operation between the Coast Guard and the Navy. Because it would actually be illogical not to use the existing resources we have. One of the very important aids or achievements of the Croatian Navy is this, in public it is known, radar system Peregrin which monitors the airspace and sea space in the depth of the aquariums of some 50 nautical miles. So beyond the responsibility zone of the future Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia and of course these services must be used. Well, I guess we're not so rich or so wasteful that we'd go next to the existing one and build some other systems. However, under peaceful conditions, under normal conditions, I would say even though I would not even speak in peacetime conditions, the Navy in close contact with the Coast Guard is carrying out its tasks, and the Coast Guard as a civilian institution performs its tasks. And in the event of immediate danger or major threats, even more than that, the Coast Guard falls under the command of the Navy. And therefore, it is about the model Greece has, which also has Turkey and which has proved to be effective. As for Mr. Radosh's attitude on behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, his views are closest to this model that we propose. In fact, it's quite acceptable, and that's why I'm going to answer, given that Mr. Radosh went to the details of some of the articles in our Bill's proposal. I'll answer some, I say, by accepting in the most part, in fact almost entirely the debate of Mr. Radosh. I'll answer his remarks. The navigation security administration and the Security Security Authority are separated. That comes from the International Security Code. The first administration, the Management for the Safety of Navigation, is a purely professional management, purely maritime, which I say, the simplest maritime dictionary, which controls the safety of the ship, about its technical characteristics, about crew filling, about stability, about everything the classical concept of navigation security implies. And this second administration came out of the International Security Code, and as such it was imposed, imposed on probation. It is necessary and would be accompanied by a maritime police service that has so far been in the framework of the MUP and transformed into a captain. A fellow Lucin who worked very intensively with me with other colleagues whom I thank this time, and who were previously during the coalition government at the Ministry, was then called maritime, traffic and connections. We were working on doing this one proposal, and the work name was just the police in the captain's office. But they don't take away the powers of the police involved in the classic police service. There's something else going on. If the police, police officers, along with all Coast Guard personnel were on one and the same island, I would say, on one and the same ship, they share one and the same fate, they pass one and the same education and training system. And then they'll avoid the illogicalities I talked about yesterday, and from practice I've experienced such cases that a seaman, a trained sailor, won't allow himself to work, routines to stop a boat sails under full sails. Because we who are from the sea know what it means to stop a sailboat from forcing it to lower sails or to exercise control, routine control of a passenger ship on the high seas if there are no special conditions. In this way, this efficiency is achieved within the organisation and such services. And secondly, what Mr. Radosh said, I agree that why would it be a restriction that the Coast Guard captain could only be elected twice if that was the attitude. It's acceptable for us to propose. And another one of his concrete remarks is the International Co-operation Board, co-ordinated by the management of operations in the captains, why wouldn't the secretariat do it? It is precisely because the command of the future Coast Guard, if this model was adopted, must work on harmonising international legislation, but much of these jobs are just being carried out in future Coast Guard captainates. And that's the only reason why we've chosen for the Coast Guard Command to coordinate administrative affairs in the Coast Guard captains. And about that would be our testimony to some of the suggestions that came out of this debate. And once again regretting that a representative of the Resort Ministry is not present here, although I appreciate what a fellow respected representative Dr. Andrija Hebrang said, that there is an alleged commission in the government that works. I haven't seen those results yet, I wouldn't say that I couldn't believe that's exactly what my colleague Hebrang is saying, but if it's enough, it's sloppy and that's why we've decided to wait to refer to this bill. And unfortunately, that bill has a date of 10. 3rd of this year, the government had plenty of time to manifest itself, it was manifested through its negative opinion, and I expected at the very least that one of the representatives of the government, or the restoring ministry, would be present here to hear our statement as well as to suggest which negative opinion was delivered by the Government and I would be showing the records for the sake of making it possible for the Government to serve at the possible concept of its proposal for a Coast Guard Law. You see the key words in the principles on which the concept of systematic, effective management of surveillance and protection activities should be based, as the Government states in its opinion are unity and "coordination", which is precisely the basis of this SDP proposal. The only difference is that the SDP model offers a firm organisation that just ensures a unique and coordinated action necessary for the efficient performance of operations that do not, in their nature, endure delays and do not suffer long-term coordination. So far, the action of the co-ordinations I said started working in October last year, although the coordination worked decades back and was always sloppy. I would almost allow myself to say when you don't want to solve the problem then form some kind of coordination or working group that has always received negative effects and what the previous action of coordination has mostly been almost on paper work. It wasn't real, it was paper work, and weeks of meetings, but not action. On the police, I have expressed my view of police jurisdiction within the Coast Guard, however, there is no need to repeat it, and in the opinion of the government, something is also called for by the Schengen regime, at the border. So it is my duty, on behalf of the promoter, to read on behalf of the SDP Club, and to state that the single model of the Coast Guard as a civil service organisation would be contrary to the Schengen regime. In order to make this model work within some other Member States of the European Union. Harmonisation of legislation is a concrete job, so let the government tell us which directive or regulation of the European Union this model is contrary, I don't know it, and I don't really have it. Schengen at sea, I guess, is clear to us, because border control in ports, and the border line is crossing at least 12 nautical miles away from that place of control over Schengen and that control will continue to be carried out in the ports I say are at least 12 miles from the state border and that's business still remains with the MUP. This is about something else, at sea where it is necessary to unite all forces under one cap and it is like in most European countries, according to us a civilian cap because the model of a military structure is in the world becoming increasingly abandoned. I said the perception of a sailor, in the encounter with a warship at sea, that's what I was saying yesterday. We all know it on the open sea ship, and I'm saying it from a decades of practice from the command bridge, so we're all looking at the horizon, and when we see a warship silo on the horizon, we're talking about what we're saying, we're all getting stiff, we're all looking for a national flag to raise it to the top of the line and welcome it to some act of courtship that warship. And that's the purpose of fearing the people of the seamen and we're all talking good to the sea, but walk away from us as soon as possible. Therefore, in a closed sea swimming pool such as the Adriatic, which has the claim to develop all forms of nautical tourism, etc., the perception of the direct involvement of a warship in the coast guard is not acceptable, and it is co-ordination and each one performs its tasks of which I spoke of course. Therefore, that coordination but institutionalised within the framework of a single organisation and with a single line of command. It is important to stress that the implementation of this Law does not require additional resources or additional people only a different organisation and unique training. In its opinion, the government also calls for, for example, a fishing inspection within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, etc., that is exactly what we want, to be not within this Ministry but to be within the framework of a single service called the Coast Guard, as I said about the Navy there is no conflict, it must be developed, there must be coordination of resources to be used, effectively but the Coast Guard must remain a civil service, and it also requires a European Union directive, in the case of, for example, one of the most banal examples, setting a shelter port in case of a tanker accident. Based on which and any indicators, based on the mariner's assessment, the directive requires that the port of shelter be designated and that major disasters be prevented. The Coast Guard must be first of all, we are aware of the threats that exist and the illegal crossing of the state border and the trafficking of opiates and people, but it is not, of course, part of what the Coast Guard must fight but the Coast Guard is primarily a battle for clean sea and safe sailing, and this is exactly the job of the Coast Guard. To conclude, we are pleased with the debate held in this House, it is wrong for us that the representatives of the Government were not here to listen to the views of these Clubs of Representatives and MPs who individually participated in the debate, we expect that this House will accept the proposal for a conclusion delivered to Parliament by the parent board, the Maritime Committee, and that we will thus ensure that the Government directs its proposal for a Coast Guard Act, and I hope that this model, which we have offered, should also be prescribed what is good, not politicised on this issue, but through one such structure, we want to contribute to the development of Croatia as a maritime state in the segment needed through this unique service, the Coast Guard. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37760	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37761	Dear Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague has said that I am correcting that new funds are not needed to establish a coast guard under this law. It takes as much and as much new resources as possible, I just need to see how and how to do it. So that nothing can be done just to reassess it, it needs new resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-24-0.u37762	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Croatian Television – Proposer zastavnik Željko Pavlic, first reading P.Z. No. 273. The legislator is representative Željko Pavlic, you received the proposal by mail, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? Here's Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic.
