ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50360	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me start by saying a few words about the proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school. The fact is that the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks was passed in 2001, and in early 2003, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks was adopted, which did not enter deeper into the essence of the Law, but only the most necessary amendments and explanations of some legal articles were made. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, a textbook standard was adopted that set key elements that each textbook must have in order to be approved for use at school. The fact is, and we can publicly say that in the last 10 years, the learning problem has been settled and that we have better textbooks today, but it is probably not enough and should continue because this legal proposal has its own shortcomings. The law has made it possible to obtain as many textbooks as possible for individual classes each year, so in the same teaching course, the same classes, usually in the lower classes of elementary school there are 7.8 of which are more textbooks of the same publisher and that is one big weakness of this existing legal solution. Indeed, an existing legal solution enables even the appearance of so - called so - called “the law. ” cloned textbooks. What does that mean? This means that that textbook which the commission did not accept or as textbooks which, due to representation, are less than 10% withdrawn from use with very little change appears in the approval procedure next year, whether with the same or other publishers. This puts the confusion and vision of new textbooks, increases the total number of textbooks, and according to the current Law, the publisher cannot be prevented from resubmiting the application for the approval of these textbooks and can thus also be proposed by the Professional Commission for approval. That's what they're called. " cloned textbooks" which really did not solve this Law, so we had to make certain adjustments. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to amend the Law because it has been shown in practice that we have in the use of approved textbooks, especially in high school, some of which are approved even 10 years ago, in which material facts have become obsolete, and which significantly affects the credibility of content and directs students to wrong conclusions and makes it difficult to acquire knowledge. The current Law does not allow the withdrawal from the application of such textbooks so that the ministry does not have a mechanism for withdrawing them until some of the reasons for the withdrawal of textbooks from the application of the prescribed law and that is one of the reasons why the Law on textbooks must be amended and Mr. President and Madam and Mrs. Representatives even in our textbooks says that Croatia has a double Parliament, and this cannot be changed on the basis of the existing Law, but on our instructions, and this Law that we offer and a number of other material facts will be easily resolved, because it will be a commitment, and the ministry will get the opportunity to correct that. And finally, we want to point out what we're getting from these legal solutions. Since it is the first reading, we are interested in your discussions because it is extremely delicate solutions in which the eyes of a large number of our public are fixed because textbooks enter every house. We want to and we will do this, this legislative proposal will reduce the number of textbooks per teaching subject, and will allow for the remaining market competition of publishers, which is extremely important because it is thus safeguarded and guaranteeing the quality of textbooks. Finally, the new law gives us more quality textbooks and fewer textbooks per teaching class, a total number of textbooks in schools. Here, we thank you and look forward to your discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50361	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Committee on Education, Science and Culture, respected rapporteur Ivanka Roksancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50362	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 16 November of this year the proposal for a Law on Teachers for Primary and High School, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the issue as a parent working body, the opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the proposings, the debate reviewed the proposed solutions to improve the situation of the established Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, pointing to the favourable effects of the competition of a larger number of authors and publishers and options of choice among textbooks. At the same time, the new law should guarantee at different points that commercial reasons for issuers and other interested parties do not prevail over reasons of profession and pedagogical requirements. In the course of the further procedure for the adoption of this Act, solutions that would take into account the social circumstances of pupils, or their parents, should not prevail over the reasons of profession and pedagogical reasons. The solution which determines the status of a textbook for a period of 4 years has been examined in a debate from different points of view and is also pointed to its positive sides, but also to the conflict of such a solution with other values and objectives, which should also be represented by the Law on textbooks on our occasions. There was a critical reference to a solution that would not allow the choice between more textbooks to be in the power of each teacher but bodies at school level. A similar approach was made to the solution by which the future would be published, except for one-part textbooks for Croatian language. The working and professional bodies, therefore, shall retain their professional and other integrity by means of new legal solutions, i.e. the expert committees acting at the ministry in the process of selecting textbooks, and shall allow them to be most effective, while preventing conflicts of interest possible in this sensitive business. The belief is expressed that if the best, or appropriate solutions are established within a few years, the regulations in this area will be reduced and perhaps unnecessary. After the debate was held, it was proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, all proposals and comments from the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50363	The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, a respected representative, President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50364	The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the draft law at the 30th session held on 21 November 2005. The Committee considered that proposal to be an interested working body. In the debate, members of the board pointed out that it is necessary to keep the provision of the current Law on textbooks for elementary and high school which refers to "unapproval of textbooks" whose... I quote, whose content is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and it is inappropriate in particular as regards human and minority rights, fundamental freedoms, gender relations and education for a democratic society because there is no important explanation for the abolition of such a provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This observation is expressed as very serious. When it comes to textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, the problem of not providing textbooks for secondary schools and a very small percentage of scheduled textbooks for primary schools, even in minorities with a long tradition of language education and a letter of national minorities. This issue should be taken into account in the allocation and allocation of funds from the state budget foreseen for 2006. That thing, however, has passed. It is also proposed to provide for certain measures which, in order to prevent the influence of publishers on the selection of textbooks which they publish in the light of their particular interests which often do not coincide with the interests of pupils or teachers. In this regard, the committee members are of the opinion that this problem should be considered in particular before the debate on the final draft law. The opinion is expressed that the law should prevent civil servants in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports from being authors of textbooks because there was a conflict of interest in practice. In the light of the provisions of Article 14(3) of the Law, which provides that the selected textbook must be used for four years, the opposing positions shall be expressed. On the one hand, it is considered unnecessary to withdraw a good and quality textbook after four years, and on the other hand, it is expressed the opinion that data on textbooks is outdated even after two years, so as to further use personal computers and introduce a new approach and method of teaching content. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools is hereby adopted; 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions made in the debate on the draft law shall be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50365	Thank you. Vice-President of the Committee on Gender Equality, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50366	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Committee on Gender Equality at the 28th session held on 14 and 15 November 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools as an interested working body. At the same time, the Committee held a written opinion by the Advocate General on gender equality on that act. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative introduced the committee to the reasons for the adoption of this law. He certainly pointed out among the important ones the introduction of order among publishers, the reduction in the number of textbooks per course, the increase in the quality of textbooks, the reduction in the price of textbooks and the possibility of using the same textbooks for several generations. The Committee supported the Ombudsman's opinion on gender equality, which points to the necessity to be prescribed in the law that it would not approve that textbook whose content is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia if it is inappropriate in particular as regards human and minority rights, fundamental freedoms and relations between sexes and education for democratic society. In fact, the Committee believes that this important issue should be settled by law rather than by sublegal law, which is more so because there are a whole series of prescribed obligations, promoting gender equality, both the Law on Gender Equality and the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Women Discrimination. It is also indicated in the discussion that stereotypes are slowly being removed from the textbook. It has been indicated that the unequivocal school system has been femininized but that working with children society is too little. The opinion on which State i.e. The competent ministry should consult the profession on the one hand, the students and the parents on the other and not only the publishers. In this regard, it has been pointed out that publishers on the free market tend to make as much money as possible, which often disagrees with the interests of students, parents, teachers and ultimately a quality education system. Following the discussion, members and members of the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to reach conclusions that the proposal for a Law on basic and secondary school textbooks was adopted in the first reading and all opinions, comments and proposals were addressed to the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50367	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50368	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs! Since the beginning of its term of office and also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, it has set some priorities, including education reform, between 2003 and 2007. School programs should be relieved, classes reduced, students' creativity increased. The system of publishing and selling textbooks and other sources of knowledge must contribute to the stability of the education system. This is what the Government said in its efforts to improve the education of our students because it is both too difficult and too expensive for students, teachers and for parents. Therefore, since the beginning of the term of office, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has taken significant steps towards a concrete improvement in the educational process and has already brought us here a well-known Croatian national educational standard aimed at gradually and adaptably raising the quality of teaching, knowledge and ability of teachers. The Croatian national educational standard is also the basis for new textbooks. This bill will deal with an unsettled problem with textbooks. HNOS also requires a new approach to authors for writing new textbooks and publishers when editing and publishing textbooks. The proposed law lays down the conditions and procedure for the approval of textbooks, the choice of textbooks in schools, the withdrawal of textbooks from use in specific cases, as well as criminal provisions for school and individual infringements, legal persons, so as to be the publisher in case of non-compliance with the law, which is very important to avoid all events and trauma of parents at the beginning of each school year, most often in August, as well as deadlines to which the applicable law will apply. The current law was passed in 2001, changes and additions in 2003, and during this time period there were many shortcomings in implementation and the biggest drawback, one of the largest, was the appearance of a growing number of textbooks approved for individual classes so that in some cases you have up to ten textbooks for one subject and even from the same publisher. The disseminating nature of the textbooks for one subject also caused difficulties and textbooks that the commission did not accept or were less than 10% withdrawn from use and often returned very quickly to school by the approval procedure. The basic difference from the applicable law is also the definition of textbook which is a basic teaching tool and which, unlike the applicable law under which it could be complete, independent or diversified, can only be issued as one part, except for the Croatian language i.e. for language and literature, which means that these are also quality textbooks, fewer textbooks even easier school bags. Article 2 of the Law defines the concepts related to the supplementary teaching tool and are complemented by the collection of tasks, geographical atlass, historical atlas and teaching textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority i.e. and they must meet the requirements of the proposed law. The deadline for submission of applications for the authorisation of textbooks in force in the year for the following school year was submitted. The proposal that we are discussing today sets out exactly the date of 31 October of the school year preceding the school year for which the approval procedure is carried out. Unlike the applicable law, deadlines for individual phases are set precisely. From the application for the authorisation of textbooks, the release of solutions and the indication of the expert commission until the publication of the list of approved textbooks to retail prices provided by the publisher to the Ministry of Education to inform the Ministry of the selection of textbooks, the publication of the textbook catalogue and finally to the parents and students of the list of textbooks to be used in the school year. Article 9 shall also regulate the time limit for the submission of the opinion of the expert commission to the publisher of the submission of the request of the textbook. Maybe those deadlines should be cut short. Perhaps for three months then 90 days and leave the opportunity for the publisher to be delivered for completion within 8 days. So in those eight days, you might even fix something and change it into a textbook so that it meets the rules of the standard. So the number of textbooks in the proposed law under the teaching class will be reduced to up to 3 that we support. Schools will be used in all parallel classrooms of the same textbook. Here are a few examples from school practice I'd say why is this choice of textbooks better? If you have a student at the same school, but he attends school in the field class, and because of some problems, he must continue to attend classes in the parallel home school department, he may not be able to continue without difficulty in getting textbooks because one or two classes in the home school do not have any textbooks on which he works in the field classroom. Or another example where parents at the same school in two or three or four different parallel departments pay a completely different price for costing a book for the same class. It is an important paper of this law and the approval of textbooks for a certain period of time as well as the possibility for the textbook to withdraw from use if it is found that the textbook has incorrect and outdated data which significantly affect the credibility of the content and which refer students to the wrong conclusions or make it difficult to acquire knowledge. Here I will give just one example from the textbook of nature and society from my county for that ancient part of Sisak-Moslavina County. I'm not going to name the author. You could read last year that the municipalities of Križ, Vojnic and Lasinj are part of Sisak-Moslavina County. They haven't been since 1997 or that some companies count up to 12,000 workers like Zeljezara Sisak, and she's long gone. I have cited an example from the basic school textbook and there are even more materially outdated facts in high school textbooks especially in vocational education where a great lack of quality modern textbooks, let us hope and believe that in the reform of vocational education that is under way, will also take account of this issue. It should certainly be pointed out that the paper of the proposed law is Article 8 which prescribes who may be a member of the Expert Committee which determines the consistency of textbooks with the curriculum and the programme and the training standard in order to prevent conflicts of interest which was not in this applicable Law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the law requires regulation and who can be the author of textbooks? The example that the promoter also cited here is often supervisors, counselors who write textbooks and try to impose them on the teacher. It should also be prescribed who, where and how can sell and distribute textbooks because the said supervisor also often comes to school at the beginning of the school year and I will tell the sales from the bag textbooks and students and teachers. During the debate, the issue of selecting individual textbooks for a period of 4 years as well as the solution for the choice between several textbooks to be in the power of the teaching council or the teaching council to propose teachers and teachers, or for the textbook to choose the teacher and teacher himself, which the proposer should consider further. The proposal came across different reactions in the public and media. Some have opted positively for this problem, and there are those who oppose it. Of course, it's a number of textbook authors and publishers because now only high-quality textbooks are going to survive, but also technically, because some are only after a year of use, I'm going to say one word like this in decomposition. The proof of this is a good action of the city of Zagreb which has sent a whole series of textbooks to the area of special state care this school year but I must tell you that a large pile of paper has arrived unfortunately. Most of the school’s public support the adoption of this Law, especially the introduction of order on the textbook market. I believe that this proposed Law will satisfy both parents, teachers, and most students who are textbooks and intended. I hope that the proposed law, improved by proposals after the first debate, will also respond to the wishes of young people who, on November 22nd at the 19th Children's Forum of Cities, have also shown their desire to be reduced and the weight of the student bag, a large number of school classes and extracurricular classes. Students from Slavonski Brod have calculated that the student is carrying a 7.26kg bag, and there is a student in their class who is 16kg. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will accept the proposal for a law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50369	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50370	Dear Mr. President, a colleague, an esteemed colleague has said the ministry has made important systematic shifts in education and education. This will be said when the question of textbooks is resolved, when the question of an abundance of teaching programs is resolved, when the issue of these heavy bags is resolved, and when the material position of teachers, professors and the entire school is resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50371	Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50372	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Law Club Proposed Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks certainly supports as a good proposal for solving accumulated problems regarding textbooks for primary and secondary schools. However, we believe that this is not enough not to debate, not to get into the problem of the school and school programme. Namely, the current situation as the Ministry estimates at this time is very bad because for each year, for each subject, more and more textbooks are approved especially for individual subjects or classes, and as you find there are 7,8 or more per item, however, it is not clear in this Bill proposal that the Ministry will solve the problem of reducing the number of textbooks to three or less as you suggest from 7 textbooks to 3 or 4 and not getting into the problem of solving the school program. As for solving the basic issues that this Law should address, and we at the HSP Club also support that it is not good to define or reduce individual textbooks just to set them to 4 years. We think it would be good to do a little bit more flexible especially when it comes to individual subjects on, say, textbooks of three plus two years and so on. The consequences of this law have been well assessed that if the implementation of this law is made in the second reading, it will be well decided that the number of textbooks will be reduced, but not at the expense of the quality of the programme, that the student bags will be made far easier, and that the retail price of textbooks for individual items will be far more acceptable for parents of weaker property, i.e. for parents acting children go to school. I must mention one more thing that the ministry must certainly mention when adopting a final bill proposal, so in the second reading, that is, if you have studied and seen until now the programs, school programs for lower classes, or students up to 10 years, how in these textbooks there is actually a large number of foreign words that are not suitable for the age of these students and children, so I will only give you some examples, such as the word acoustics, digital, digitality, distribution, patriarchy, perpetum mobile, rondela, directional, calm, visual, here are just some words used for students, please nice of 7, 8 or 9 years. So, we warn that we should look at it anyway when it comes to forming this law. These words, namely, I can tell you from experience, these words that I have stated are actually most often explained within the text itself, in the textbook are in no way explained individually and not checked in the textbook whether they actually adopted that vocabulary, or those words. The result is that children learn words by heart, within sentences, without understanding those words. Well then, after or during adulthood, we have a problem that adults don't know how to use those words in the right place. As has been said so far, and we at the Croatian Party's Club of Rights disagree that the amendments, that is, this law, will improve the quality of schooling by adopting this Law on textbooks. He will, but if he solves himself in parallel, the problem of the school program. So this law can only arrange technical matters. We don't want this to be just some reform for the sake of reform, that this law will solve what kind of a relationship the textbook will be, how thick or quality of paper it is, but simply to make it one way more qualityd. The Croatian Party club supports this way, the intensity of solving this problem by warning that much needs to be changed to another reading and we hope that in the second reading we will have a far better proposal, and we as a club will actively engage in solving this problem regarding textbooks for primary and secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50373	Thank you. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50374	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. This is an opportunity to say something about the general state of the Croatian primary and secondary school, which is the central school blocking of accounts, and then it happens that they do not have the most basic means of teaching, working in three shifts in primary schools, it is particularly problematic in some parts of the city of Zagreb. Underpaid teachers, it's a group of citizens with higher and higher education who were least paid in this country and their salaries haven't changed in years. Insufficient investment in the entire drive of science and education. This year, with all the bombing announcements, the share of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in the total budget is lower than last year. Instead of constantly increasing this relationship to reach European figures and relations and levels, the share fell this year. There has been a linear increase but the budget itself has been increased, so the share of the budget has fallen. Thus, we cannot talk about solving a series of issues in such a way. And, of course, the fundamental problem of this entire system is that the reforms are not well prepared. The more talk about them, the more the media good is shown here, the more the principle of how what is written is much more important than what is going on, and actually when it is being analyzed more deeply and in the process of preparing reforms, it is seen that these reforms are actually very, very badly prepared. There will also be speeches on this occasion, of course, of this law, but also on the confirmation of the statutes of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. As far as this law is concerned, we had announcements in the new school year 2005/2006. with the new Law on textbooks. The law on textbooks is and in the first reading, textbooks are of course in schools, in school bags, and we will, as it says in this proposal, have a law for the next school year if this law is passed. It's another example of how bombing is announced by some big shifts, big things, and actually there's nothing behind it often. And sometimes it's exactly the opposite of what's really a state of mind, because this textbook law is not going to happen until next school year. And the announcement was that it was one of the major shifts, an important paper for this school year 2005/2006. As for the textbook itself, or the law itself, it is clear that something should change. It's absolutely unacceptable that we have 7.8 or 10 textbooks per case. However, my experience is, and hopefully the experience of most colleagues is that if you don't have a 100% or a much better bill than what's in application, then it's better to touch a ton. And I will try to prove that this bill, even if of course there are needs to change the regulation of this issue is not so good that it should be brought at all. What's this about? What are the most important provisions of the law? Of course, you have to reduce the number of textbooks by 7, 8 or how many there are already somewhere and more. I think a number of three is enough to determine in the right way and competition. However, the question is whether other goals will be achieved. And one of the problems that seems to me absolutely insecure here is the elimination of so-called. The distribution of textbooks. It is said that this will reduce the weight of school bags. It's an understatement once with the rightly entrenched public opinion that school bags are too large. They're too big, they're too heavy, but I'm afraid this law will make them even harder. Namely, what does it mean to end the openness of textbooks? That instead of a few little textbooks you'll have a great textbook that you'll have to wear all the time in your school bag and that would suggest that these school bags will actually be even harder than they are today. In particular, the problem is the fact that the textbook is considered both a workbook and a collection of tasks, and it is particularly problematic and completely changing the way so far is by declaring atlas a textbook. What does that mean? That we will no longer have a school geographical or historical atlas that deals with a problem in a whole way and is used in both the 5th and the 6th and the 8th classes, but in every book in this textbook we will have the historical atlas of the part being processed that year and of course it will automatically increase the price of that textbook. The question is, how are you going to print atlas in your textbooks and keep the price the same? What is particularly problematic is that according to this law there is also a work notebook in the same textbook. So the school assistant that's written for use. This absolutely makes it impossible for textbooks to be used in more, more so students to use one and the same textbook. If the textbook will be written, and it will have to be written on this proposal because the workbook will be in the composition of the textbook, so it says here, then it will not be good, and if it will be separated from the textbook then we will not achieve this basic goal that is stated, and that is the elimination of demarcation. So that raises a number of questions whether this is the way to achieve that goal at all. From what you can read from this law you can't. More or less in the size of an object will remain everything as it was, because I can't imagine that the geography textbook will have one part of the geographical atlas for each year or that the history textbook will have only one part of the historical atlas. So I expect that the logic of things from life will lead to the situation being the same as it is now, so that we will have a historical atlas, we will have a geographical atlas, we will have working notes that will be separated. Thus, something can possibly be achieved in the fact that the collection of tasks can be combined in cases where such collections exist and textbooks themselves, and that is all. But it's not enough to claim that you can expect a reduction in school bags. School bags can be reduced but in a much more complicated way, by selecting programs, clear standards, removing unnecessary material, creating materials for students with special abilities, or for specially gifted students, etc. With a teaching manual, so a curricula that will be properly evaluated, etc. etc. So, eventually, school bags can be reduced, but not by the mechanical law of textbooks, it's just not possible. So it's one floscule, it's undermining the right public impression that school bags are too heavy. They are too heavy, but in this way they will not be reduced. In some cases, if the law is fully strictly applied, there may also be an increase in them. And another observation here, that is, the proposer's explanation, says that the necessary consequences will be better-quality textbooks. A necessary consequence of any law. If it is not properly applied, if a number of other measures are not taken, it is absolutely not raising quality, so it will not happen here either. To raise the quality of textbooks should of course have a clear educational standard, the Croatian national educational standard for elementary schools is ongoing, experimental implementation, for secondary schools is still required. This requires teaching instructions, or curricula, and can then be expected to improve the overall teaching process with good textbooks. By law itself, it is absolutely not logical to expect that there will be an improvement in the quality of the textbook, and textbooks are an important component, but of course not the only part of what it says about the quality of the educational process. Here it is said that the use of textbooks will be four years, it would be interesting to hear why for four years, and in these circumstances only one year will happen that all classes will have the same textbook. Once again, after four years of change, one part of the school will be one textbook, another part of the class of the older textbook. According to why this period of four years was chosen. Four years had nothing to do with the fact that the school lasted four years. Why it was chosen would be interesting to hear why it was not for three years, why it was not five years, why it was exactly four years, why this mechanic was applied. Of course, four years should be limited to a few years, but I don't know of course which is optimal, that's what experts should say, but you should know that restriction reduces competitiveness. If one textbook selected by four years or three years or five years, then it should be known that it reduces competitiveness, and then it can ultimately reduce the quality of textbooks. So it would be interesting to hear from the ministry's representatives why they chose it to be for four years, or it was chosen in mind, mechanically. Because the primary school lasts twice four years, and the secondary school lasts once every four years, so let's make it four years. As far as withdrawing the textbooks in case of obsolescence is concerned, it's okay, it should be accepted, but it's not the most important provision of this law. It's been said here that the only filter for work so far has been a commission. So why wasn't that commission working the right way? This, of course, without legal provisions may not have been a strong enough institution, but the question is how did the commission work. It could also refuse to return to use textbooks that are just as explained in the explanation, cosmetically changed. Could that commission not have done so independently of the fact that it was not a strict legal provision because such power and the right of the commission could certainly have been demonstrated from other legal provisions. And another question that is brought here in a very sensitive way, that is to say, into the law, which is the possible illegal influence of the editors on the choice of textbooks and conflict of interest of the author of textbooks and school overseers. This is one very shy way to talk about it in Article 8 of this Law and only to analyse a possible conflict of interest based on family and business ties, but conflict of interest is something that is much deeper than that and this issue should be addressed in a very different way. This issue of school overseers and textbook authors can be a very clear matter without having either, business or family relationship. The question should therefore be resolved much more seriously if it is to avoid the illegal influence of publishers on the choice of students. And finally another remark concerning criminal provisions. Most of our laws provide criminal provisions for everyone but the state structures. Such criminal provisions exist here for schools that will not meet some of their obligations under the law. There are criminal provisions for publishers, but there are no criminal provisions for the ministry. The ministry has very high responsibilities, often the ministry is late with implementation failures and if schools are punished, if they are late to inform the ministry, if the publishers are being punished and it would be logical to punish both the ministry and the minister himself. Most of our laws have no provisions on punishing state institutions if they fail to do something, and then we often have a situation where the implementing rules that are important, crucial for the implementation of some laws are often not passed within the deadlines set by the law. It would therefore be logical in criminal provisions such as the provision of sanctions for schools, such as sanctions for teachers, to also provide for sanctions and for a ministry which is also an important factor in the process of adopting textbooks. As for the provision that four months should be notified to the publisher, I think that's what my colleague Roksandic was talking about, I think it's too late. Four months absolutely too much. You should consider, of course, reducing that deadline. But because of these fundamental dilemmas that I've been talking about, that is to say, unsettled questions, the Club of HNS Representatives will not support this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50375	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from representative Šišljagic. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50376	Thank you very much. Here, let me correct my colleague Radosh's incorrect quote. Namely, he said the law would not be passed until next school year. The law, therefore, will not be held for the next school year but will have it when we bring it here to the Croatian Parliament. But what I would like to say is that, in fact, if my colleague Radoš thought when we would apply it in the sense of selecting textbooks under this Law, then we will not have it until the next school year, but according to the hodogram of the activities prescribed by the proposed Law, we will only have it in the school year 2007/2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50377	Thanks a lot, buddy. The next amendment was reported by MP Roksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50378	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Radosh said the reforms weren't well prepared. I think that's incorrect. Here is an example, the Croatian national educational standard was introduced to 49 schools as a pilot program. So, it didn't work out. Let's go change the program to all the schools, and then we'll see what it was like. And in my teaching work, I experienced it, especially in vocational schools. And those schools that introduced the Croatian national educational standard this year also received increased funding for the purchase of equipment, as well as enhanced professional training of both directors and professional associates and teachers themselves in these schools. So, I think it's a well-prepared reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50379	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50380	My colleague, Roksandić, injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for not correcting my incorrect claim, but for expressing her position. In her opinion, the reform was well prepared and made some arguments. And I don't think the reform is well prepared. The Croatian national educational standard for elementary schools is only experimental. The Croatian national education standard for secondary schools is not yet available, it is only in construction. ... They are in the works, and the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education has only these days submitted its statutes for adoption to the Croatian Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think it confirms my fundamental position that the reform is not well prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50381	I don't think the colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure, but corrected the incorrect assumption. He answered the word of State Secretary Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50382	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. I must briefly refer to what the Honorable Representative Radosh said on behalf of the HNS Club. I will remind, in 2001, when we passed the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school then in this House we made it very clear that this law should be passed, that for 23 years we have one gap in that segment and that this is a much better solution than that the minister sends instructions on how to do so at the beginning of each school year. And indeed, it was a good step in solving this problem, we all rated it. More order has been introduced into the market, I would say, and solid solutions have been made. We discussed it in a regular procedure, in two readings as we do and now, and we felt that we were the best we could do and did at that point. However, it has now been five years and we have now had the opportunity to see how the Law is implemented and to see its advantages and its weaknesses and, consequently, to propose some better solutions. This law is in regular procedure, in two readings. So, in our first reading, we expect good suggestions, different thinking, and we are open to it. Of course, we will consider all the things that are better built into the Final Proposal of the Law and discuss them in the second reading, and then there will be room to improve the text of the Law, possibly by amendments. We had opportunities to hear not only from parents but from teachers, but also from representatives in the Croatian Parliament that certain solutions are really not good and that they should be changed. Well, here's the esteemed representative, Radosh, mentioned it here, too. But the priority is to reject the proposal that it's not worth discussing, I don't think it's best. So here are the proposals for some better solutions, that in the second reading we go with those solutions that are considered better. In certain parts mentioned here, the extensive textbooks are first mentioned, so under the definition of textbooks is also mentioned atlas. I have to remind you here is an atlas, while I'm already talking about it, mentioned as a supplemental teaching tool, not as a textbook. The question is to withdraw us as a proposing, of course, is to accept this possibility that the textbook should be withdrawn if it has some incorrect data and indeed should be done because some textbooks were selected perhaps more than 10 years ago and indeed some data is no longer correct. According to the law so far, the textbook could in fact withdraw only the publisher, not the expert commission, as the respected representative Rados mentioned here. Therefore, according to the current law, the commission does not have the authority to withdraw a textbook in which outdated facts occurred, etc. Of course, a very important question is also a conflict of interest. We have offered to resolve the conflict of interest in Article 8. There may be some better solutions than that, we are willing to consider suggestions for some better solutions. However, I would dare say that this is still a step forward because in the current law, conflict of interest is not resolved more fully. It's a matter of publishers, it's a matter of supervisors, it's a question of authors, so we can discuss and see what the best solution is. Of course we're not to limit the freedom of authorship. We're a small country, we don't have too many good textbook authors, but some rules can be laid down under what conditions, so, under which conditions they may appear even though they were from the school office. So we are open to possible improvements and we believe that in the first reading we can and hear from all the representatives who will participate in the debate and thank you in advance for that. I must mention another part in the beginning that is not related to this matter, that is, the Law on textbooks. Dear Representative Radoš said what the situation in school was, so he mentioned blockages of giro school accounts. Yeah, that's right. The 2001 commitment to the regress that teachers have earned has not been paid to them by the mandate of the last government and the burden is about 230 million kuna, we have so far paid 102 and a half million kuna. At this point, 150 schools are asking for funds, 75 million and 200 thousand kuna. With redistribution by the end of this year, we will provide one piece and the other part in the 2006 Budget adopted in the Croatian Parliament. We'll settle that debt, of course it's a big debt, it's hard to pay it back, but here we come to the very end. Of those 150 schools that, 50 are indeed in real blockade, these others were taken from their giro-accounts that they had either as original funds or otherwise. It is also true that we have 6% of schools that work in three shifts, our intention is to reduce the number of schools that will work in three shifts, and the construction of new facilities has been announced, the adaptation of existing facilities with the aim of creating better working conditions, I will remind you therefore from the mandate of the last government, the C-5 programme builds or adapts 142 buildings in the Republic of Croatia, of the decentralised funds building 50 objects, so that is what the founders do together with cities, and the remaining obligation of the central state is about 40 school facilities that we owe to a state of full functionality, so to finish the construction, if this has entered the state budget by July 1, 2001. You are also aware that we have signed a contract with the World Bank that will soon come for ratification in the Croatian Parliament of 68m euros, that one part of these funds is of course intended for the construction of school facilities. This year we will hire 50 million kunas since in the first year we need to solve project documentation and what doesn't cost much we will start building a number of objects. I must add to this that the EIB 2 loan will also be realised, so the European Investment Bank within the Ministry of Reconstruction and that there will also be a part of the funds that will be targeted towards school building, or school facilities. So the accuracy works here I wanted to say what the current state is. As for the budgets are increased by nearly 600 million kuna, this year the funds have grown since 2003 by 1 billion and 700 million kuna or compared to that year is 25%. We started certain projects and Croatian national education standards in primary schools, external evaluation of education and state graduation in secondary schools. Changes in vocational education were started by the establishment of the Professional Education Agency, which has 26 employees, at the beginning of the year another 16, so a total of 42, and we believe that this will be a much better support for the segment of vocational education compared to the previous section of vocational education in the Institute, which had only 10 advisors and, of course, in the higher education of this academic year, is going through the Bologna Process. Thank you very much, dear Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50383	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, Agent Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50384	Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State said that working notebooks and atlases are not textbooks, but that is, they are therefore auxiliary teaching means, but in Article 1 of this Law it writes very clearly. Article 1(3) states: "The textbook in the sense of this Law also implies a supplementary teaching tool". The additional teaching tool is a work book, a collection of tasks, a geographical atlas and a historical atlas, and it is understood as a textbook by this Law. For the matter to be even worse in Article 4(4) of that same Article, it says: "For one teaching class, or secondary school, only a one-part textbook can be issued as a primary teaching tool." How it's going to get home I don't know, but it's actually how strictly interpreted is it's both a work book and a collection of tasks and a geographical atlas and a historical atlas is meant as a textbook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50385	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50386	Dear Madam Vice President, fellow State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. By the time the Law on textbooks was passed in 2001 in the Republic of Croatia, an old law dating back to 1978 was in force and did not adequately regulate the teaching topic. The adoption of the law in 2001 as an amendment to the Law in 2003, with the adoption of a teaching standard, created the conditions for the final introduction of order into the textbook market. That the 2001 Law has succeeded in its purpose and the purpose proves the practice of recent years which, unlike earlier, was not marked by endless lines in front of bookstores before the beginning of each school year. By passing the law, the market is regulated, but also liberalised, which also opens the way for textbooks of new quality. At the same time, certain problems caused by the wave of incompetence, the objectivity of some committees to approve textbooks at the Ministry of Education, not Mr. State Secretary-General of Legal Decisions, which resulted in the approval of parallel textbooks which did not differ in methodical... And approaches, that's what we call cloned textbooks in the profession, which has been created in certain teaching subjects quite a crowd of interdependent textbooks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I want very clearly on behalf of the SDP club to point out that it is not the pluralism of textbooks, that it is not the issue of the number of parallel textbooks, but that the existing problem is a large number of similar textbooks, so those textbooks that are methodically, doactically not differ, whose quality is not at an enviable level. It should also be said that this is not a problem that can be solved by law, but only by more responsible, more transparent and professional work of committees in the ministry that propose the approval of individual textbooks and, in this particular detail, it seems to us that the promoter has made a mistake by citing the reasons and needs of the new law. The proposer states that pluralism of textbooks is a problem, because it creates problems for children and parents, as if children and parents do not have only one book, and pluralism creates problems for teachers who are then probably incompetent and unprofessional, but about that somewhat later, and both of us at the SDP club are completely unacceptable and would like to finally and finally get an answer in this debate why the pluralism of textbooks is a problem, why is the problem if in some case we have 3, 4 or 5 quality textbooks? Furthermore, as a motivation to pass laws, the Proposer cites the need to facilitate student bags, which is certainly to support them, but does not make it easier in any way in the legal solutions of that school bag. Even as an example, one of the most interesting logical constructs is personally contradictory to me, and this is a suggestion to remove more concise textbooks as if the school bag would be easier if the student would carry a whole school year a thicker book instead of wearing only the part of the book or the volume that is then, by definition of a saucer, which, in a given half-year or educational period, uses or, for example, a proposal that provides for additional contents to be found in the textbook for gifted students, while at least declaratively wanting to stand up and facilitate the school book. Furthermore, the reasoning states that publishers are changing the content of textbooks too quickly almost year by year. And the proposer completely forgets that the minister is giving approval to these and such changes. But on the other hand, it is stated that textbooks are full of outdated data because they do not change and that textbooks need to be kept up-to-date and then the proposer proposes solutions that should not change textbooks in any way for four years. Here, just on a few examples, I hope that there is clear inconsistency between the proposings and the contradictions of the announced objectives and the concrete proposed solutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDP Club, we would like to argue very unequivocally several facts about school textbooks that are very often misinterpreted. First, teachers at our schools don't teach content from textbooks. Teachers in class, in school, teach content from the teaching program. The textbook is important but not the only teaching tool. They're all the wrong thesis that the entire curricula brings down to the school textbook. Secondly, nowhere but absolutely nowhere in school laws as in any method is the obligation to use textbooks. Teachers at the Croatian school should not have to use the textbook at all if they do not consider it necessary. What is prescribed is that if the teacher decides to use the textbook it must be a textbook approved by the ministry. And third, last. What is it that a book called a school textbook differs from any other book? The school textbook has a predetermined content defined in the curriculum and pre-doactical and methodical settings or teaching theories defined form, purpose and design. And I repeat, the key role in achieving the quality of textbooks other than authors and publishers has also been given by reviewers, a commission in the ministry that assesses whether any book meets all conditions so that it can be called a school textbook. Speaking of the definition of textbooks, it seems to us that the definition of textbooks proposed by the proposer in the law has become obsolete for at least two reasons. First, the textbook is defined as a basic source of knowledge and a major and basic teaching tool, which is completely contrary to modern teaching and teaching theories and practices and also to HNOS if you will. Secondly, the proposal for a law textbook defines only as a printed paper release which completely ignores the modern concepts of multimedia and/or electronic textbooks. By ignoring this multimedia moment, the law does not open up the possibility of a textbook future which is totally unacceptable to us in the SDP. A number of concrete problems that we consider necessary in the SDP Club to be concrete and very precise problems with the occasion of first reading of this law. First of all, the claim that a large number of textbooks, quotes, creates teachers a lot of problems in choosing textbooks is incorrect, and the solution offered by the bill is paternalism and penetrates professional autonomy. The Proposer by this solution or implies that teachers are too old to choose a textbook that will be used in the follow-up, therefore incompetent or trying to limit their professional autonomy. Both are things that have been devastating, and so is the suggestion to limit the number of textbooks to three. This problem of limiting the number of textbooks could be solved in a more adequate way because, as I have already pointed out, it was a real problem in the approval of both the clones of one and the same textbook. This could have been resolved simply by better and more precise definition of the review process. Desiring to reduce the training crowd, the ministry resorts to administrative restrictions. It's just as wrong a concept as someone else who would like to solve traffic jams so that citizens are ordered to drive only three car models. The crowd wouldn't go away but there would be less freedom, less personal choice and less quality. One of the consequences of accepting such a bill is that schools will use a textbook of a small number of great publishers, which makes no sense when it is already trying to achieve quality. Stronger and larger do not guarantee quality and such provisions cannot be made in any way related to quality through the use of the final number of logical procedures. Furthermore, the law forces teachers to use the same textbook for four years even though they may have realized after one year that they had made a mistake in the election, even though they noticed that the selected textbook did not match their way of working or simply not satisfied with it because the textbook can only be evaluated precisely after it works in class. Worse than that, a solution is proposed that drives not only for four years but also for all teachers in one school, although they are different from each other to use the same textbook. One of the major problems in this bill is that the law completely prevents the freedom of teachers in choosing textbooks and transfers decision-making to a teaching council in which various interests exist, which opens up the possibility of abuse and corruption. Until now, some principals or senior colleagues have known how to force especially younger teachers to choose textbooks, and this law will make them all present. At the same time, the finest and most innovative textbooks need time to be accepted by those who are afraid of traditional teaching. The law completely ignores this fact and prescribes rigorous provisions that are not in line with the ministry's reform aspirations, which cannot find their material in concrete solutions. A particular problem is the process of approving textbooks in schools, which is proposed in a bill that actually represents some kind of double-circular system of choice that will only cause additional chaos and disorder in schools. Those provisions should certainly be specified, simplified and completed. The law also warns here that the Committee on Legislatives is abounding with numerous legal and nomotechnical deficiencies that need to be corrected and numerous non-compliant deadlines. The law does not contain any provisions which, according to us, should contain in the SDP. It therefore does not contain provisions on what happens to textbooks in the situation of changing the curriculum and the programme. The law does not prescribe the responsibility of authors, publishers and reviewers, and that is necessary. The law does not address issues of conflict of interest of employees of the ministry and of the office. The law does not offer solutions for example to textbooks of foreign authors and foreign publishers for teaching foreign languages. The law does not offer models of experimental examination of textbooks as well as models of implementation of new textbooks. These are all shortcomings that need to be completed in order to have a whole and systematic law. Finally, the SDP Club will not support this bill because this law restricts competition and favours large publishers. In addition, the autonomy of teachers guaranteed by primary and secondary education laws is further compromised. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to make it very clear that quality textbooks are achieved through quality programs and transparent reviews, not by any administrative or administrative restrictions. This law for a longer period petrifies the existing bad state and instead of encouraging innovation, this law counts on a good textbook being an old textbook. Monopoly never got good anywhere, so if it's like that in the telephony, if it's like that in electricity and everywhere else, why else would different rules apply to education? Only competition and constant aspirations, especially younger unaffirmed authors that existing things change can lead forward. Because of all the above as well as because the ministry has been working on additional norms, however, of a hypernormised process in which it is prescribed from how many assessments in certain sections must be entered during the school year to how many parallel textbooks may exist without at the same time normating only what really should have been normised and these are the objectives or outcomes of the competence of the education system as well as the fact that completely unjust social issues are being raised in front of professional questions, we do not accept this law. The ministry should be responsible for standards to confirm as a professional authority but at the same time avoid being an authoritarian arbitration, which is the situation now concrete. And at the very end, by putting new and different contents into the existing framework of our schools which is a clean late medieval framework we cannot make the necessary changes and steps. And in this context, the only dispensation needed in Croatian education is that discharge in the heads of teachers, parents, dispensation especially in the heads of the educational authorities, which is the dispensation of the need and the need for rigidity and which only opens the space for student creativity and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50387	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Vladimor Šišljagić. And before you get any brief information. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time expires at 11.25 for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50388	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues of the proposal for this textbook law have arisen, and that is where the Independent Representatives Club agrees, as a result of the uncertainty and perceived shortcomings in the implementation of the applicable law. Among other things, valid legal provisions motivate publishers to issue an unlimited number of textbooks for the same teaching subject, but also the possibility of withdrawing textbooks with small changes re-emerge in the course. Furthermore, a large number of textbooks of different authors and publishers for the same teaching course, branch textbooks with several notebooks for one teaching subject, a complex and long-term withdrawal procedure from the teaching of outdated textbooks, and one reason is the approval of textbooks in continuing indefinitely. The final result of the implementation of the Law so far has been an unwarranted number of textbooks of different authors for the same teaching subject, a common phenomenon in one school that different departments of the same class learn from different textbooks and a frequent change of textbooks in the same teaching class at the beginning of each school year. This situation, before the start of each school year, justifiably causes students to be unaccounted for but also dissatisfaction and already a chronic protest of parents who have to issue a significant sum of money for textbooks. It is therefore obvious that the question of basic and secondary school textbooks is to be resolved in a better way adapted to the needs of students, as well as to the financial opportunities of parents. In this sense, this proposal for a law represents a positive shift because of the intention to introduce more order among publishers, reduce the number of textbooks per course and lower the price of textbooks. But also to allow the same textbooks to be used for several generations. It is good that the new Law obliges the school to one textbook for a teaching course to be used during a period of 4 years. This avoids the situation so far that individual classrooms of the same class in the same school in the same class use textbooks of different authors and publishers. It is also a good idear's intention to reduce the overall weight of the student bag by abolishing the so-called. open textbooks, although objectively unlikely to reduce their final price. I must, however, warn of the fact that there is a significant difference in class teaching. So in class, I mean the first four classes in relation to the class in question, which takes place from 5th to 8th grade in primary school and in high school. If the applicant's intensity is to reduce the weight of the student's bag by removing the expanded textbooks, then it's a good, good solution for the teaching in question. So for a class that takes place from 5th to 8th grade or in high school. In the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade of primary school, however, this provision may only increase the weight of the student bag. The example set out in the Proposal for a Law relating to the extended textbooks for initial learning, reading and writing of 6 volumes is precisely in favour of keeping the textbooks open for class teaching. Each student wears only one beginner and an apprenticeship, and according to the new Bill proposal, he would have to wear six notebooks if they were united in class class. Of course, I'm talking about the example set in the bill as such and set. The current Law provides for the obligation of the publisher to provide a methodical manual for a teacher who has proved to be a useful addition in terms of teaching design. The proposal to consider keeping this provision from the still applicable Law and the obligations of the publisher in this new or final draft law. Article 3(3) states that the training standard is brought by the minister responsible for education affairs. I believe that the intensity of this provision is not that the minister himself brings a student standard and I assume that the intensity of that student standard is that of a minister. The current law regulates this issue by the current law in a way that makes it the Council for textbooks composed of presidents and 12 members as an expert body and proposes a training stander to that minister. I think it is a good solution regardless of whether he will have 12, 10, 8 members and should be kept as such in the new bill. This Regulation shall enter into The proposal for a law of the school's teaching council shall be binding on the selection of textbooks for a particular teaching subject from the published list of approved textbooks. And it is clear that teachers who teach in a particular class must make an insight into the textbooks between which they make their choice. In this regard, it would be good to supplement this article by the obligation of the publishers to provide, in due course, the appropriate number of textbooks between which they make the choice, in the course of the course of the course of the course of the course of the teacher's course. And finally, in the belief that until the second reading, the Proposer will take note of the comments and suggestions presented in the discussion of the Independent Representatives Club, it will support the proposal that the final draft law on basic and secondary school textbooks ensure a quality, rational and appropriate way of selecting textbooks for eight students and high school students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50389	Thank you, fellow representative. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS fellow MP Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50390	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry. Here is what you allow me to do on behalf of the Club of the Primorje-Goran Association of Slavonsko-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurje Democratic Alliance, I refer to the adoption of this Law, the Law on textbooks. BUT let me start off with a short dyspression. Today at the beginning of the session, we discussed the confidence of the Ombudsman for children. We all pointed out the need to protect our children most in this society. Unfortunately, some events over the past weeks and months have shown us the situation that there are negative, negativity precisely in the system in which children should be most protected, and here I primarily think about the education system i.e. at our schools, i.e. to the emergence of violence, to the escalation of violence in our schools. It's almost like there's not a week to get the news out in our paper about some kind of shootout at our schools. Discuss students with students, students with teachers, teachers with students, parents with teachers, and so on. So I think it's time we all tried something together in that direction. And there's at least a little bit, and this law could contribute to that. I therefore mean that this Law, among other things, would have to fulfill one role, a function aimed at discharging our students because unfortunately our students are burdened. They are overworked in schools, and that is why with them and their parents and their teachers and teachers, they cause unnecessary frustrations that I think should be unnecessary in this system. On the contrary, the school should be a place where students go with joy, so where they work with joy, not under pressure to meet certain conditions that perhaps they cannot meet. So, along with this problem of textbooks to solve this problem, the problem of violence in our schools certainly needs a quality and adapted program. They must also be teachers who work with pleasure. In order for this to be possible, they must therefore be worthy and properly rewarded. Also, we can be at our schools surrounded and complete education process. It should be noted that many of our schools do not have any experts in their ranks, nor psychologists, nor educators, nor logos, nor defecologists, and we would also have to greatly improve material-space conditions in some of our schools. Here, I'm sorry about this little depression, but I had a need to warn you about this situation in our schools. As far as the law itself is concerned, our club supports the basic intensities of this law that go exactly according to the dispensation as the weights of the student bag and the reduction of textbook prices. But we warn that the problem is more complex and that attention should also be paid to its qualitative dimension, not just quantitative. The current situation is unsatisfactory, which we all agree on, and we here at the Parliament and colleagues at the ministry. And therefore, they themselves propose this law. School students carry heavy bags, and parents have to buy new textbooks each year that may only differ in detail from the previous year and give extra money for it. Is that going to work with this law for our club is still an open question? Namely, this law, as we could read it, seeks to reduce the number of textbooks per course, i.e. This law does not provide for the possibility of approving extended textbooks but would only be one-way. The proposer therefore considers that the introduction of these newspapers will significantly reduce the retail price of textbooks for individual teaching subjects and also reduce the weight of the study bag. In our opinion, this law should have been in place, i.e. Mostly in the function of discharging, the total discharge of students, but in our opinion it is not met. The basic condition for this task is not met, which is to adapt the curriculum itself and the programme to the potential and possibilities of children of a certain chronological or mental age. I am certainly also thinking about the need to dissipate children from content, topics, teaching units, curricula and programs that children cannot master in quality. We warn that the first step to this goal should be qualitative, not quantitative. The authors of the textbook will have to satisfy the condition that the textbook must be built in accordance with the curriculum and programme, current or some new, and the compliance of the textbook itself with the curricula and the programme shall be checked by the expert committee. So there's a lot of things very tightly set up. It should also be noted that the planned and necessary programme discharge has not yet taken place. There are therefore, we have heard, pilot projects with unknown, still unknown results, so here we are calling for students to be released as soon as possible. Just to remind you that the promotion of the Croatian National Education Standard was on June 1st of this year, that we heard 40 schools where it started in the experimental phase. As far as the objections to the law itself are concerned, we have several. We also warn of too little or less the influence of teachers themselves on the choice of students. For us, a creative teacher must be the one who is leading the educational process, and in order for him to be creative, he must also have a choice of different sources of learning. And as a result of that process, he would have to be a creative student. It's also four years too long for us. So one textbook is valid for at least four years. This rule is therefore justified in this bill by the possibility of inheriting books until the existing law allows for the succession of books. If the market, i.e. Teachers choose to filter out good textbooks that are useful for several years they can also inherit. Also, in our opinion, there is a need to refresh the materials. In today's world, things happen very quickly. In the course of one day, not only humans are born, but many countries are also born. So the historical processes are much faster today than they were before. And within four years they can't register, record in textbooks. Also, according to us, this rule together thus far prevents the use of new and more modern creative textbooks, i.e. There's a chance to close that circle. Currently, with the existing law, such textbooks can come to the market gradually. One year they're chosen by a certain part of the teacher. Through the work you can see that they are successful. Next year, most teachers pick them. This bill completely abolished the possibility of using new textbooks, if in the first run, in the first round they do not break into the top 3 so in the top 3 textbooks, which is the maximum number, which is impossible. It is only offered the possibility that in this short time, before the end of the school year, without real application in practice all school teachers should choose this textbook. Creative enthusiastic authors of modern textbooks are indeed in an unfavourable position, and thus children. The publishers of such textbooks also, because in order to begin at all they must make and print a textbook and send for an insight of 2,000 schools in Croatia and have very little hope that they will succeed immediately. So in the four years proposed, which follows, the situation has been frozen. Top 3 publishers are selected for nothing if they want to increase the price of textbooks, and the school has committed to taking their textbook for 4 years. Also, it is our point that for one class there must be one textbook, regardless of the number of classrooms. We think that we still have to introduce a change, that according to a certain class, then we can make some selection, because we have classes that are more successful, that are less successful and that should be stimulated. So those who have and who will have more success in the teaching process, and vice versa. And also with regard to the very weight of the school bag, the right to reduce school bags can be done in the following ways, so not only with textbooks. We said it was a very important reduction in the volume of material. There's also the branching of textbooks. Whether to use easier paper, smaller format, denser fill. So the school bag is not only textbooks but also accessories, so notebooks etc. A different organization within the class can also be used. That one of the two children carries one book, not both, some books are left at school, etc. Or to also introduce a block of watches, there are fewer items in the day. So there's this law on textbooks and other possibilities, so we said the weight of a school bag that's really heavy. We heard that... on average in the first grade, I think seven and a half kilos, which is almost 1/4, and let's imagine that we have to carry a 20-pound weight in Parliament every day, I think it would be, or 24, depending on the weight, right, that would be very difficult for us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our club also supports the comments of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and we agree that it is necessary to keep the provision of the current Law on Teachers of Fundamental and High School, which refers to the disapproval of textbooks whose content is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and is inappropriate in particular with regard to human and minority rights, fundamental freedom and gender relations and education for demographic society. I think it should stay in the law. So once again, in the end, we support the intensity of this law, but we point out that the law itself cannot contribute much to achieving that complete goal, and that is the discharge of students. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50391	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSS Club, colleague Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50392	Honored Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on the proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Well, here's a few words first about what's happened so far. Law on textbooks for elementary and high school which was adopted by the Croatian Assembly in 2001, which was followed by a training standard in 2003. That law allowed you to be almost after 20 years... the whole legal arrangement of a very complex pedagogical and social issue. [[You don't understand.]] Prior to that, the law on the choice of textbooks was regulated by the individual decisions of the Minister of Education, which had negative consequences. The 2001 basic and secondary school textbook law has for the first time clearly defined the textbook as one of the basic sources of knowledge. It established the conditions and procedure for the authorisation of textbooks, the rights and obligations of publishers and the use of textbooks. The law, following the experience of advanced European countries, has enabled pluralism, diversity, competition of ideas and didactic and methodical solutions. He made it possible for teachers to choose the best textbook together with their parents. The main criterion of the elimination of textbooks was the percentage of representation in school practice and the opinion of the profession, i.e. expert committees. Therefore, the possibilities of arbitration from the top, administrative self-will and volunteering have been removed. The publishers and their authors were given the opportunity to come to the market, or schools only if they adopted a quality textbook. The raising of quality also contributed to the teaching standard, which clearly but without the impediment of the authors of the initiative set out the elements of a quality textbook for elementary and high school. Today, it can be said that the solutions at the time brought positive results, pluralism, competition, the priority role of teachers and parents, strengthening publishing activities. At the very top of the textbooks in European countries with a long tradition of pluralism in education. Today, following the application of the law, a proposal for a new Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools is proposed. It should be noted that it is difficult to say that the bill is new, only enough to be called new. This proposal offers only a small number of solutions, but retains most of the previous legal provisions, which I think is good to keep. Why is the new law proposed, what is to be achieved, can this be achieved by the proposed provisions? It wants to reduce the number of textbooks and the number of textbooks per course to be used for four years and that one textbook must be used in all classrooms of one class. The students' bags are supposed to be easier, and the kids are more relieved. These predictions are based on the assumption that the present textbook's life is just a year. Of course it's not like that. That's the wrong setting. Quality textbooks have been in use for four and five or eight years. However, the existing law allowed new textbooks to be placed and their entry into schools if they met the provisions of the textbook standard decided by the profession. Here are a few concrete observations proposed so-called New solutions. The first article states that the law determines the issue of textbooks, which is not or is not the sole purpose of the law because publishing and publishing textbooks is the concern of publishers, so the law should determine the preparation, manufacture and approval of textbooks for use. The second article says that the textbook is a basic teaching tool. That's the attitude that's out of date, it's the time of the so-called time. The old school where the teacher was a lecturer of knowledge, when the students needed to remember what was written in the textbook in that single and wise book. Schools and our students happily moved on, they're in positions of modern pedagogy and psychology. Today, the textbook is seen as one of the sources of knowledge within the so-called “Knowledge. ” multimedia sources of knowledge. Article 1 introduces the concepts of a single and two-part textbook and replaces professionally accepted and clear concepts of a comprehensive and diversified textbook. It is not clear why the concepts that will cause ambiguity are introduced and do not belong to the area of expertise which is or is because this is just a new draft law. It is provided for in Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure to provide statements by the authors and publishers, that they have agreed on the content and graphic design of the textbooks. That provision is unclear and unnecessary. It is perfectly logical that the reviewers will give a positive opinion if the authors and the publisher in addition to the rest have harmonised content and graphic design. Would the reviewers and the expert committee accept a textbook without a quality solution? Article 14 provides for the selection of one textbook for all class departments of one class. This would be done by the student teaching council on a proposal from the expert councils. The selected textbook would have been in use for four years. It is not a good solution that allows overvote, different pressures and interests, and there is no guarantee that the selected textbook will be the best quality. Furthermore, the four-year duration of the textbooks stops the author's violent creations, interrupts market competition among publishers, which will condition an increase, rather than a reduction in the price of textbooks. An increase in the price of textbooks will also condition more expensive technological solutions in the design of textbooks. This proposal, which is particularly indicative and worrying, is affecting the autonomy of teaching, as it is chosen from the selection process... the teacher as an individual and an expert, the teacher is forced on the textbook and is looking for high results without being able to choose according to his expertise and doactic methodical approach in the follow-up. [[You don't understand.]] The reduction of teacher autonomy achieved is a serious threat to further democratisation of education and education. The proposed solution will not facilitate the student's bag or reduce the student's burden. The solutions are in the new curricula and teaching programme or so on. the national curricula and the doactic learning strategies. Article 15 states that school appropriately informs students and parents of the list of textbooks for use in the new school year. It's not an appropriate way to say it, but let's really care about every school. However, once again it should be warned that from the whole selection process... a teacher as a professional already and students and parents. [[You don't understand.]] Do they finally have any right to benefit from textbooks and who ultimately pay them and who seem to pay them more and more dearly? In the end, I would have concluded. The new text of the draft Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools can be seen as a desire to seek new solutions based on the foundations achieved in Croatia, but also on successful countries. A set goal could be seen in public as a positive shift, a good marketing move. However, professional solutions are not adequate, and administration is increasing, and it reduces the responsibility and autonomy of teachers, parents and students, while pluralism of didactic and methodical ideas, which is why we are not approaching internationally known and advanced solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50393	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50394	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of a respected colleague who spoke about the positive achievements of the current Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks all in superlatives, and this law has produced anarchy that is now ruling in this area about textbooks and everything else. And I must also conclude that even this Law will not bring about the effects that are planned unless there is a reduction of the curricula. So it's the law of a coupled pots, so it seems to me like it's on that folk's "do a feast, a rabbit's in the woods, we only have a rye". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50395	Thank you. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50396	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague Kovacevic has corrected my opinion, not just a quote. That's his opinion. ... No, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That you can't judge what a bad opinion is, and what a... [[Bad opinion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50397	Please don't negotiate between yourselves. There is no dispute to use the institute to correct the incorrect allegations, and then the opinion is disputed. It's unfortunately a practice and there's no point in me repeating it over and over again, but here we are, are we? What do we do now? Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50398	Mr. Vice President, since you also believe that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that fellow Kovacevic was correcting the opinion, not the quote, and I wanted to look back on that same assumption because he was an alleged, I believe he was correct. I'm giving up my correction and I'm going to talk about it in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50399	Thank you very much. It is next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC and LS Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think at first we'll agree that education requires very serious reforms and procedures. That we can't be satisfied with it so far, but the fact is that the shifts are being seen, that, of course, shifts should be supported and of course with as many professional and less political advices to improve current reforms and laws, given that these are young people who should be relieved of this policy right now. The reforms were thus far segmentary, we all warned about standards, too many students in the class, about programs that don't follow the time in which children live, about the heavy bags, what we talked about. It's all facts, and there's no unnecessary detail we've warned about here, but there's something else I really want to warn you about. I'm sure the public doesn't know that. In fact, schools are attended by people with higher or higher education. They have very low wages and their pensions when they leave are about 1,000 kuna. You really need to think about why people stay in class for so long or after this information, even more? And that's the part that needs to be covered by reforms, because it's clear that young people, people who follow what happens in society, who follow the media, who have a more modern approach to teaching, will be both more attractive and interesting and know how to teach in schools. But today’s Law that we are discussing, or the Law that we are changing, was passed in 2001. I would really not agree that it is a good law, but there is enough time to assess both its quality and its application and propose certain changes. The fact is, the law so far doesn't matter if we're satisfied in the assembly. That both parents and students and teachers are dissatisfied. I'll also remind you of the crowds in front of the bookstores that were as amazing as the ones in the '80s when they were waiting in line for coffee. And we had it in front of our bookstores a few years ago, and we need to talk about it openly when we are already praising laws that have been in force so far. I sincerely hope and want to believe that if we still work on this law and fix that this will really reduce the financial impact on many parents in school that we call free, and we all know that it's so-called free schooling. The fact is that younger children cannot inherit the current Law textbooks from older brothers and sisters. That there's a so-called branch textbook. I will specify only one detail, in the first grade of elementary school for Croatian you will see a full 6 volumes. 3 beginners, 1 dictionary and 2 trainees. You know what that means in the weight of the bag when you compare it to the weight of the students. What do these kids look like when you only see them on the roads? I hope that Article 4 of the proposed Law will make it clear that there are no more open textbooks than for Croatian, and that the fact itself will make it easier for the student bag. I also remind you of the information, with 600 thousand households in Croatia that are hard to pay and municipal bills, and I'm talking about schooling as free of charge. It is good that the Law introduces new concepts as "a collection of tasks", "a geographical and historical atlas" for which publishers must seek the approval of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which so far did not have to, so we were able to encounter both incorrect or very often at least questionable data that could confuse us, and imagine only how students. The proposed Law will certainly provide for more order among publishers and textbook markets themselves. The provision of Article 8 which has not been introduced in the Law so far has been designed to prevent conflicts of interest. We can agree that the conflict of interest will not be resolved only in Article 8, but will try and resolve at least one part. So why don't you admit it openly? It is very clear that a member of the expert commission who draws up a written opinion on the textbook cannot be a person who is relatively related to the author and the publisher, or business related to the textbook, and that is a good solution. As unnecessary as it may seem to you, I will remind you that we read in the press yesterday, although what it means in colleges where students almost certainly have some to buy textbooks from their professors. I agree that it may need to be more specific here, but the step is done. Article 9 states that the Ministry shall inform the rapporteur of the opinion of the expert commission within 4 months of the delivery of the application for the authorisation of the textbook. However, I think that deadline is too long for a 90-day deadline to be sufficient. I'm also going to say something that's missing from this law so we can fix it. So, what isn't contained in it. For example, the expert committee shall request the editors to correct the established failures and to complete the textbook before making an evaluation of the textbook within a maximum period of 15 days. Well, correct it. If we give a 15-day period then it is clear that no major repairs can be done there, but this is the possibility of getting a better textbook, that for some simple or easy reasons not to approve or fail the approval of a good textbook. So I think that provision should be incorporated. Article 13 states that in the process of approving textbooks, textbooks with little subsequent, teaching textbooks of the language and letters of the national minority, a foreign textbook not to apply certain items and sub-items of Article 6, which would actually mean, I will try only one example. That the Ministry can fully or partially settle the costs of publishing such textbooks. This would certainly be good not only because of the national minorities we often talk about, but certainly also because of them, but I will set an example of what this would mean, for example, for students and their professors in the profession, for example, for a driver at a railway school, where only 50 textbooks are needed. Then who would pay for those textbooks and it would be perfectly logical for the Ministry to jump in here. Article 14(3) states that a textbook to be used in school will be selected for 4 years. That's what everyone really seems to be talking to me about on behalf of the clubs. And I think we're all in agreement, so I'd like to invite the proposings to reconsider that decision once again, that it's really too long a period of time. We meet daily with new information that needs to be implanted. So, the deadline is too long. I guess it was only about using textbooks within the family, so younger brothers than older ones, but that shouldn't be the main reason. Maybe we should set a two-year deadline after all. In addition, I will remind myself that with noble intent it is still a soft alliance that probably cannot endure and the other one would be more expensive. What I want to warn you about, I really shouldn't touch the freedom of teachers to let everyone choose their textbook. Which is why a teacher's council imposes its choice on a teacher. It is enough that the number of textbooks is narrowed to three textbooks instead of seven or ten textbooks in schools. It is very difficult to claim that choosing between seven and ten textbooks was pluralism in the follow-up. It's a thesis I couldn't accept. In addition, without the freedom to choose a teacher, the door is really closed not only to limit their creativity but also to open up to schools and some of the more skillful spaces for manipulations, perhaps for other murky jobs. And whoever needs to create a class, we're closing the door for him. It is good, then, that in the catalogue of textbooks the Ministry includes up to three textbooks for a particular teaching class. We will therefore accept this law, the bill of law. I think it's really good that this debate, that a number of concrete proposals have been heard, is concrete remarks. Obviously, we're all interested in this. I hope the Proposer accepts all serious proposals. It's safe to leave the competitiveness of the textbook. There must be no more than ten of them to choose from than three, especially to insist on autonomy, so on the right of teachers to choose a textbook because people who do so in the open world know that. However, we hear little about what should be determined by the purpose of making the law more precise or better or by avoiding abuse. First of all, let's be perfectly clear, school abuse is the least of it. It is a fact that we all know, and if we decide to prescribe everything then we will have an excessive law where it is least needed, so amongst people who are both during poor reforms and in periods when textbooks and haven't changed, they knew how to preserve teaching and interesting and quality, they knew children and they knew not only to educate. I will remind you that there are, of course, days of free teaching which are very interesting projects of individual schools and city agoras. So they're people who know how to work, and they don't need to be freaked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50401	Thank you very much. It's the National Minorities Club and Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50402	Thank you very much. For years, representatives of national minorities and associations of national minorities have been pointing to a problem that has been linked to textbooks for primary and secondary schools. We know that even those minorities who have well-developed education, such as my national minority, are actually in an extremely uncertain situation when it comes to textbooks and the translation of textbooks in Italian. In primary schools, there are less than half of the textbooks in Italian elementary schools are translated into Italian. In high schools there are no or almost no textbooks translated in Italian, which means only to be taught by other aids and textbooks. Of course, it has both its advantages and its shortcomings. The shortcomings, of course, are that the programme is being followed on the basis of other aids, which means that the programme is being followed up to one limit. The advantage is that some time textbooks from abroad that are approved of course by the ministry can be better than textbooks written here and printed. It is also a lack of the fact that some national minorities, again I will give an example of mine, but the education in the language of the national minorities has developed both Serbs and he is now in the process of development and we can expect that in time he will have an even more structured and better-organised education, so that he will feel safe and more needed for what I say now. However, we who have a well-structured education have one publishing house "Edit" which is very interested in publishing books from the Croatian programme, means books by Croatian or Italian authors written in Croatian, translated in Italian, or published by Italian minority members for Italian school purposes. That's what they need money for. For years, we've been talking about money being insufficient. We calculated that somewhere around 5 to 6 million kunas would need to stop slowly, to slowly solve the problem. However, the funds for textbooks have not increased this year. They remain 3 million kunas. So we can't expect this situation to improve significantly next year. Not because this ministry doesn't want to fix it, not because we don't, but simply because it doesn't have the resources. So I'd like to conclude that first part with the following words. When we talk about the education of national minorities, when we talk about the textbooks of national minorities, we need to start from the fact that this situation is seriously difficult because it has not been, because for years it has not been approached to solve this problem and for years the textbooks have not been translated. Someone can manage in a way that the home state can help them. We've perfected a lot here to say that model, and some others can't, so then they have a situation if it's even harder. In addition, I think that there is a need to work a little bit on the procedure for foreign textbooks when it is already talking about it and teaching textbooks in language and a letter from a national minority who issues a foreign publisher. To determine as we know today, to determine the consistency of textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority, I am saying this all in order for schools in the languages of national minorities to follow a programme that is closer to the program in Croatian schools because education is one until it is regionalised as it is now regionalised, for example in Italy. Therefore, in order to determine the consistency of textbooks in language and letter of national minorities, there are three members of the expert commission with experience in teaching the language and letter of the national minority. I would suggest, so-called. I would suggest that, when the ministry chooses and in the selection process, such experts are consulted with representatives of national minorities, i.e. with a committee where almost all MPs are sitting or with a council of course for national minorities. By way of derogation from Article 15(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The "National Journal" 51/100 is prescribed that general rules of the textbooks are applicable to the issue of students in the language and letter of the national minority and that school institutions with teaching and language and letter of the national minority can use textbooks from the country of origin with the approval of the Ministry of Education and Sports. I say, so far, there have been no serious difficulties in this, but if it continues with the policy of not printing books from domestic production to say so, then this problem could become bigger, and especially with the development of Serbian education because the Serb national minority has a lot more of course members and a lot more children in schools than other national minorities do. The serious problem I was talking about earlier when I spoke on behalf of the Committee is that the United Nations Convention on Combating Discrimination of Education in Article 5 says that education should aim to develop a great deal of human personality and strengthen human rights and fundamental freedoms and contribute to understanding the drowsiness of friendship between all nations and all racial and religious groups. On the basis of these principles in force in the Law, which since 2001 was contained in Article 3(2), a provision that reads will not be approved by a textbook that opposes the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and is inappropriate in particular with regard to human and minority rights, fundamental freedoms and relations between sexes and education for a democratic society. Such a provision no longer exists, I know it stems from the Constitution, but the Constitution must be translated and operated in laws without it, for example. in this Law, in the Law of Justice as we saw yesterday, because without it there is no adherence to such provisions. The proposal for a law also contains a provision in Article 14(3) and according to which the school’s teacher’s or teacher’s board, on a proposal from the teachers, or teachers who teach from the courses for which the textbook is approved, chooses a textbook that will be used at school for 4 school years. There is no specific provision that would regulate the selection of textbooks in schools with language classes and the letter of national minorities. The current Law on textbooks contains such a provision. The question arises why the bill does not contain such a special provision, I think it should be contained here. Also, provisions concerning the choice of textbooks by teachers should be clearly determined that this applies to schools of national minorities although we all know there is a problem, because national minority schools usually have a class, they actually have few students, and then here it is impossible to achieve competition, competition of different textbooks, in that we are on the one hand freed to say floods, propaganda and all marketing, different publishers, but on the other hand I repeat there are minorities that are not so few and where competition can also come into consideration and I end up making one collage. We know that textbooks are fundamental in the process of education and that when we talk about high school, but in basic knowledge and when we talk about basics, when we talk about elementary school, it actually serves as a preparation for national graduation. The preparation for the State Graduation is probably starting from the 1st grade of high school, but probably even before, it should start even before, because in the end 4 years of high school, it will be questioned how much I understood the state secretary as you told me, all the knowledge will be questioned. One problem has not been solved here, and it has to be solved precisely and therefore, in order to be able to choose both textbooks and to begin the process, the problem has not been solved as to how the state graduation will look for students of schools in the languages of national minorities, whether it or whether it will or will in what form contain exams from the language of the national minority and what will be important. I took such schools many years ago, and I know that on our final exam, on the final exam, that our most important subject was the Italian language, that was so since '45. By the '90s and some certainly, by now, and so far, we think that the language of the national minority, or the native language, is better said, because in the language of the national minority, the dialect of the tree could be understood, meaning the native language, the native language should be the most important subject in the national exam, and therefore it must refer to both textbooks and their printing and to the financing of that part that we consider crucial to retaining the identity of minority, cultural, national identity of members of the national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50403	Thank you very much, colleague. No more club reports. State Secretary reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50404	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Let me briefly refer to the presentation of the esteemed representative of Radin. I hope I remember all the points well, so I'll refer to them. When you spoke of translated textbooks, of course, that we will try to solve this problem as we have since the beginning of this government's mandate solved other problems, I will remind you only of the question of counselors. So that's what we agreed with minority representatives, we hired counselors exactly by the same procedure as you said you were proposing to be behind the expert group in the framework of the authorisation of textbooks. We don't mind, but that's what we can't write down in law. As for this provision that comes from the Constitution, of course you have the right not to be wrong that it stands in the law and we have said that we are open to all solutions that will improve this text. You're still talking about the state's graduation issue. It has therefore been said that all sublegal acts deriving from the Amendments and additions of the Law on secondary education will be adopted within 6 months. That deadline hasn't expired yet. We invited all minority representatives to the Ministry and talked to them about exactly what you're talking about, and it's well known to you, but it's not bad for the public to say it from this constituency. So we asked them to make their proposals and to solve it in the best possible way. State graduation will have mandatory items and will have electoral items and, of course, it is best to discuss this with those to whom this applies and to make the best solution. We expect proposals from minority representatives when it comes to language education and the letter of national minorities. I am convinced that in the State Graduation Regulation, we will install the best solutions regarding national minorities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50405	Thank you, Secretary of State. We're going with an individual discussion. The first is a registered colleague Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50406	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, here indeed today in Croatia to belong to a lobbyist group is not popular but there is one lobby for which all of us as parliamentary representatives have the right to lobby or one lobby for whose interests we have and moral, but also other obligations to lobby. It's about the parents' lobby, the teacher's lobby, the children's lobby, so all the professional and other public who participated in the various discussions on this topic of the amendment and addition of the Law on textbooks. And this argument that has been heard in the media in recent months actually shows the most why this parent and teacher lobby has gained a large majority of the public in itself, and I think it would really be harmful, in this sense, that after discussing this proposal for amendments and additions to the law, it remains somehow hanging in the air that only the Government and that only the competent Ministry as a proposer of this Law do not in any way reflect those messages in the public that were heard by teachers. What we also had a chance to hear in this regard, but I really think that this is quite secondary and that the issue of this publishing interest of the great publishers arising from this bill really lies ahead of the arguments of this first lobby and teachers and parents. In my presentation, I would like to rely in fact on those arguments which are very, in a very good way both teachers and parents in some way disproved in the sense that these arguments themselves are also in the light of this amendment and the addition of the law. For example, both parents and teachers advocate the competition of titles. Speaking of how exactly the competition of titles, the competition of textbooks can contribute and enable the quality of work in schools. On the other hand, by stating the same argument that it is intended to improve the quality of textbooks and teaching processes, the government is saying that it is important to limit the number of titles or the number of textbooks to 3 titles per case and further to petrify the whole situation to 4 years. So there's one fact that everyone agrees on, and that's that you need to work on the quality of the textbooks, but obviously there's a different vision, are different concepts of how to achieve that quality? In this regard, I would point out in any case that exactly the expert commission tasked with assessing the quality of the textbook should play a key role and that this commission should be given an expert evaluation of the textbook and that we must trust in the profession. I believe that the scope of each expert commission's work is broad and such an expert commission should be able to provide logistic and other assistance to promote in a quality way all textbooks that, according to each case and for each individual year, are approved and that we must not in any way discuss these expert committees with categories or incompetence or therefore some interests which are attempted by the author of the textbook or some publishing interests. Besides, there was a lot of talk about what to do to reduce the weight of a student's bag? And again, the public on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Ministry or the Proposer have a different concept of how to reduce the weight of a student's bag? On the one hand, teachers and parents say that it was precisely the branching of the textbooks that allowed the carrying of that day only the notebook needed for teaching to enable the student bag to be easier than the Government proposal so that it would prevent the disseminating of the textbook or that one textbook for one subject should even be worn throughout the course of the school year in its bag, and of course, if it is only one notebook that the notebook is completely harder than the possibility of individually carrying more notebooks in different terms. Furthermore, there was another argument of the expensive textbook, and I also think, and that is what the public said that the textbook is cheaper if only one part of it is expendable material. Because in that situation, then, those notebooks in which nothing is included can indeed be inherited. And those notebooks in which something is entered are quite clear that they cannot be inherited. So neither generation behind specifically in one school nor, for example, can be inherited then textbooks from older brothers and sisters. So here's the problem that we've located, so the textbooks are too expensive, and I'm afraid this proposed solution is not working on anything, on that plan. On the other hand, the fact is that the awareness of keeping textbooks should also be developed with our students. This consciousness once existed and the same question should be asked why it does not exist today, and why are students today inclined to destroy textbooks? But the answer is probably that they tend to destroy textbooks because they know that the textbook next year can no longer be worth it. The problem, of course, is highlighted in several places, in the very number of textbooks, in their quantity and number, and on the other hand, the law did not treat the problem that school supervisors are the authors of textbooks and that this is about the obvious conflict, conflict of interest. One of the problems that everyone pointed out again is the problem of compliance with the content of textbooks with scientific achievements and therefore that textbooks must be in line with new knowledge in teaching theory and practice. But the fact is that it is this kind of petrification of the textbook in four years makes it impossible for the content of things to move forward. And that's why I don't think it would be bad for the expert committees to, among other things, be in charge of carrying out, dealing with those who are authorized to conduct and say some one-year review of textbooks, so that all textbooks come back in some way to check and to correct themselves in those parts that no longer correspond to the real state. There's been a lot of talk about this subject of monopoly, there's talk about the Anti-Creation Act, about opting out, about the lobby of the great publishers, and I don't think it should have been the terms that were supposed to be used in this debate, and I think it would be very important that, on the basis of the debates that will be held in the Assembly today, however, it would try to amend and supplement the law itself in the second reading. Or, as we have already established, we have found these points that are problematic and we know that they need to be solved then we are still going towards their resolution, and I'm afraid in this case it's simply happened that the problem that has been diagnosed is trying to sort out in some way that is not in line with what the public is, which are teachers, which parents have recognized as a problem. After all, this 10% census that the textbook has to have in order to stay on the list I think is very good because the textbook that would be returned from the expert commission does not mean that it will return to class. Because if he is unquality, teachers will still not choose, and on the other hand, limiting to three titles is not good because everyone needs to be given a chance. You should give the author the opportunity, and the textbook and the parent and teacher, but of course...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50407	Time fellows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50408	Thank you very much. But, of course, you should give the child the opportunity to gain as much knowledge and competence as possible with the help of the textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50409	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50410	counterpart Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic said that the concept of the proposal is that by eliminating the disseminating of the textbooks, the number of textbooks and the weight of the bag are reduced. However, this is not clear from what the applicant has proposed. The proposer proposes 2 categories of textbooks, a basic teaching tool and says it must be one textbook, but it also introduces an additional teaching tool and does not say how much of these additional teaching tools that are the same textbooks can be. Therefore, the basis of this law is likely to be the final solution, as the proposer does so to regulate it will be that the basic teaching tool will be one textbook, that the work book as an additional teaching tool will be the second textbook and that ultimately the geographical or historical atlas will be the third textbook. Therefore, this concept, declared by the motionary, did not actually dare to put into law. She's not in the law clearly laid down. Therefore, it may ultimately be that there will be no weight reduction of the bag, even in the way that the proposer cites it as declaratively as its concept, since, of course, publishers and parents will be guided by a logic that will not be against the law. That they have one basic textbook, that they have a work book that will be difficult to fit into the basic textbook and eventually have a geographical atlas. Therefore, it will remain for geography, history, and other similar items, actually 3 textbooks. Therefore, there will be no suspension of the branch, and thus no reduction of the school bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50411	Thank you very much. A colleague has the right to reply to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50412	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what this is about. So both the promoter and the public have diagnosed the problem, and that is the weight of the school bag, but there are different concepts of how this problem is meant to be overcome. This present case, therefore, does not mean that, in addition to the individual volume that the student carries on teaching that he did not wear other teaching aids, such as geographical atlas, perhaps some classrooms or something like that. And in the perspective of course, the students will still have to wear a geographical atlas, of course, until we build such schools that will allow the student to leave some of those books and textbooks in some kind of space that will personally be able to hold under the key. So, the problem is diagnosed, but it is now up to us to actually find the most qualitative solution to how to reach this problem and in this situation, it is certainly a more appropriate solution to leave the possibility for branch textbooks than to do them and actually allow the student to carry an even more difficult book in his bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50413	Thank you very much. The next representative is Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50414	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks, which has only 20 articles, discusses the professional commission, discusses the role and powers of the minister, the publisher, the author of textbooks, the articles, the titles of textbooks. There's no mention of a student anywhere. There's no mention of a student, no mention of a student. It can't even be in this law that had the ambition to lay the groundwork exactly what might later be developed by a learning standard and other data. I share the opinion of those who believe that if it gets the form of the law, it would open up a really big manipulative space for corruption, because many things are not solved essentially, only formally, that it would limit the freedom of teachers, that it would limit the freedom of the author of textbooks. In short, it would violate the quality of the textbooks. He's basically vague. It is immediately claimed to be approved every year, and will be used for 4 years. And as such, it will certainly not achieve what is from the ministry, which has been announced by the government that children will no longer learn a bunch of excess data, numbers, that they will not be burdened with complicated concepts, that school lessons will be reduced. The teachers themselves say that they are not prepared enough, that they are not informed enough, that there are insufficient seminars and that we are not talking about material assumptions. And in large cities there are schools, elementary schools that work in three shifts, where windows, where classrooms don't even get to see through. And so this is the situation where we discuss this law, our reality, which the law doesn't care about at all, or mention. I wish I had in mind today's situation in which teachers face a student, in which it is not rare for a student to attack on his teachers, where the students face one another, and it is not rare for a teacher to offend a teacher, and then the parents to join in. Parents are desperate because the situation is really sometimes not just sometimes but increasingly and alarming. I find the law to be undernourished. This is how one serious issue that speaks of basic textbooks, even for high school, can not be one act that has 20 articles. A whole series of things that are necessary to happen and to get rid of the law cannot be just the subject of a teaching standard, a sublegal act that speaks of the determination of scope, dimensions, technical quality and the very weight of textbooks, and that later by means of a sublegal act we empower a commission that will then determine the content of the textbook itself. It seems that only the Ministry and the Government has not seen what we need and I don't think, it isn't enough or enough that schools, regardless of the importance of giving excellent students and providing knowledge, but it is also important that what is most important is the atmosphere in them, whether they are our schools and whether they will ever become schools of democracy and schools for democracy. Schools where they will learn about peace and peace, tolerance, equality, those in which they will end and achieve all forms of discrimination, all forms of stereotype. This law must say something about it because it is then taught and taught through textbooks from which children learn from, and later on, when we finish secondary education, we get formed people with a formed attitude and that is something that this country and our Croatia must define that through schools we get citizens who are not for compromise, for social conformism that has been in every ten years and for what we have witnessed and for which we have not yet recovered through education alone, not subjects. The question remains some education that remains questionable through school, and that ministry is silent about it, does not give an answer even though it has been committed, and that is what this law should be about. Let's just think of that famous history booth where when something happens in public then the minister says he didn't know about it. We don't mind, I personally don't mind giving the minister more authority, but they have a responsibility behind them. So if Article 3 is what the minister can do, why is he in charge, then the minister can't say later that he hasn't read a rulebook. Let's remember that famous bathing suit rule. If the law gives him authority, responsibility arises. But somehow it's already gotten used to, when the public is raised for certain alarm solutions, then we have an easy answer I haven't read no matter what the law gives him, and hence the responsibility. Here you can see in Article 5, he's the most controversial because he doesn't define everything he's supposed to define, at least in general. Article 5 states that the textbook may not contain any promotional content. That's how we know that big now multinational companies won't be able to advertise their products in the textbook, and the state thinks that's the end of it. The truth is, the commission approves the content, but the law must give guidance. It is noted in Article 3 that the textbook must meet scientific, pedagogical, psychological, didactic and methodical, ethical, linguistic, visual, graphic and technical requirements, but is again referred to as those established by the textbook standard. So something that is higher order than would be standard, is in the lower order act, and lower order, the lower order act points to higher order. It is also inadmissible from the nomotechnical production of acts and with the meaning of the laws and their sublegal acts. This law has to say which are scientific, which are pedagogical and other frameworks which are just namedly listed regardless of what would be at least one sentence of their content, and then when that is the case, we wonder that it is precisely under that announcement that the school lecturer from the first class school booklet will be thrown out of one of the most beautiful and touching works, I would say one of the smartest children's stories "Jezek House". There is so "Ježeva kućica" in Croatia has not yet received a housewife, and Branko Ćopić has not been rehabilitated. In fact, under that very cover, often a commission considered to be a priority professional and not politicising is often politicized over every measure, more than it seems in politics itself. So I'm an academic saying that this is thrown out of the book, please, because that book is not written, that story is not written in Croatian, so it goes to the point where "other Ježic ježić" is converted to "dear". So they're still falsifying books instead of being translated. It's something that's inadmissible. Well then, when I mention Jezić's "Ježić Jezić" and the benevolent and unforgettable Branko Copić, let me also finish, since it's already red light that there is ours, that our ministry wanders around the forest all over the road, and we expected that this proposal of the Law on textbooks would give us exactly that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50415	Thank you very much, colleague. First we'll correct the incorrect allegations, then the secretary of state. First is MP Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50416	Well, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to correct one incorrect quote from my colleague Ingrid, who said that there is everything in this bill and no students. There are students, they're here, but they can't be seen at first sight. All that's given in this bill is turned to the student is a question of whether it fits, whether it's good for the student. It's just like that story about Radoshe's umbrella when a certain Radoš in Slavonski Brod came to his principal to sign an account and the director was looking at the bill and eventually it says "A umbrella". The director says what this is, so it's that umbrella that I lost that night, the director says drop it and bring in a new bill. When he brought a new bill to a friend, he says he's here, but he can't see. So are the students, but you can't see them at first sight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50417	I know I don't have the right to comment, but we don't need all the painting we need to understand the debate. Thank you very much. She is a colleague of Jagoda Maja Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50418	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I would only correct my colleague Anticevic. Namely "Ježeva kućica" according to the academic Babić himself, was not kicked out of the school programme because of the Serbian language, but because it simply doesn't correspond to children in the first grade of popular school who are just beginning to learn letters and read. It is said by academic Babic in public, and I would pray that he does not get insinuated and that some things do not insinuate. In addition, some editions of "The Jezek Houses" have received a broader interpretation of Serbian words and I suppose that one day if not before, they will enter the booklet for a little older, but in any case because of Serbian language they are not kicked out of the first grade of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50419	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one replica, Agent Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50420	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, dear colleague Ingrid said everything that was essentially said by Mr. Pejo Trčević on behalf of our club because this is about changing thesis. In order for us to achieve the goal planned by this Law, we must first come to the reduction of teaching programs, and then we can only go to this part of the textbook. So, first we have to do it, so this or at least at least do it in parallel. 'Cause that looks like that "we're doing a feast, and all we got is a rye while the rabbit's still in the woods." So, and when we do it in a way that needs to be done, which means that we know what our goal is, to know how we plan to do it, then I can even say that colleagues can be 15 articles. 15 too many, systematic articles can be regulated according to that Latin concentration laconica previtas. It means that we know what we want, how we want to do it, and how we're gonna do it. And we're in this problem now that we have one part of the rules where we're too freaked out, no one's doing it, we're creating legal uncertainty, and on the other hand we have, today we've seen this debate about the lawyer's election, we have parts of the insanity when we haven't regulated how we're going to choose someone and how we conduct the procedure. Therefore, this is a deep concern for the situation in Croatia's legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50421	Thank you very much, colleague. My colleague Ingrid has the right to reply to the replica. I see we are full of folk wisdom today and oral literature after the budget. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50422	Well, I agree that the program needs to be reduced, but I'm not into reducing the child's mind because it's much bigger than some people think it is. So this distinguished academic of ours who thus explains that it's a content that children of the first grade can't understand "The House of Jezek". It was taught 30 and over 40 years ago in kindergarten. It's a story where children at least age are identified so quickly, they learn the importance of their own home, however modest it is. What else does it look like that academic Babic didn't understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50423	Okay. Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. State Secretary Dr. Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50424	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and MPs. Let only a few thoughts stimulate your thinking and discussion above all about the easier bag. The fact is that easier bags are in some schools already today. We have practice, for example, in the City of Rijeka and elsewhere in Croatia where for 25 years we have had classes organised where the whole living room and students carry bags home only on Fridays. So we have that experience. On the other hand, with regard to easier bags, the Law on textbooks can do something, but ultimately, when we achieve the goal of building enough such buildings, a school where only one shift will be implemented then the issue will be largely resolved. The textbook law has been trying to solve it so far, but he can only sort it out part of it. So I'm not going in there, you've made a good comment. I'd like to answer to Mrs. Ingrid Antičević, who has well noticed the question of value. In Croatian society when it comes to value then we have done far more procedure than only the Law on textbooks can. In what way? It is important to acquire knowledge at school today, but it is important to acquire skills and abilities and values. And it is precisely the new Croatian national educational standard that is so well understood that it has built-in and value in a way that every class in the primary school that is taught is divided into teaching topics, and when knowledge in teaching topics and everything that is built in then it is seen and built in and built in both knowledge and skills and values and socializing views so that in each teaching topic clear are given instructions which are key concepts and which are educational achievements that are expected. And in these educational achievements are values. Therefore, I think that by developing the Croatian school system, we get the situation that textbooks will also contribute. In what way? The Law on textbooks less, but textbooks more by monitoring the implementation plan and the programme where they will have to treat these situations as well. Therefore, your discussion will certainly be helpful in the final, second reading that we can offer some more of these shades, but I wanted to point out that our school system is already moving towards it and can solve some of the situations that we specifically expect from the Bookbooks Act. And what I'm trying to say is that there's a much more complex way to look at it and solve it more complexly. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50425	Thank you, Secretary of State. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50426	Dear Madam Vice President, it is incorrect what the Secretary of State said that the Law on textbooks will address the issue of the teaching process. It's done by a practice and method, not by this law. That's where you messed up the pots.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50427	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary of State has no right to reply, but it is important that we are experts. That's very precious. Let's move on. A colleague of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50428	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with the secretary of state who said something here about the weight of school bags and the fact that there's no problem in that weight. The problem is in the contents of books, therefore, in the contents of textbooks that children carry in that bag. Although it should be said that somewhere in the beginning, Minister Primorac promised the Croatian public in his style, as he knows for two years, that here under his leadership of the Ministry of Education and Education, the school bag for students will be much lighter. So it's not any easier, and it's been two years. But here, if children carry school bags every day to school or only on Fridays, that's not the point. The content of the textbooks is that nothing important has changed either in the content of the textbook or in the curriculum itself. So in everything that children learn and the way they learn in schools. So the bag symbolically means that our children are still learning too much information that may never be needed in life again, either during school or in any kind of work activity. And I think it's much more important than children becoming, so they only have a mere reproduction of the information they got from the professor, that they develop the ability to conclude and connect certain information. Today, it is completely irrelevant whether or not you will know any information and information by heart. Because today you have many, therefore, technical opportunities, from the Internet or many other ways you will get some information. So, having some information in your head is totally unnecessary to force your kids to do that. It is much more important to teach our children how to get the necessary information and how to connect them to a specific whole from a series of information in order to gain knowledge of a particular problem. I think that developing these skills, these technologies, this way of accessing children and learning is much more important than, therefore, mere data-gathering and then reproducing these data either through a test, or by answering the teacher. I think it's something that's absolutely out of date and bad way, therefore, of teaching our children. Instead of talking about it, so today, which we're taking here, if we're going to have 1 textbook, we're going to have 5, or we're going to have 10 per specific subject, I think it's much more important to talk about the content of the textbook today. Unfortunately, so far, my information has made it pretty bad, in a way, to create a different content of textbooks. In fact, not only is the curriculum and the program crucial, but also the catalogues of knowledge. Unfortunately, in that part, we didn't go down a path that I think would be much better, and that's just to sit down and agree in the state that we want our children to know and what quantity of knowledge they have to have when they get out of primary school, which knowledge quantum must have when they get out of high school. We're on our way, so, and then, let's see what's in the textbooks and in the follow-up to those kids we need to give to get out of primary or secondary school with that knowledge. Unfortunately, we went one other way, which is that we gathered some experts, gave them textbooks and said let's just cut those textbooks down a little bit. I think it's one wrong way because, therefore, that's how some topics were moved from the textbook. However, I'm afraid that the ultimate goal then is whether we're going to get educated children and ready for, therefore, competition and economy still simply in science, I think it's one bad way and we're not going to get educated children the way we should. Therefore, we should have gone the other way and could not experiment on children. It should also be said that our textbooks unfortunately haven't made a single step when it comes to sex stereotypes and still our textbooks are swarming with sex stereotypes, unfortunately it's still a small number of textbooks that teach and raise children tolerance, non-violent conflict resolution. I had the opportunity to see some new textbooks that were made in a way to show that children are equally successful in sports and those who have developmental difficulties and those who have threatened and so that all children, that they can be equally successful in all activities, so also in mastering certain skills of knowledge, but also in certain sports skills. Unfortunately, these textbooks are very little used in our schools, and I think these textbooks should be much more useful because they are a good step. Unfortunately, at school with this education of children and one knowledge that we must give, I think we should raise children both to certain tolerance and non-violent conflict resolution. How to, for example. I'd like to take the opportunity to tell you here, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, on some computer skills classes instead of learning about computer skills, the clock is used to produce a blog in another's name, and then some student produces a blog on behalf of his school friend, on this blog it is announced that she provides sexual services for free and then becomes her hell at school. After that, a number of students address it in a very vulgar way, this child is exposed, so it is not about adults but about children, this child is exposed to a lot of pressures and mockery at school, and that is the only thing that is not wrong. When no one reacts at school, no one reacts in the system to protect such children and simply introduces order, that the classes of information cannot serve it but something else then parents take matters into their own hands, which is the worst. You had a case a few days ago of a father who unfortunately took order in school and hurt both the student and his parents, therefore these are problems that we should discuss. So, we're dealing here today I think one topic that is not crucial to the quality of our children's education, whether we're going to have one textbook or more I think is less important, I think it's much more important to talk about these other things that are happening in our education system, which we haven't found good and effective answers to. In the end, if there's going to be one textbook or more I'm in favor of knowing that when knowledge is actually about to be competition, pluralism is present, I don't think professors have been forced to change textbooks every year, it's on the one hand. On the other hand, it is perfectly understandable for me to try to get together with those parents who have problems in schooling their children and who don't have the money to buy textbooks every year, but I don't think that when it comes to knowledge, social issues should be addressed in this way. I think we should find some other models, the state has mechanisms to help those parents who have problems buying their children textbooks. For now, some units of local self-government that have both social sensitivity and more money in the budget are funding textbooks for children in primary school. Unfortunately, the largest number of units of local self-government don't do that, so I think that in this part of the country maybe you could find some mechanisms to help these families. I've talked here on several occasions about some environments where parents from high school print their children because they can't even pay for a ticket to the school, let alone that I can pay their textbooks, therefore the situation in a number of people is extremely poor and in that part I understand that the ministry, that one social note wanted to please them, help the citizens, but I say beyond knowledge I wouldn't do it this time, and I think that the state has other mechanisms that can help socially endangered families and help children either through scholarships or any other way that they can study because they simply have the right and we are in the interest of a country where we have only 8% of the highly educated population and it seems to me somewhere around 30% of people who have either failed primary school or have finished it, I think that in a country that has such an educational structure is very important to invest in knowledge and to encourage children to have a higher number of graduates, and perhaps to continue to continue to get a doctor and maybe to a doctor. Here again, Mr. Secretary of State Law, in my opinion, does not solve the problem of our problems in education, and therefore I will not be able to support this Law because I think it is completely irrelevant whether we will have one textbook or more and on the other hand, I would like to open up these other problems in this House which cause Croatian education, but primarily our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50429	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here I would say that Mrs. Opačić is fat enough to come out of the context of the discussion under this Law on textbooks, to mention cases and convincing cases that are certainly ugly and tragic which would be the story of education and inspection above all in that school, and certainly not to mention that it is irrelevant to discuss textbooks, it is important because if today is irrelevant when we have before us a proposal on textbooks for primary and secondary school textbooks it is completely irrelevant and irrelevant and we are wasting time as I received an impression from this debate, then I don't know why the government passed in 2001 adopted the Law on textbooks which was in application and during the application of the Law found that he did not bring anything good, it brought a mess among the publishers, brought up the up of textbooks, one total lack of knowledge and of parents and textbooks, and here we heard that it wasn't a problem for parents and teachers, and it't a problem to the parents. Therefore, I think it is appropriate and that today it is up to us to discuss this Law on textbooks and try to facilitate the procurement of textbooks and parents above all and to improve the quality of textbooks because we have heard that the pluralism of textbooks, their cloning, etc. to leave the matter to the profession. We've also left in the profession for three years and we see that we just got what we got, a bunch of cloned textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50431	Thank you very much. Comrade Opačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50432	Well, colleague Lovrin says I'm here to claim that it's a waste of time to discuss textbooks and that's irrelevant. No, Mrs. Lovrin, if you'd listened well to me then you'd hear what I'm talking about. It's not important to discuss whether we're going to have one textbook or five on a particular subject, because it's much more important what our textbooks are like in the content itself, which is what these textbooks say, and here I was talking about that nothing has changed for years or that we break down the stereotypes of sex, or build into tolerance, or install into textbooks non-violent conflict resolution. That's what I was talking about, just my claims that this should finally be found in the textbooks and that the content is much more important than the form, I supported it with some indicators and some examples. If it is difficult for you to hear about what is happening among children, what happens to violence among children is for me, and the first debate of the Law on textbooks was a good way to open this topic because I have no other way to talk about it than this speaker and to say something about it and I think that's the problem that's happening in Croatian school today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50433	Thank you very much, colleague. State Secretary Želimir Janjic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50434	Thank you very much, dear vice president. First of all, I would like to thank the esteemed MP Opačić for these remarks she made. And let me remind you of something. In 2001, we also talked about too much information, and if you remember in 2003 when we adopted the teaching standard, then we referred to it and said that new concepts within one teaching unit should not be more than three to nine maximums, and in this way we actually detected it as a problem and certainly reduced it compared to some previous time when these concepts were significantly more. Now we're in a situation to talk about it again and talk about how maybe it's not the most important thing and of course it's not and it can be less, and then when it's done, we're going to take care of it, of course. You stress special skills and skills with knowledge, so we're talking about competence. Of course, that's how it's done now. The former government has also accepted the "PIZA" project, which was first tested in the Republic of Croatia this spring and will be the main one next year. That's exactly what it's based on. So this topic is becoming very current and of course it will not only be solved by this law but it will be resolved in some other ways, so when the "PIZA" exam is conducted, then it will certainly be one indicator to teachers and one message to them in fact that they should set up a course and that they should now turn to some other topics and not exclusively to students to ask for the reproduction of what was said there. However, not only that but also the external evaluation of the education that we are going to introduce, but it is actually about the processes that you know that can't be introduced overnight into the education system and external evaluation will actually have one such instrumentation and these educational measurements are now quite perfected in Western European countries. And we and this external evaluation will in fact warn them to continue or direct them on this path, so that's what we're going to ask our students to connect the facts, to apply them, etc. So it's something we're working on and it's sure to give results. After all, even when we passed amendments and additions to the Law on Middle Education, we said in one article that national exams would be conducted. What's their goal? Not only preparation for the state's graduation perhaps in a technical sense, but in fact, it opens up the possibility for schools to raise the quality of their work. There we said that schools are obliged to use the results of national exams or to use them for the self - evaluation process of schools. So, exactly in that part. Of course, we're not going to solve everything with this or some other law, but actually something else that actually runs parallel to what we're talking about today. Of course, now we're talking about output competences and there's been a lot of intense discussions about it for a long time. Yesterday we had a conference with the RTF National Observatory, the Professional Education Agency that we started. We didn't go to state high school for four years of vocational school and art than we said we'd leave another year to prepare for it. And the task of the agency that will actually be the coordinator of all these important jobs that should be done is to call as opposed to some time ago when programs were being done, to invite all partners and social partners, from the ministry, so those sent from agriculture and forestry, health care, etc. So together with the Croatian Employers' Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, one quite wide circle that they very clearly say what it is that the student must know the moment he shows up as an employee. For these reasons we want first, so it's now moving from above but very logical. In all of Europe, it seems, therefore, that exit competences are first defined and they will determine everything else. We'll get to the girls. So that's the direction you're going to track down exactly what you mentioned earlier in your presentation. And let us, when we talk about stereotypes, you also spoke to sex stereotypes in 2001 and more about your colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, who presented very specific examples from the textbook. Less now believe them in newer textbooks. There'll be fewer of them after this for sure. It's a matter of course the author and we're sending them a rather clear message. And if you want me to reconsider, I don't know if it's really going to happen, but we're going to be taking care of Mrs. Helen Stimac-Radin in this institution that you know is exactly what she's worried about to offer her to be in the commission so she can take care of it most directly because it's actually in her job description. So, what I'm saying is, we're really worried about that. And finally, when you talk about protecting students in this new time, so the Internet opens up all sorts of possibilities. Recently, there was a conference in Dubrovnik that discussed how to protect the students in that part. And of course, the representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports were present there and we are sure that it will be very useful and that we will certainly try to shed light on these situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50435	Thank you, Secretary of State. Next up is the representative of the Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50436	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I must say, the way in which this law is passed certainly does. However, to me personally and to the participants of the round table on this law in Varazdin on November 3rd, unfortunately, the law does not seem to have been fully affected. I must say that at the beginning of the 21st century and all kinds of information I wonder that this law does not define that the textbook can also be in electronic form. We can talk about how to protect copyright. I agree that perhaps an electronic textbook for the first or initial classes of elementary school would not be adapted and would not be good, but for high school it would certainly be. And now we're witnesses, and these are the participants, that often the textbooks are photocopied and probably the ministry is afraid that if the textbooks are in electronic form, there will be illegal multiplication and everything else, but there are legal norms and ways of protecting the copyrights of those who do such textbooks. But what's much worse for me by this law is that if there's a smaller number of textbooks, we'll have a situation that the publishers will have a fixed demand. On the eve of every school year, they will know about how many textbooks they can sell. Unfortunately, we don't have a situation, we haven't had a situation so far that this very market that we'll know how many textbooks there are that we won't know and that it won't be adjusted to the price of these textbooks that they should definitely go down but this law doesn't have the certainty that it will be. Certainly, it is pointed out in this debate, this law goes in favour of large publishers and monopolys because only a limited number will be the authors of textbooks mainly from Zagreb. So we have the metropolis of publishing textbooks, we have the metropolise of authors, and the market is going to be shutting down more and more instead of spreading the market as we've had the case so far. We also have a legal standard that we should have the right and the possibility that teachers or teachers, as well as students, have a textbook from each teaching class. Unfortunately, the proposal for this law will certainly not achieve this right, especially in professional and professional schools. I warn you that we already have a situation now that for a large part of the courses and also professional schools there are not enough quality textbooks or not at all. Let's just say, I'll just give an example that's highlighted in the debate. Examples for the area, for when, if you are educated in high school foundry in Varazdin County for this occupation, you need 20 textbooks a year. I ask you which one is the publisher who will take for twenty textbooks in the area of the Varazdin County, so let's say that this is the whole of Croatia how many such students attend that direction? How much really on a profitable basis will we be able to have a textbook? I guess very little. The proposal, one of the proposals, is why the Ministry could not be involved in the financing of such textbooks or to translate the relevant parties which can be useful and which can be used for such items. What was particularly expressed in this debate was that it was insufficiently explained and insufficiently talked about conflict of interest in the design of textbooks. It is also said very openly and clearly that some supervisors either from, who usually write textbooks themselves because they say the Croatian market is such that some authors are networked. Authors who come from the province and have them in the area of the Varazdin County 20 people praise the worthy who write textbooks either for primary or secondary schools who simply cannot reach the top in such competition because those who work either at the Ministry of Education, who work at the School Office or at the Professional School Agency. That's what I'm telling you. And that is why this part of the conflict of interest should be stronger and more qualitatively reasoned because it must not be the authors that are in the surveillance system. And that happens often. Another thing I would like to warn myself that with, and this is also highlighted in this debate to be accompanied by textbooks that are, and it is proposed that textbooks not like in the bill, that textbooks are chosen by waist. So teachers who will work with textbooks, and certainly no school council, because there usually and most often listens to the voice of the principal to always be required by the textbooks, the manual for teachers, because that way it will be better solved all of this. As far as presenting textbooks is concerned, it is suggested that perhaps for one county or several county textbooks show in one place because in this way it would be a better presentation, the possibility for all teachers or teachers to see textbooks, study and then decide what they are for? What we don't have textbooks for a large number of teaching classes, what's not defined by this law is that the Law on textbooks, it's scripts. It is also used in our especially high schools, vocational and professional schools by those who are twenty, thirty years old, and it seems to me that, or by law, they might just be mentioned and sublegal acts or regulations are defined for what can be scripts? How are they used? And everything else. Certainly here in this Law I would especially warn the lack of compliance of deadlines because, for example, in times when there is no finished school plan and program we have defined some dates that are simply impossible to respect. And I would especially like to point out that we have to specifically treat primary school textbooks, and this can be said to keep the student bag as empty as possible or as difficult as possible. There is a completely different situation for secondary schools, however, we need to have high school textbooks especially, especially for vocational and professional schools because, as I have pointed out, there are no more professional and professional schools. And this law should be done by the Ministry to make sure that these textbooks are true. Special story are textbooks for foreign languages and especially for foreign languages in vocational and professional schools. While there are countless and many of them for high school and competition, it is clear to us that foreign language in vocational and professional schools cannot be the same as in high school because neither the learning goals are certainly the same. The aim of teaching foreign language in vocational schools is to train students to communicate but also to monitor literature especially those professional, less scientific but especially what happens in professional and lifelong education. It seems to me that in textbooks that go for foreign languages in professional schools and vocational schools, there should be about 40% of the common language, and 60% of the profession we don't have right now. Let us not forget that foreign textbooks are often used in Croatia because someone is propagating them, because there is a good promoter and it is certainly not good. It should still give priority to the home authors. They know the spirit of language, the spirit of profession and everything else. And now, specifically, a few articles. In Article 6(1), the point is that if the author of the textbook wants to be an author with a small story and wants to publish it in his own publication. Who, in that case, submits a request for the authorisation of the textbook? In the absence of an official curricula and programme, it is possible to submit an application for the authorisation of textbooks by 31 October. Article 9(1) proposes to amend and supplement the opinion of the expert commission not only of the publisher but also of the author because the author is responsible for the content, and the question of communication between publishers and authors can often be disputed. Article 10(3) refers to these terms. The application for the authorisation of the textbook should be submitted by 31 October for the following year and the Minister's decision shall be made by 30 June at the latest. It's a matter of printing textbooks so they won't be too short-term. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That's what if there's no textbook so special arrangements can get printing. Also in Article 14(3), what will happen if the selected textbook remains in use for 4 years, and it is found that it is not responding until the end or that it is printed in the meantime and there is a report of a better, more practical and better textbook. Also on these dates in Article 14 it is said that the Ministry by 30 I'm still finishing my sentence. [[I'm sorry.]] It means the Ministry publishes a list of approved textbooks by March 30th. In Article 15(2), the catalogue of textbooks shall be published by 20 May and Article 5(5), Article 5(4), that the school shall notify the Ministry of the list of selected textbooks by 15 May. Few dates have been mixed up and we are just warning that all these dates and dates need to be aligned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50437	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50438	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Commissioner of Korenik said this law is in favour of the great publishers. That's not true at all. I do, and it is certain that this law applies to both parents and students, and Article 6 of the proposed law states that the application for the authorisation of textbooks is submitted to the Ministry. So anyone can handle it. The expert commission will assess whether it is in line with the curriculum and plan. The minister will grant approval and if more than 10% of these textbooks are selected, he will enter the textbook catalogue. Thus, it is available to every publisher, not a great publisher, and stories, and stories about how the choice of parents and students about textbooks will be reduced, and mainly not students chose textbooks, but parents only had to buy a second textbook each year, which would be said by a teacher at school, usually year after year by year by year by another textbook, and then parents with two children in the same school had to buy new textbooks again each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50439	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, legislator of Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50440	In my debate, I said I was thinking, and it's hard to correct my opinion. I therefore believe that this also injured Articles 204 and 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50441	Thank you very much, colleague Korenik. I think we have an agreement not to insist on a literal speech in the assembly. Because if we insist on speaking literally, I'm going to remind you of the five last speakers who went pretty far from the topic with the textbooks, but they stayed on the topic about schooling. So I ask you nicely that the rules that apply to the party from which we come also apply to other political parties, that we be tolerated. State Secretary Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50442	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I would briefly like to say to the honourable representative of the Korenika that when it comes to conflict of interest I thank you very much for these suggestions you make. And I'll tell you that there are other ways to solve this problem in some parts. We will, of course, accept this proposal of yours and consider it so that we can see what the best solution will be. You are, therefore, we have expanded the definition of conflict of interest which is not so broad in the current law. But not wanting to limit the freedom of authorship precisely for those reasons that I mentioned when I was speaking earlier, we allowed the freedom of authorship but to lay down clear rules. Here you mentioned the Bureau, which is our advisors who are often the authors of textbooks. This problem can also be solved so that the author of the textbook and counselor is in elementary school can be the author of textbooks in high school, and vice versa. So he won't be able to directly influence these. It's just one of the ways in which we can think about this problem. And secondly, the deadlines and respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Adlesic, had been troubled by these deadlines, so she suggested that it be 90 days, not 120 days, and that it be saved from those 30 days that it actually remains if I understood well as the possibility of getting it done, but within a shorter period maybe than it has been before and that something in time should be obtained so that these deadlines would be slightly different. Thank you very much for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50443	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. 13.25 I declare a break until 15.00 for lunch. Bon appetit. And the next turn is representative of the Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50444	...respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50445	Thank you, Mr. President. I just need 10 minutes without interrupting, I hope I win. So I think it's very important that this bill appears in the first reading. I must personally say that I have great respect for the affairs of Mr. Comrade Professor. Dragan Primorac, who shows that we professors sometimes know how to be successful because our students are better than we are. In that sense, I would like to be recognized by the second reading that this law is a law of continuity. In an explanation, however, it is mentioned in several places, but I would like to call and support the way my colleague, Maria Lugaric, who could be a very good parliamentary representative, smokes a little too much, though. So the old coalition government created the first modern Law on textbooks in 2001, in 2003 created a teaching standard and should make some important innovations in this law through the logic of continuity. The first innovation that I advocate to move away in the title and spirit of the law from the idea of the Law on textbooks and to really be the Law on textbooks and other teaching tools or aids, whatever you want to call it expertly. Although I write textbooks for colleges and this law does not apply to me, writing textbooks is one as you know, extremely difficult work. When I give permanent recognitions to an old coalition government, I must also point to the risks that have arisen because of the concept of this Law on textbooks. The first risk is related to the idea of liberalism. Liberalism is good in certain quantities, however, if it turns like the textbook market turned into market fundamentalism, then publishers fight for the market by not choosing the funds. And what are the basic problems that this law should address, and some of these problems can be solved, some cannot be solved. The first problem is heavy bags. So the heavy bags can't be solved by this law. They can be largely resolved by the depositing of textbooks to adopt a model that is more or less valid in North America and in most European countries to deposit textbooks in schools and, of course, to reduce textbooks by weight, but in order to do so, it must come from teaching content and then go to textbooks. Another problem that my colleague Primorac had touched me about one night because I called him, wanted to consult on the ideas and purposes of this law, then he told me that he saw in the rain the mass of parents waiting in columns of 50, 100 meters long, that they had wrinkled kunas in their hands and that you simply saw suffering on their faces. This problem should certainly be addressed in this way by introducing in some way some kind of social sensitivity with this market liberalisation and market fundamentalism. Social sensitivity can, I can't think of with two rough normative limitations, the first limit to three textbooks and a second limitation to four years, because that would be purely theoretically speaking, meaning in some way stopping the process of learning decry at four years of discontinuity, and in that sense other solutions should be considered. One topic that is not mentioned here, which you most certainly know about, are the pressures of publishers on teachers, teachers, directors and schools. Let's be completely open, I hope there's no television transmission again. This is about practically corrupt pressures on that group, which is highly paoperable. So they're paoperized schools, and if the publisher starts competing with not the quality of textbooks, but by offering in modern technology or teaching or by offering I don't know about personal computers or any other way to gain affection, I think that subject should be addressed. I don't know how we can deal with this. I have a proposal that may look a little infancy, but I have to assure you it will be in the end, that he is very serious and that the results would certainly be very positive. ... The topic is a conflict of interest. [[You don't understand.]] He's pretty banalized here when it comes to the fact that textbook authors can't be related to publishers or anything like that. things. This should be applied by the Consequential Law on conflict of interest and simply referred to in this lex specialis to this law. As for the textbook as a basic teaching tool, many colleagues spoke about it, colleague Lugarić also who has this direct experience, I already at the level of university teaching to medical students, and you need to know that medical students are the most traditional students. When I walk into the hall, they all get up, that's what happens to their fellow Primorians that you don't think they have a greater form of respect than anyone. They're disciplined, they're hard workers, they work in the morning from 6 to 7. However, what is already observed at this level is that the change in the general culture has changed the ways of teaching reception. That's what my colleague Josipovic can talk about. The old technology patterns, say the Excathedre, lectures don't work out at all, so people lose their concentration, they can't listen. Even more modern forms, the PowerPoint presentation is already routineized today, has no creativity in it, acts quite retarded because the basic forms are defined and the third element is inability to concentrate. In this nation, both the teaching nerve and the ability to listen is based on 45 minutes. So when I teach, and that's probably confirmed by my colleague Josipovic, we don't have to have a watch, we have one biological hour and after 45 minutes we just know it's been 45 minutes. However, reception options decrease from 45 minutes to lower. This means that on the same basis, we need to treat the textbook and other teaching tools, and that should be said in this. Oh, I don't know, teaching films in the perspective of the possibility of the various educational programs not only of Croatian television leaving at all a cultural educational and scientific programme and switching to "reality shows" and taking money from these advertisers but also other forms. All in all, I think it's good that this law appears, that there's something important to be said on it, and something else in the conclusion I promised earlier. In this high house, a couple of months ago, the Children's Council appeared. Unfortunately, only counterpart Pero Kovacevic attended the Children's Assembly, was an independent representative from the HDZ ranks of counterpart Selen and myself. The children there discussed 5 topics, from Croatian television to, my colleague Kovacevic will help me, until I know how to work the Croatian Parliament and TV. They turned out to be brilliant. I would suggest that you call on the Children's Assembly and the same few fellows, they are called the Mayors of the Children's Assembly and listen to what they will tell you about the textbook problems. And make sure it's just as useful, if not more useful than we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50446	Thank you very much. One little correction. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50447	Excuse me. Mr. President. Comrade Letica, you listed yourself as being present at the Children's Assembly and your last two sentences as you described that assembly, I confirm it and he is. Something that's most valuable in this country is children, and these little mayors are more valuable than we Parliamentarians. But you said one inaccuracy. My colleague, Selem, is not an independent or independent representative. He is a representative of the Croatian Democratic Union. ... And there was, how much... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50448	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50449	And you were invited by the Croatian Democratic Community to a job that you are not ashamed of. Go back to 90.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50450	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. He's not and he's losing his right. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's not here either. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50451	I didn't give up. No, I just said if we don't go back with...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50452	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50454	It's a law on textbooks for elementary and high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50455	Yeah. All right. No, it's my fault, okay. Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's just a few words because we've heard a lot of things today. It is true that what the law allows publishers have done. A huge number of textbooks appeared, clearly, in all possible ways tried to persuade teachers, teachers to use exactly their textbooks, which in my opinion was legitimate, by organising seminars, by showing, by marketing, so, that went. What are the consequences? The consequences are a huge number of textbooks in the same class, and really, there's been a lot of confusion. My parents bought one thing, something else came up, and in the end I think it's really good that this is the law that's been going on. What I was about to say here, it's commendable to say here that it will prevent an obsolescence of textbooks and that's good. But some things in the textbooks need to be seen for sure who, I don't think, will be out of date. Supposedly, if only two hours of learning about the Homeland War, then I think it's small and should certainly make it a little stronger and bigger. Why? Because now they've come to order generations born after the war and who hear exclusively about the war on HTV as a criminal war. So where there's not a shred of patriotism, and I think kids at school need to understand the truth that it was a defense war, not an aggressor war. That there was a war that was a patriotic war, not a criminal war. And that's where I think you should certainly give a little louder line in history. He's handsome and he's a good-looking professional relationship in the expert commission, and I think that's how it should be. There's always a teacher and a teacher who's actually trying really hard. They can certainly participate in this practice and this ratio is certainly good. Same textbooks for four years, that's fine. But it must be the quality of the textbook not only by content but also materially. It must be good to even endure for more than 1 year because we've had opportunities already to see after a few months to actually get the book itself, the textbook I've been to fall apart. One thing I think maybe, maybe it could change. It says here that everyone in the proposal, all departments or departments of the same class, use the same textbook. Well, that's okay for small schools, but you have big schools with 10, with 8 to 10 parallel departments. So now, what's going on? Like, school, permanent... is St. Sunday here with a thousand 500 students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's such a big move for you, and during the school year kids come along, and they're actually going to come across a textbook, so at least somehow we try to put them there in those departments that use the textbooks that the kid brought with him. Maybe limit it to, I don't know, four parallel departments to go 1, over 4 maybe 2. You don't need 3, or at least 2. I think it would certainly be better and better quality. Finally, it is difficult for 10 people to agree on about 1 textbook. That's how much we know, right? Furthermore, I think the whole law is good and should surely be supported and I believe that it will do what is most important, make order in the textbook market. Here, just a few words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50456	Thank you very much. Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50457	Dear colleague Markovanovic, in line with three things. First, you said that the problem is that there are more parallel textbooks, and as an argument, you use the fact, here, parents buy one and then another appears. At the beginning of the school year, parents buy one book, children learn from that book the entire school year, and their world in which other books are moved simply does not exist. I'd like someone to tell me why it's a problem when we have more textbooks to choose from because a parent and child uses one single book a whole school year. The fact that the stove is 2 or 3 or 5, I think it's that parent or child, after all, and it doesn't concern that much. Secondly, what children learn at school is referred to as part of the presentation where you mentioned the Homeland War is not a matter of textbooks. Teachers at school hand over content from the curriculum, and if the content is not valid, the curriculum should be changed because the textbook only includes the content prescribed in advance in the curriculum. And thirdly, saying that the same textbook should be for 4 years so that certain technical requirements must be met so that the book does not break down after 4 years. You actually made a request to have a fatter and heavier book. So there's got to be some kind of hard commitment, that it has to be, that the book just doesn't fall apart. If it had to be a hard circuit, it had to be a little different paper quality, different color quality. In fact, the message of these latest remarks when certain decisions and evaluations are made, especially in this section when putting the social criterion ahead of the professional criteria, that it is very easy to come up with a bad solution and contradictions of what we really want to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50458	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50459	Thank you. Well, I think we'd agree on a lot of things, but what I said was that there's a lot of textbooks I didn't mean three suggested but a 10-ac parallel textbooks which is really too much. Because then it's really used in a small percentage and it's pretty hard to finally expand it. ... Buddy, you've been looking a long time out of those problems. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As for the quality of the book, what does the same textbook have to be for 4 years if it's not quality? What does that mean? After a year he'll throw it away and buy the same next year? Well, I think the law's intensity is the same if for four years it's the same textbook that I can use it for younger generations. So, next brother, sister, neighbor or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50460	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50461	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The textbook should actually be in its contents only the last link after everything else is known. So they should be known as pedagogical standard, i.e. educational standard, Croatian National Education Standard, for primary schools is only at the initial stage of experimental phase. I think it's wrongly set, it's not known how it's going to be evaluated, and the other National Education Standard for High Schools that's much more complicated because it covers a much wider area, it's going to be much harder to build, we don't even know where it is yet. At the same time in high school began the first generation of students to attend the state's graduation. This would mean that right now after the first semester, and the end of the first term of education of those students should be completed by national exams. National exams are preparations for national graduation, and in order to go to national exams you must have such a plan and programme that comes out of the National Education Standard which will naturally be a template for national graduation. We don't have it all. We don't have a National Education Standard, we don't have a plan, we don't have a program to do that, we don't have a teacher's manual, so we can't even have a textbook in the end, and we're talking about high school textbooks here. That's an explanation of what I was talking about on behalf of the club when I said the reform wasn't prepared. You can't have the first generation of students to go to state high school without having any of this stuff I've been talking about, especially when the institutions that should be doing it are doing it very slowly. Last year, for the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, the budget was reduced 5 times. He remained on only 2 million kunas to increase by about 6 million kuna this year, and then the ministry boasts that it is an increase of 300%. It's a decline compared to last year by about 50% for that very important institution. So you can't have projects and programs where you don't have that very important financial dimension. From the budget of the Ministry of Science, when you look at the actual items of the amount of money you don't see at all that there is some kind of reform and it happens year after year. The Institute of Education, which should take over part of the vocational work related to education, some kind of advisory body of any authority that will manage, falls each year at the total amount in the budget and in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and Sports. Then how can you expect that we will have reform in the right way, and the textbook repeats it only after all this process that should naturally be done well. For the matter to be even weirder, not only is the Croatian National Education Standard not having a clear method of evaluating itself, that is, the evaluation of the programme, but the agreement has been concluded by the Ministry of Education and Science with the Institute Ivo Pilar of 2.8 million kuna, as the institute will evaluate the implementation of the experimental part of the Croatian National Education Standard. By what? Why? It is much easier, of course, to hire some external associates, of course to get them for yourself, you can disband them, you do not have a stablely formed professional body that somehow obliges you, but then neither the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education nor the Croatian Institute for Education is being developed. It's a completely wrong way. Instead of building institutions that will bear the burden of the reform, these institutions are thus elaborated, so we don't even know what the references to the Ivo Pilar Institute are. As far as I know, this institute has not dealt with specific problems of pedagogy and didactics, which is, of course, relevant for the verification of this Croatian National Education Standard. Why can't this work be entrusted to existing institutions in the Ministry of Education and Science, and then, of course, with more hope, it can be expected that these institutions will bear such a heavy burden of reforming education and science? So how long will it take? If we only have the process of adopting the Croatian National Education Standard in elementary schools its experimental part lasts for several years, then the second, third and fourth phases, then it should be like some final product textbook and everything else, so will it last for the next 7 or 8 years? Is this the dynamic of reforming middle and basic education that we seek? Of course, without that, there can be no talk of real shifts in higher education reform. These are things to talk about, this isn't exactly a direct speech about the problem, but I'm talking about the reform behind which the textbook is as some kind of final product when you've solved all these previous issues, then you can say we want it to be in the textbook, and then of course, this is just a technical matter of how many textbooks we're going to have, are we going to have 3 or 7 etc. What this Law doesn't correspond to, and I said I couldn't support it, that's the fundamental reason. Of course, the law kind of reduces competitiveness, reduces too many students, I understand that motivation, but the law didn't set a monopoly dam. It is possible that the consequences of this Law will be monopoly, duopol and tropoly. The question is how the weak publishers will endure competition and in fact we are thus reducing competition and, of course, it does not necessarily have to be, but the laws show that we are reducing both the quality and the textbooks and the rest of the educational process. It's said very often as floscula that it's necessary to reduce the ticks, and they even had jumbo plaques to reduce the ticks, and that no one has ever defined what that actually means. Well, you can't learn a thing or two if you haven't learned the numbers on which these things rest. What does it mean to reduce the lashes, and how does it seem? Well, it's a process that rests on all these assumptions, not just on the floscule. You can put it on a jumbo poster, but that's not how the cleavage goes down because you didn't really define it. There are processes, modern processes and processes in all branches, and since when is man really, the world and the century that you can't even understand if you don't know the figures in which these processes are resting, and what does that even mean to reduce the ticking? It's just one flossula that's known in our schools who knows how long and I think it's tragic that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports is going down and down to that level and making jumbo posters on this subject, but therefore the fundamental problem of this Law is that the Law did not determine how they would reduce that amount of students, and how to avoid getting monopolies and thus reduce competitiveness clearly and to reduce quality. So these are the basic reasons why I will be against this law, by giving the Proposer some notice. In Article 2, you are saying that the training standard, the implementing regulation of the minister, is the implementing regulation of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports by the minister. Do not use these collective terms in the law, the legal text does not tolerate it and says that the law applies from 1 January 2006. I don't understand how that's possible. This was obviously some ambition that could not be reconciled, the law if it did not go into another reading at this session of the Assembly I suppose it would not, can not be applied as of 1 January 2006 but these are technical issues therefore, but the fundamental reason why I will not be able to support this Law is that it has not resolved this issue by reducing the number of students while at the same time preserving competition and while eliminating the dangers of monopolys that can occur in these circumstances. For example, the law does not say that these five hundred schools will, for example, come to a textbook by three teachers, who will give them these textbooks. Well, a small publisher can't make a thousand 500 textbooks without being seriously threatened by it and in some ways automatically eliminate small publishers. Is the state going to help co-finance these any defendants that a dozen of them will, say, pass only three of them. Here, so these are questions that, I mean important issues that are being opened and the reason why I say I won't be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50462	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Frano Piploic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50463	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister! There's a tall one in front of us, and I'd say a gold target, and the basic question is how to get to that goal. I believe that the intensities of the proposer of this Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools were that we were organized using the abilities of a greater number of people to reach that goal. The goal here has been repeatedly said in the debate to achieve the Croatian standard of quality in the education system, the system of education of young generations. Indeed what I said at the beginning, truly a golden goal. I believe there is no one in this hall who does not wish to achieve that goal. We certainly differ in what way the goal is, what methods, what actions. Everyone's probably got their own version, and I guess our intentions are good for all of us. That is why this first reading should also be taken as a help to you as promoters to hear what we are saying and to put in the final proposal all those solutions that are going towards achieving this goal. I'd say here are the three attitudes that should be taken care of in further upgrading this bill. The first point is that Croatian children and those primary school children and those high school students are not test rabbits. It means that no solution offered in this legislative proposal must be taken into account to avoid such a situation. They are beings worthy of respect, dignity, that is the future of one nation. So every move, every activity that goes in that direction must lead to how to build a quality man for the benefit of his and for the benefit of society. Next, their parents aren't Rockefellers. They do not have so much money that they can simply put pressure on their family budget every little time because they create this disorganization with parents themselves, especially in the younger generations of primary school children where parents actually want him to have a quality guide in the educational and teaching process helps in all cases. Even parents, if they often change their textbooks, cannot keep up with this dynamic and cannot help their children in a quality way. Surely we need to keep an eye on how to free those backs of a single physical burden where publishers and many others who care about profit, about profit, about how they will have it wanting to load on that back so let it pull as it pulls. Second, care should also be taken of the psyche of children themselves or of the life and social orientation of children themselves when it comes to the contents contained in these textbooks. Surely without the help of the people of the profession and I think that we such people have, without the good organization of these people, implemented this process, we will not be able to achieve this function of this goal that we seek. Furthermore, the third view is that the state as one organised and meaningful community of people cannot behave as a drunken billionaire, so that little by little from year to year from budget to budget spends resources without some quality effect given this fundamental function which is why we are making this law. In any case, this affects the disorientation of both parents and teachers themselves and children themselves who are both the subject and the object of the educational process itself. In this proposal, I read it carefully, you can see shifts relative to what we've had so far. There's still one intention to get to order in this area. It can also indicate a series of possibilities that there will be fewer opportunities to produce the bad textbooks we have had so far. A single market, one within the Croatian market, opens up one possibility of competition of quality personnel, creative personnel, people who can offer programmes, which can offer at the end and textbooks for a Croatian future that will be easier in this system of European integration and adaptation to European standards can be included without losing part of ourselves, our identity, etc. Furthermore, it also strengthens the role of teachers and teaching staff. No matter how much we have objections to teachers that some are old, that they do not follow enough achievements, in any case their pedagogical ability to judge is very important and that possibility should be used in this process. And I'd have, I wouldn't move on, I'd have, like, three questions on three articles. Mr Letica has already mentioned Article 8 here where it is said that in paragraph 1 it means to prevent conflicts of interest in the work of the expert commission member before the start of work sign a statement that he is not the author of the textbook, that he is not related to the author, to the publisher or business with the editor of the textbook. It seems to me that this article is inconclusive. What we actually get from that statement, if he signs it, we put it in some drawer and that's it. I mean, that should be tied to something more quality, what Dr. Letica mentioned, maybe tying to the Law itself to prevent conflicts of interest. A sanction would have to be filed if a false statement and later proved that he was actually in contact with a publisher, author, or someone else who might have wanted to make money in such a way. Because what to do if somewhere in one filigree's accuracy that interest is hidden somewhere deep and we later discover actually warm water, we start arguing with each other and making remarks to each other. I think this article should be more precisely defined, especially that a statement should be signed. Article 11 states, "if during the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks a copyright dispute arises, the procedure will be suspended". And what if it's a quality author who offers one significant innovation in this area and someone wants to stop him for jealousy and some other reason. And what we're going to do now. We're gonna stop, we're gonna stop the procedure, and we're gonna have to wait for a solution. Who will compensate for the damage to this man and also the damage to society since such a quality project textbook could be realised in practice, give its results. After all, you know that disputes can last long and no one will actually benefit from it. Article 17(3) also states: "If it is found that there are incorrect and outdated data in the textbook that have a significant impact on the credibility of the content and which refer students to the area... may withdraw the textbook from use." You haven't listed here whose damage and who will file sanctions, if the textbook is already printed, if it has already gone into use, if some money has been spent there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this should be more specific and more responsible. I see in this whole law that strengthening the role of the supervisory authority and regulatory bodies is a significant shift. But I say with respect and these remarks, the remarks of the other colleagues that in the second reading, we will get such a law that is close to this goal that we have set here, and in that sense I am giving my support to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50464	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. First of all, it's normal for me to support the objective of this law, and it's just going to take a lot of work to achieve that goal. This is only the first initial step, and that is why the esteemed colleague Letica is right. Many of us here should be present at that Children's Council of Knowledge. We were just a colleague of Letica, me and Assistant Oršolić, and they would learn a lot about the topics they were talking about, so one topic was the scope of the curricula. It was the theme of "Peace", it was the theme of "The Model", it was the theme of "Television". And that would be a great benefit to all of us, and that is why I suggest that what the Honorable colleague of Letica told you to ask the Children's Assembly for an opinion. You will have their impressions directly that they understand these extensive curricula that they are burdened with, and you know what we have already spoken today from the HSP Club, say the selection of harder words from the lower class textbooks up to 10 years old, acoustics, auditions, factors, digital, distribution, patriarchal, rondela, perpetum mobile, visual, high-level and other things like that are all in your children's textbooks up to 10 years old, and then they can neither understand it nor understand it. On the other hand, we have a good example now that the guest in the city of Zagreb means with high school students was one, they were peers from the United States, and now that they saw the extent of their peers' curriculum here in the city of Zagreb, they said it was a threefold more extensive teaching program than they have in the United States, but we also need to know there should be an ideal environment. So we should find an ideal environment, given, for example, this particular case of a program that is appropriate in the United States and our programme, and I will best explain it to you on the example of political parties. We've got SDP, we've got HDZ. We're the ideal environment for HSP. And that's how it's supposed to go on and do a teaching program because then we're going to get to the point where it can be brought to life and that we're going to achieve the goals that are going here. Because if we don't, we don't go at the same time means teaching programs that will be reduced, which will be appropriate, which will give the knowledge, which will give the child what it needs best to illustrate it to the example of their daughter Peter, who is second grade high school, is an excellent student but she loses her daily life, wastes time and time. She has 15, 16 items. Every day he has either these tests or tests plus he's lecturing plus various activities and really the kids are overloaded. Let's not just take an example of those little kids who are 16, 17 kilos and carry a bag that weighs 7 or a few pounds. So all of this, along with this part, is that we need to really take care of the teacher's material position, the professor says the Ministry has gone that way, but that the goal is still a long way to make all of this happen, to help children reduce their education, the extent of all that they need, but on the other hand, that they normally have a quality preparation and for a higher degree of education and everything else. So until the second reading, it's going to take a lot of work to do. So we support the goal and I'll support it in my first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50466	Thank you. Replicated representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50467	I would like to give one new dimension, one picture of what my colleague Kovacevic said, which is that it would be good to seek the opinion of the Children's Assembly. I don't mind, of course, but there is a Council of Students in the Council at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Half a year ago, the minister took a very nice picture with the Council of Students and High and Primary Schools, which was 50th, and then the minister said it would be his most important advisory body. The minister therefore already has within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports a body that could consult if, of course, it has that style in its work at all. Would it be interesting to hear what the ministry's colleagues are saying about it? Is this a matter of consultation of the Board of Teachers, which exists as an institution at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50468	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50469	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. I told you about the Children's Council of Knowledge because I was on that Assembly, I got the impression that I was a fellow Letica, and it impressed me because they really opened up the right topics. I don't mind if we discuss this part, but I'm sure we'd give them quality solutions. That's why I said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50470	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We started this morning's session with a follow-up from last week. We spent a lot of time on it. I just found out that it was unnecessary because the appointing proposal was actually a child defense attorney, but why did I look back on it? In this morning's debate, too, there was often a word used, words mobing, bulling, mobing, bulling, and in this effort to stop speaking Croatian in this House because I don't know why we don't know why we don't say physical or psychological abuse or harassment, I am making an effort to add a new term that I would like to use over and over again. And this one says "maning." Manning, the English word money manning. [[Intruder: How?]] We can translate him into wrestling because what we do to a schoolboy's parents is maning. We try very well to make sure that every school year parents and one or more students get to know the content more and more, the meaning of the word maning. This law, I'm sorry the bill came with an explanation that this should finally stop. If she's hit, I'm not sure to the end, so let's do it in a row. A large number of similar or slightly modified textbooks in several parts. It's a statement from an argument that really stands. And for years, we've had a situation where every school year we change textbooks from almost every class. That in the same school in the same class in different departments, different authors about the succession of the books of brothers and sisters, friends, or neighbors are speechless. The law we have should change that. Okay. So who were the victims? We're talking about teachers and making it easier for them here. The victims are both parents for financial reasons, and especially where teachers choose textbooks that are not available in bookshops or the nearest bookstores, and then you have to fly around the county or neighbouring county to buy those same textbooks that someone has chosen to be. But what about the children? What about the students? Do they have the right to say anything about textbooks that are now in use? Don't we trust kids in first grade to be able to assess? Okay. We don't trust them. But can students of eight classes in Croatia be so qualified to say something about textbooks that they had to learn from? What about high school kids? If we ask them whom they would keep their textbooks, which they would not, which they would change in the textbook, how should these textbooks seem to be readable to them. In addition to this Council of Students, let us give these children to whom we all swear for their future to ask children dear, students and students what has not been good in textbooks so far. I have a feeling that it's ultimately decided by people who have finished their primary and secondary school for 70 years and have forgotten what it's like to be a first-class student, or high school and elementary school. At least 10% of schools have to choose some textbook to get verification and move on. Why 10? I don't think that's enough. That's 50 schools, right? How many basics is that? I'm not really sure it's a guarantee, and I don't share the concerns of eliminating competition, you know. Now we've had super competition and no quality. Therefore, these calls for great competition have proved to be a quality. That's not true. In one school, the same textbook for all classes and the same for at least four school years. I can support that. But I'm worried about the next one. The textbook isn't the only one children learn from. There are schools and teachers who only see the textbook when they write down who they want to work with. What about the workbooks? What about the task collection? What about the geographical atlas, the historical atlas? Look at their quality. How are we going to solve this part of the problem in terms of quality? In the sense of choice. Because the mechanisms that later talk about choosing textbooks don't apply by my reading the law to these auxiliary means of learning. If they do, then work on that provision because it is already visible that the publishers will find the hole I saw the second day after the law is published in the People's Newspaper. Clearer, more detailed and more precise in favour of children and students. Furthermore, I suggest that, in a substantive sense, if nothing has changed Mr. Secretary of State, that all students of all primary schools and secondary schools in Croatia should be given the burden of the state budget a dictionary of foreign words in order to be able to use the textbooks we have in Croatia, if we cannot... to write Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's give them a dictionary of foreign words so they can translate material from first to eighth grade. Finally, there are provisions on specific rules for textbooks for national minorities and that is necessary. However, I ask, do blind children in Croatia in the regular system of education, and you know how much effort we make to go to regular schools, have the right to textbooks? I hope so. And I want to believe that you know that they don't read ordinary textbooks, for us they'll see, but they have to have textbooks on Braille. There is no provision on textbooks for blind children, that I do not speak of those who use, who are deaf, and who use other helpers. You know as well as I'm sure you know that one book for a blind child for an eighth grade elementary school costs three thousand kuna, one. One textbook of three thousand kunas. That there is an extremely big and difficult effort to get textbooks, especially on the Brilica of these new ones coming out and that in the existing system of schooling parents can't, apart from carditative help, come to them in any other way if they don't just pay. So I kindly ask you to read the second reading, the provisions on textbooks and aids, the collection of tasks, work notebooks and atlas, and there are opportunities to provide them in Croatia in a technical sense into the provisions of this law. That those who betray them are responsible for the authenticity of content. I'm not telling you that by heart. Take a look at some German language textbooks at Brajlica and compare with originals. You'll see, and that's what the kids who learn from them told me. When they compared the texts from the tape and the ones that paid 3,000 kuna. In geography you have skipped materials and false concepts and interpretations. Let us prevent the possibility that various mechanics and those textbooks of the mechanics, without the content being verified by any body of government, educational authority. But this problem is mentioned because we finally have to enter textbooks and help with blind children, which is not a small number in Croatia, and especially those gold medals from the eighth elementary school to the high school that we already have in Croatia today. So let us enable these children and parents to be equal in law, in law enforcement, and in textbooks, which is my main goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50472	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50473	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Auxiliary Oršolić heads the Joint Programmes Management. We started co-financing these textbooks this year. So one amount has already gone. That's what I'd say more symbolicly, but next year we'll certainly continue. We talked to them about the textbooks, and I'm sure we're on to a solution. Of course, we introduced them to the fact that for those textbooks too, it must be the ministry's approval that they can't go beyond that. So thank you very much for warning me about this. And here's my chance to say that we're really working on it and we're definitely going to agree to this. We are consciously expensive textbooks that move as much as 8 thousand kunas, not 3 as much as you... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we keep these problems in mind, and we're sure we can solve them. And thanks again for the warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50474	Thank you very much. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50475	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what I think, and at the end of the debate, it's just a few things. First of all, it seems to me that generalizations in every area, even in this area are quite problematic that they can lead to the wrong conclusions. We here seem to be much more debated about general subjects, textbooks for general subjects, general educated subjects. Although almost 65% of textbooks that are in the textbook catalogue are textbooks for vocational schools that are much more problematic to solve, since there are no 2, 3, 5 or 10 parallel textbooks, but barely a single author can be found to write an excellent textbook. So it seems to me that this debate has been slightly unfairly disregarded by one of these important major segments of learning issues themselves, which are textbooks for vocational education that are extremely important. Secondly, the same thing about these generalizations applies to the issues of withdrawal, i.e. the obsolescence of matter, and I don't think that the same rule can be used for each book and for each teaching class. For example, initial reading and writing, the initial teaching of mathematics does not go out of date. 1 and 1 is 2, the triangle is a triangle, the square is a square. But in some other sciences, especially if we go to high school and some other knowledge is getting old in a much faster and different way so that any introduction of administrative rules that you would say after 3 years is changing, I think it's bad. Some categorization should be made according to content and content requirements. Secondly, there have been a lot of words, today during the debate, as everyone supports this law. I don't know how you do. As a representative, I personally received many letters from the very professional associations, publishers, authors, even the Roda parents' association came forward, and I must say I did not receive a single letter that would in any way affirmatively speak about this bill. Probably because people who are affirmative about this law don't feel they need to write and say that something is good. But far from having an agreement in the professional public and even the interested one, I refer to the opinion of the Roda parent association that thinks this law is a good solution. Once again, I find it very important that prominent textbooks are approved by the minister's solution, the minister's recommendation to approve or not approve a particular textbook gives professional commissions. To take all responsibility because of the various details that could be agreed that they were inappropriate in some textbooks on authors and to say that these terrible authors write terrible things, I think that the responsibility there is nevertheless brought together by the expert commission, i.e. professional reviewers who were obviously not professional because, as under a valid and correct book that can be entered into school, they approved something that obviously should not be if we as layters see it all together. Therefore, once again, you should consider provisions that would strengthen the responsibility of the professional committees themselves. About the provision that the whole school has to have the same textbook a lot discussed, and then say well let's put that four classes, if there's a school up to four parallels then there has to be one if there's no more. I ask why two neighbouring schools, such as Zagreb, are relatively close, would not have the same textbook. I mean, we need to define ourselves for a fundamental concept. Or we'll release freedom, and that's something that I sincerely advocate that every teacher chooses a textbook if he wants to use the textbook in his class at all, based on his superior pedagogy and the basis of his own unnamed methods to work with or to limit that there really is only one book then well. And these solutions that are somewhere in between, they simply create a much bigger mess than they were originally meant to be. A few concrete objections to the law. Article 1 of this Law regulates the publication of textbooks, etc. The provision needs to be amended. The publishing of the textbooks is arranged by the publishers, this law eventually regulates the approval procedures or find some legal formulation that may be a little better suited. As for the first article, it seems to me that there was a lot of misunderstanding in the debate because two concepts had gone wrong. The concept of a multi-aware textbook with the concept of a branched textbook. The textbook in several notebooks is not the same as the branch textbook and I can't, the ministry obviously thought that not multi-scient textbooks and couldn't agree specifically not in the lower classes of elementary school that it had to be one fresh one. It's just not good. In the definition of terms, certainly put the definition of authors, reviewers and responsibilities. In Article 3, it is necessary to define that the teaching standard is nevertheless passed by a professional body, whether the council for textbooks as it has been so far, it is not good that the minister brings it, perhaps even it would be good that in some way that this standard is confirmed by the Parliament, simply to achieve one level of consensus on what we really need, because this is obviously a lot of debate. In Article 5 which regulates what may not contain a textbook, you have only predicted that the textbook may not contain any promotional content. I think that should be complemented, the formulations of the existing law were much better because I think it should be very explicit to put that textbook cannot contain, be contrary to the Constitution, opposed to respecting some human rights etc. I'm cutting back a little bit. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The textbook must make a statement by the lecturer in the language order of Dear colleagues and colleagues in Croatia today do not have official spelling, and there are two spelling manuals that exclude each other, i.e. which are different. In accordance with which language manual the textbook must be approved. Because the two existing ones that exist are different. So let's see what we do with it, because there's no such thing as just official spelling. Article 7 is a bit confusing and inconsistencies in certain items, I suggest you redecorate it a little with one proposal, that the expert committee appointed by the secretary for the approval of textbooks should, however, provide by law that they are to be chosen either by competition, by public invitation or on a proposal by one, to reduce in some way the possibility of a discretionary decision by the minister, because we have had too many bad experiences with discretionary decisions of various ministers. About the conflict of interest. It's not a problem if someone in the family is someone in a business relationship. Croatia is a small country, our professions are small and in the largest objects that exist as Croatian, mathematics etc. where you have up to 10 people dealing with this problem. So it's a much bigger problem, are professional clans that we're not going to avoid these conflicts in a way that we define that someone signs a statement that I'm not with someone in a family relationship. And we certainly support those who have said that in some way, but it should be very careful to resort to these solutions that advisors and supervisors in the ministry can't be textbook authors, because if we cut out a counselor, if no one is allowed to be in a business relationship with anyone, I wonder who will write our textbooks because we are still a small country with small professions. As far as Article 14 is concerned, this article really needs to be distributed, it is obviously the result of many "copy paste" variants in the very making of the law, but I don't think there's any need to align the deadlines. After an article forward, the minister makes a decision by June 31st which textbook may be, and teachers, and by March 30th, a list is sent, few of these dates do not fit at all, and in any case I suggest you throw out the list, a catalogue to be read with only one concept. And finally one question. What about the textbooks for the next school year? According to this draft bill by the new year, authors and publishers were to provide manuscripts for the 1st and 5th grade for the next school year. It is obvious that it cannot work now because this law has not been passed, obviously any direction other than that would be contrary to the applicable law, so I'm only interested in how we're going to drive it to the textbooks next school year, because this is how it started and the law until it comes to another reading, until the procedure is passed in the Croatian Assembly I'm afraid that next school year we won't actually have any new textbooks, i.e. if we want to respect the legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia, that we will also have to drive through the proposition that we've had in the last few years. I think the most important thing in this debate is to repeat once again that any repression of professional autonomy, in particular the autonomy of teachers, any provisions that are administrative and which put an obstacle to the system itself increases the possibility of corruption and that any solutions that will be discussed in further discussion should consider moving obstacles from the system rather than introducing new ones, because this cannot bring us good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50476	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50477	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ms. Lugaric said that we all focused on general educational subjects, and that this is not such a problem but that it is actually the biggest problem of textbooks for vocational schools. This is incorrect because it cannot be a bigger problem for a small population than the general student population of primary schools and all secondary schools. Professional schools are a small part, and they are not a problem at all, because this law has tried to solve the hyperproduction of textbooks and their unquality, and here in Article 13, it is nice to provide a public call for approval, to order a manuscript or translation of these textbooks and to fully or partially pay for the costs of publishing them. These are textbooks with a small story, and textbooks with a small story are fellow Lesar here are textbooks for the needs of individual vocational schools and schools for students with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50478	Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50479	Thank you, Mr. President. When it comes to conflict of interest, the fact is that Croatia is a small country and in certain professions we do not have enough or not too many competent people. But don't you think, colleagues, in that case, there should be a principle of conflict of interest in all the titles or in most of the laws that are passed in this House? One of the laws that should come very quickly here for discussion in the Croatian Parliament is the Law on Theatre. There's a conflict of interest quite different solution. Croatia certainly does not have a large number of top actors, as we do not have people writing textbooks. There we give a strict ban that actors can't do other jobs without special approval. The textbooks can be written by anyone who remembers everything, and I would like to hear you, too, because you highlighted the problem of vocational and professional schools as much as the lack of textbooks for vocational schools. On the contrary, where there are small series, where you can't make good money, there's no one to answer to write a good and quality textbook.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50480	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50481	I agree with my colleague, Korenik, that conflict of interest here is a problem, but that we also understand the concept of conflict of interest, because some things simply and under the applicable laws of conflict of interest do not fall under conflict of interest at all, but I would rather call the issue of professional responsibility and be very mild in terms of some kind of beauty of transition in a democratic society itself. I don't and don't know, but I also know that 70% of textbooks in the textbook catalogue are textbooks just for vocational schools and their number shows that they can't be ignored in terms of general education, i.e. that textbooks, although textbooks for general education are more attention and include most of the population, but the quality of the entire system is precisely measured by who is the smallest, who is the weakest, and in this case are textbooks for vocational schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50482	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50483	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here, I presented to the Independent Club a large part of the debate and the views of the Independent Club on this Bill proposal, but would continue only to one part of the discussion of my colleague Lugaric, and about the deadlines you set in this Bill proposal. And indeed with these time terms something is wrong, so, of course, since we are now discussing the Bill's proposal and it is the end of the 11th month, it is absolutely certain that this Law will not be here in the Croatian Parliament, or that it is likely that it will not, as the Final Proposal of the Law, be adopted and able to be applied from 1 January of next year. However, it is likely that the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks will be adopted early next year, and when it is adopted, then a hodogram of activities in the application of this Law and related to the publishing of textbooks would follow these events. The publishers would therefore apply for the authorisation of textbooks to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports until 31 October 2006. Therefore, the possibility of this Law being applied in the sense of publishing textbooks under this Act in the 2006/2007 school year is excluded. A year. Therefore, the first application of the Law, which concerns directly students and what they have from textbooks at school, is the school year 2007/2008. Furthermore, after the publishers submitted a request by 31 October, the expert commission referred to in Article 7 of the proposed Law which gives its opinion shall follow either negatively or positively. Of course, the ministry reports on the opinion by 4 months, and that would be 28 February 2007. If the opinion of the expert commission is negative, then the rapporteur may submit a complaint to the Ministry within 8 days at the latest by 8 March 2007. The complaint is marked by the commission, and the competent ministry provides the publisher with an indication within 15 days, so on 23 March 2007. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 14, the Ministry shall, within 7 days, publish a list of approved textbooks for the upcoming school year between 23 March and 30 March. I might think it would be nice to leave a little bit more time for the Ministry to put together and put together this list of textbooks. From the published list of textbooks, the Master’s or Teacher’s Council shall select one textbook for the teaching course for the next 4 years and report it to the Ministry by 15 May 2007, and then the Ministry shall publish the catalogue by 20 May. So there is a time limit until the Teacher's Council, i.e. the school reports to the Ministry, and the Ministry is legally required to publish the textbook catalogue for just 5 days. I am sure that within 5 days, regardless of whether it is the cause of the school or the Teacher's Council or the cause of the ministry, but that 5 days is not enough and appropriate time to publish the textbook catalogue. So here, and here I suggest that actually the Proposer here consider this suggestion regarding this time period between May 15th and May 20th in terms of prolonging these five days. In view of the time-hodogram mentioned in the selection process of textbooks, therefore, I, too, join my colleague Lugaric. It is unclear that the minister approves the textbook by June 30th. I don't know what the proposal was, and I believe it's probably a mistake. So, if he were to approve the textbook by June 30th, and by 31st, it seems to me, March the Ministry issues a list of textbooks. So, the ministry issues a list of textbooks, and 3 months later, the minister has the right to approve the textbook with a solution. So there is a certain illogicality that is likely to be harmonised and that we will have as such in the final proposal of the Law. And in the end, I would also warn of the ambiguity in Article 21. A bill of law. So, I suppose that in the elementary school, the proposal, the intensity of the promoter, is the choice of textbooks through a time period of 4 years, but I think that this intention and this way, in this Article 21, could be made more transparent, i.e. a clearer way of expressing itself. Because it remains unclear what happens to textbooks that are now in place until the application of this Law. And as such, according to this article of the Law, they can remain until the school year indicated in the proposal. So what happens to them if they're not included in the textbook catalogue? In addition, according to this indicated timeline of activities in the proposed Law, the first textbooks that are the result of the application of the new Law, as I said, are possible only in the school year 2007 at 8. And according to that, in a year later, the other deadlines set in this particular article 21 are changing, and I guess it's obviously about either a printing mistake or some sort of order. So I think that even in the final proposal for the law of this date, that is, these deadlines in Article 21, the Proposer will correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50484	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50485	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister. Here's something I'm going to say, through this whole debate with a number of MPs we've heard complaints that here the Ministry is now giving us on the benches of some proposal Law on textbooks which is actually the technical nature of the Law and what we're discussing today are trichries actually, and the school is burdensome in other problems, so first of all we should edit a program of teaching and a series of other fundamental things, and then deal with this "tirable" law. It is clear that our schooling is burdened with problems and that we should thoroughly edit what our ministry is doing. Of course it would be good if we had a National Educational Programme, I agree that maybe the learning standard should be raised to a higher level of regulation, not a sublegal act. I agree that a lot more resources should be allocated to our schooling so that there would be no teaching in three shifts, but that they could be day-long residents, in which case the textbooks would not be carried home at all, they would be kept in lockers, so there would be no problem how difficult they are, but here is how we heard it today there are only a few cities, amongst the city of Rijeka, it seems to me Zagreb, here somewhere in the beginnings and the city of Zadar, but where local units finance it as an additional standard. It is also true that fellow Radoš teachers are underpaid, but I also say that many other professions in this country are still underpaid, and then we are just coming to this technical law that has tried to solve something, because just as these underpaid teachers are often surprised that they have no hearing and no torture, and I am surprised by the social Democrats that they are not bothered that parents will pay each year to their children who go to the same school, a child for a new set of textbooks because they are no longer worth it from last year. Here's the thing, and the teachers, I have to justify them there are probably under the pressure of publishing lobbys. Now I'm going to tell you about this technical and trick-or-treating law and I'm going to talk here not highly sophisticated about programs, but I'm going to talk about the experience of parents and my parenting experience, and I've got a lot of it since there are four kids and I've been through all stages of textbooks, so I've been through that stage when we were with the former minister, and the kids were getting free textbooks on the bench at the beginning of the school year, something old, something new, taught students to watch their textbooks, and then it was divided to the new generation of students next year. And I claim under the pressure of publishing lobbys that this is all done and that free textbooks and old textbooks were no longer available and then we got the Law on textbooks in 2001 and we said good competition is there, there will be textbooks more, there will be more, they will be able to choose etc., but what happened? It happened as I already said a hyper-production textbook, a bunch of clone textbooks, and now something for the section believe or not what happened to me. One year at the end of the school year, we received a list, parents list of textbooks to buy, neatly obtained these textbooks, when the children came to school, seventh grade elementary school, the teacher in geography said the following, that the geography textbook for the seventh grade of these two authors, but not the same two authors, but from another publisher. Can you believe all parents are pious, because the teacher's fear went away, probably threw in the trash a new money book and bought a new book from the same two authors for the seventh grade geography from another publisher. It is something I hope this Law will prevent, so it will enable and there needs little social sensitivity because some object that this Law makes it impossible for parents and students to choose absolutely not to stand, textbooks don't choose parents or students, textbooks choose teachers and inform you every year what you need to get for next year. Therefore, it also does not object to this Law that it pleases the great publishers. I may not understand well, but I really don't read from this law any provision that would suit a great publisher. However, Article 6 states that the application for approval is submitted to the ministry as well, so it can be submitted to any publisher and I don’t see why it would be a favor to the great publisher, I really can’t understand. Here's another thing. For the first time, I heard in the debate today that it is not mandatory to use the textbooks at all, it may be possible, but that wherever parents or perhaps students know it, that when they give them that list that costs so much and so much, that they may not have to get it, but they may not have to go to school and without textbooks or poor parents, and I am glad that Mr. Secretary of State is now blowing other winds in the ministry, because in time I couldn't come to myself in the ministry of the previous government, a certain gentleman who was on the ground, and when I warned that parents couldn't use the book of an older child for a year later, then he told me in a conversation, so you know it was eventually and unsanitious to use the same books. I said, Mr. Chief, close all public libraries immediately, because it's terribly unhygienic. Here's the answer I got, but I support this Law, I think it'll help parents, make it easier for them to get textbooks materially because they're not possible. The town of Zadar is, for example, and some other local units also as an additional standard has enabled and obtained free textbooks for one part of the school population. Clearly, not everyone can, and as long as parents have to buy those books, it was a question of why in one school? Here I am going to answer, which probably means legislator why in one school all classes of the same school year have to have the same books. Well, it's precisely because it's assumed that brothers and sisters always go to that same school and that the next generation or generation could use them in two years. Now I'm going to, that's the point and why this law and why it needs to be supported. What should be corrected by the second reading in this Act, it is as first Mr. Secretary of State definition, it is unclear, there we have listened to doubts and indeed the definition of textbooks is unclear, because it says that under the textbook in terms of this Law, the additional teaching means everything that is further said about textbooks and that is good, because then additional teaching means go to the approval of the Minister which is also good. It's good because in practice we have all kinds of collections and I don't know if any of you as a parent, when a child solves one task all afternoon and checks it with a result at the end of a book that's actually incorrect and wasting time, so that shouldn't happen. Therefore, I would ask the applicant to regulate these definitions and concepts to be consistent and clear and something else, it seems to me that it is certainly a nomotechnical error, but pay attention to Article 13 which says that in the procedure for the approval of textbooks, textbooks with a small story, textbooks for teaching the language and letters of the national minority and the foreign textbook does not apply Article 6(4), subparagraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5. It seems to me that this textbook is too much because then it would turn out that this item and that article do not apply to anything, because what is listed in Article 13(1) is everything. So, "books, textbooks with a little story." Please pay attention to that. And you certainly didn't think that, with the request for the approval of a foreign publisher, you should not submit a statement that the published and approved textbook will be identical to the textbook provided to the ministry, but you should provide evidence that the publisher is registered in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of carrying out the publishing activity, and in the definition of this, you find that the textbook for teaching language is in the letter of the national minority. The textbook of a local or foreign publisher or a foreign textbook is a textbook of a foreign publisher and writes that it must provide proof that it is registered in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50486	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50487	I'm not happy that I have to correct one of the allegations, blame Mrs. Lovrin's allegations. Namely, there is no teaching in Zagreb in one shift. In this sense, Zagreb is the worst standing environment in the Republic of Croatia. Twenty-two out of a hundred Zagreb schools work in three shifts. There are conditions to work in one shift but only spatial conditions and that's not enough. All day teaching is much more than just having space and could go into experimental work. For some schools in the center of the city of Zagreb where depopulation occurred on the periphery of the city of Zagreb 22 elementary schools unfortunately work in three shifts. They even requested permission from the ministry or the competent institutions to reduce the hour's duration from 45 to 40 minutes. Therefore, I am sorry to have to deny you, it is not, but there are conditions for experimental work in the whole-day teaching center of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50488	Thank you. Second correction by respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50489	Here is a small one note, i.e. a correction regarding the thesis of social Democrats in the city of Zagreb where social Democrats are in power all primary school students receive free textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50490	Third correction by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50491	It is incorrect to quote colleague Lovrin that free textbooks are lifted because of pressure and lobby publishers. Those textbooks were lifted free of charge because they were simply bad. All those who remember that time know that they were limited to two authorial arks, that these were tight paper textbooks and that just after a few months of use they were decomposed from the technical side, and in substance everything that has happened in the last few years is just in favor of the fact that with the pluralism of the textbook itself, there has been a quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50492	Thank you. Replica esteemed Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, indeed, we Social Democrats, as well as you Democrats, are plagued by the price of textbooks. And for that very reason, we stand up for it, and we think that we should be advocating the disseminating of textbooks and multi-secularism precisely because we have notebooks in which nothing is entered, in notebooks that can be inherited, which can therefore be given into the family, on the one hand. On the other hand, believe that parents are also keenly interested in connecting and parents have their own channels so that they can sell these textbooks for a better price or a gift. And like I said in my debate. The fact is, we need to work on the consciousness of our textbooks to keep the textbooks safe. Then we will have a perfectly secure situation so that such a branch textbook, such a multi - Christian textbook can be inherited, but on the other hand they will not be able to inherit it if the students themselves, the disciples themselves, will not keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50494	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50495	Well, I am extremely pleased to hear now that social Democrats as well as we Democrats are concerned about the social status of parents, students. I didn't hear that now. Well, here's what I might hear in the replicas. And the students, it's not true that hyperproduction and that more textbooks led to the quality of textbooks. On the contrary, the authors make it up, and that's why your kids get books with nonstop sentences, with scary sentences just to make up that something else than last year was published and what's different and technical by quality these textbooks are terrible, so they can't last a year, and let alone save themselves. So they have to become quality by content, by way of expression and by technical quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50496	The second replica of the respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50497	In her presentation, my colleague Lovrin asked how, that she did not understand how this law favors a small number of great publishers. My colleague Lovrin, this law does not suit a small number of large publishers in the approval process because it is true what you said that every publisher can report to the ministry as small and large as possible and if he has a quality book that will then receive approval for school use. What is hidden here is the election procedure in schools that says they will have in school, is in line with the proposal of this law in the application of those three textbooks, which are defined by the highest number of teachers or teachers. And that's why it suits the big publishers. So far, because there are known cases, I think it's a general place to understand everyone who knows that the great publishers simply have more money so then say you pick my textbook and I'll give for school projector, TV or simply in some other way legally bribe the director to choose exactly the book of that publisher. Little publishers don't have any money for that. And this law, which transfers the decision on the choice of textbooks to the principal, or to the teaching council, right under one of these manipulations, makes it possible for large publishers to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50498	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50499	So I really don't understand what we're talking about right now, about how much someone's gonna sell, who's got how much money to buy, about corruption, and so on. Therefore, it is available to all small and large publishers to report and report their textbook. Then we can talk. There was a speech today, someone said that the 2001 law actually affected the fact that there were no tails in front of the bookstore. Absolutely incorrectly, it was influenced by the fact that companies were able to manage, so they were also moving, not waiting for parents at school, but moving towards schools, offering their textbooks, selling directly in schools by lists, and also offering a computer, TV, or what. But what are we talking about here? To prevent those who have money from buying someone's computer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50500	Third replicated representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50501	Thank you, Mr. President. So I find it justified that my colleague Lovrin was surprised when someone at the ministry told her that those books, textbooks passed down from generation to generation, would still be unhygiene for use. However, what seems to me to be supposed to cause serious concern and our disdain is unhygienic content, and then the books that are quite new and hygienic like this "receive facie" are fine. There were a lot of unhygienic content, especially until 2000 when the unfavourable authors were thrown out of mandatory literature, from our textbooks, unhygienic content for first class when giving mother instructions, please make up the dough, when children from history are taught facts and facts where history has been falsified, where the facts of the historical holocaust have been cast out, where, where the fascist army has been declared a Croatian army and so on. I therefore warn here that everyone should be concerned and condemn this unhygienic content.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50502	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50503	I was talking about physical unhygiene, you understood me, not mental. My colleague Antičević, if you care so much about mental hygiene in these textbooks it's strange that you never wondered what we've been like, what we've learned in history for 40 years, and it's never been questioned only by the truth and unfortunately the vast majority here is taught and still influenced by what is 45 years unilaterally... /Applause./ [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50504	Replica. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Why don't you calm them down? I'm also asking that my time extend until then, but it's still my turn. I think it's time for Mr. President and Doc, yes, and while her colleague Ingrid was talking, the others were getting tired, let her calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50506	Yeah, it's a little south.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50507	The fact is that colleagues Lovrin spoke about the price of textbooks and about a possible monopoly forgot one thing. If it decides that one textbook has, and this is theoretically possible 80% of the market...... My colleagues wanted you to admit it or not, it's a slow monopoly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The future will very quickly show you and me whether those who will eventually hold 80% of the single textbook market will lower that price or will remain as much as it was at the beginning. By the way, be told to a small publisher who issues a textbook that will not be approved and who will not find its way to the market that is a major financial effort. But this great, and he will be able to he will be able to issue textbooks, if he does not pass it it is a small financial moment for him. Turns out we're still guessing they want you to admit it or not big.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50508	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50509	Mr. Representative, it's not true that I can even agree on this monopoly. A possible monopoly over four years, but that doesn't fit to be a great publisher because that monopoly can get a little publisher. So about a possible monopoly where this publisher will be sure of his production and distribution for the next 4 years that's true. About that, the Ministry might think about, how, how to disable it but I'm certainly telling you that the hyperproduction of textbooks did not bring a lower price for textbooks. On the contrary, these are small accounts. We all know that a little piece of shit costs a lot. Since the higher the nature of things must be lower, and to protect from this baseless price increase through the four safe monopoly years, the Ministry may consider this until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50510	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50511	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we've been discussing this law all day. It points to the good and bad side of the proposed Law. The primary and secondary school program is being discussed. He's arguing about the standard. It is debated and pointed to what is very important because our children's education is very important, it is said in the Republic of Croatia, and I will hope that our children's education is very important in Croatian, all those children born outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, or our children, our citizens abroad and Croatian national minorities. The proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools in some articles lacks the gentlemen of the State Secretary of State provisions on teaching textbooks with children of Croatian citizens abroad, so I will point out something and suggest that my remarks will be included until the second reading. If not, I'll write the amendment. Please, Article 2. I suggest you insert a textbook for extra education with children of Croatian citizens abroad, a textbook by a local publisher printed in Croatian, intended for the education of children of Croatian citizens abroad. And in accordance with Article 13, paragraph 1 of the inserted textbook for supplementary teaching with children of Croatian citizens abroad, so as to read Article 13: "In the procedure for the approval of textbooks with a small story, teaching textbooks in the language and letter of the national minority, textbooks for supplementary teaching with children of Croatian citizens abroad and a foreign textbook shall not apply Article 6(4), subparagraph 2, 3, 4 and 5 and Article 1 of Article 15 of this proposal." If you answer me that the recipient countries may respond to this article, the recipient countries do not have the right to react to this article because it is known in advance that textbooks, the program of textbooks for Croatian supplementary teaching with, for our children abroad will not destroy the sovereignty of the receiving country nor will it be in accordance with the Constitution of the receiving country. However, since at the time of the adoption of the State budget, the figures are constantly mentioned through the figures are sometimes said to be how much and how much the Croatian state invests in the education of our children born abroad. I think this item, which was determined by the budget of the Republic of Croatia, is 23 million 318 thousand and 419 kuna. There is no Mr. Stazic here who called me yesterday, is worth it but is even more valuable are children who attend school, who attend Croatian supplemental classes speak better Croatian than those children who do not attend. Mrs Lovrin praised her 4 children attending Croatian classes in Croatia. I gave birth to three children outside my home country. Unfortunately, my youngest child attended the Croatian supplemental class. For two older children, I didn't have that chance, and that proves to me that my youngest child speaks much better Croatian than two older ones. I, as a mother, did a lot of things to speak Croatian. That they know the history and literature of Croatia, and Croatian literature. However, my Ivana speaks better Croatian than two older children. Well gentlemen, in the hope that my remarks will be accepted and I am particularly pleased with Article 7 which also says: In determining the consistency of the adult education textbook, one of the members of the expert commission must be a person or a practitioner. Those Croatian teachers who have had the chance or luck to work with our children abroad in the hope that they will cooperate on the textbook, I am just reading an article in one Croatian weekly, in this link are the most valuable, i.e. the most basic moves of each teacher and a good textbook is one good link in that chain. So I will answer the following, or I will inform you fellow representatives of the Croatian state not only about our children members who are living in European overseas countries, for the purposes of members of the Croatian national minority in the European countries in 2004 the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports spent the funds as follows. The organisation of the Croatian language and culture teaching for members of the Croatian national minority in Italy, Romania, Slovakia, Serbia-Montenegro, Austria through a bilateral co-operation programme of one million and three hundred thousand kuna. Professional literature 134,000 kunas. Seminar for professional training of members of the Croatian national minority 200 thousand kuna. International school co-operation of 141 thousand and 500 kuna, scholarships to members of the Croatian national minority only through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are 313 thousand and 200 kuna. Overall, through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, we must say that the amount of 2 million is 88 thousand and 700 kuna. This is not a great deal of value, but it's worth more than the million and a half kuna that Mr. Stazic called me on yesterday. And finally, I have to look back on what's being said here today. I will certainly leave the textbook program for the Croatian supplemental course to those, which is a profession and will not forget what is very important, as the Croatian supplementary continues to teach national subjects, Croatian language, history and geography. I hope that Croatian history, that it will be true, that in Croatian history our children born outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia will be proud and will be happy to teach it, as children in Croatia learn. And don't let the gentlemen learn a twisted history because we've been filling up with lies for 50 years, but those truths haven't made us degeneric, yet parenting has made us real people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50512	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will try to speak first of all at this point from the position of the parents whose two children completed a total of 24 grades in primary and high school. It's some experience based on which I want to talk about this topic about textbooks. Not on the subject as a colleague of Lugarić who certainly has much more experience regarding the very issues from the professional point of view, but I think it is necessary to hear this other side of the medal. From such personal experience, I will also try to convey the position of the great majority of parents, at least those with whom I have been in contact, because in my opinion, the parents are the ones who, together with their children, are the best and deepest and most intimately connected with textbooks in our schools. And what's the situation in our schools? According to some data available to me, I learned that Croatian students learn from about a thousand 200 textbooks and manuals, that for one subject there are also 9 textbooks and manuals, that about 10 publishers issue about 500 titles for primary schools and 15 more than 600 titles for secondary schools. It's almost 150 to 200 titles each year. The result is confused and bewildered students, but also parents who do not know in what way to do what years, what title to buy, how to explain to children that they cannot have from their brother or sister books that they had just 2, 3, or maybe even a year ago. What is also visible to every parent is the fact that around the textbook in our Croatian society there is a lot of money. The textbooks and manuals are also goods and are subject to the laws of the market. Some studies suggest that about 300 million kunas are turned annually in this business, which is certainly a great deal of money that we can't forget when we talk about this subject. In my view, you should do everything possible to reduce the number of textbooks, because it will only make them cheaper, and will likely be able to achieve a higher quality and will be more accessible. The authors of the textbook certainly look at the problem from different sides and different glasses than one parent does. But ultimately, the evaluation of textbooks in any case, regardless of which side and whose positions it was viewed from, because a little reality if taken, is not brighter in Croatian schooling. With rare exceptions, they are above all too extensive. So you have cases of having even thicker textbooks than university textbooks in the early grade of elementary school. A little funny and weird but true. In the first four classes, such textbooks can be found. In many ways, they are messy and confusing, both graphic and methodological. They are usually unadjusted by the age they are intended for, and in most cases they are doactically inactive, which means unattractive. When we talk about textbooks we talk about and think first of all about 3 factors that intertwine in that story, which is the publisher, ministry and third, they are children and parents or parents and children. Anyway, because they're connected to each other and they can't perform as independent, especially children. These 3 groups are very often not only intertwined but are opposed to each other by the nature of their wishes, demands and desires that show in the whole work that we call publishing activity in textbooks. The publishers, it's known, exclusive and the only intention and the goal is to earn money. The ministry leads, or should be concerned, that textbooks have a level of education and education. The role of the state and the ministry, and according to me and this law that I am going to have to say immediately and support it to decide that the goal of the fast earner would not be to win the goal of parents and children. And the goal of parents and children is to reach an attractive, quality and cheap textbook. In my humble thinking, such a textbook should have or must have two aspects like this. He should be like that if a student accepts him with joy and pleasure. This would have to be achieved by the textbook and can be achieved both by graphics and content. And the best assessment of the textbook is whether it is good or not is whether children learn from it or learn from the notebooks. If children learn from the notebooks it is one of the signs by me that the textbook is not good. And secondly, the textbook would have to be so summed up that it's impossible to make something more summary out of it. So no summary from that textbook should be made for him to be good. The profession should be the one who chooses the textbook, but not at class level, but at school level and not for one year. They would have to teach children through textbooks and through their appearance, that is, their perseverance, that the textbook is not a salad. So it's not consumer goods, it's book textbook, and the book is permanent value. If by this law, and I see that there is a sign that this law, if there are any other things that the predecessors have talked about to another reading and repair, and they bring some more new things into the text of the law, it will do so, even though this law is on the verge of correcting these things that I was talking about, I am certainly one of those who will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50514	Thank you, dear fellow Dancer. It's time for my dear colleague, Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we see after this whole day's debate how important this law is, and I must say that most of the school's public supports it. Especially this introduction of order on the textbook market. I held two working meetings with the representatives of teachers and directors from my county and almost everyone supported the adoption of such a law. Since I received some of their suggestions I will say them here, and one of them I also said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. They sought and supported the request to define precisely in this law who can be the author of the textbook, I will not again convince the reason why. They also made one suggestion that it might be good with Article 7 of this proposed law in the selection committee of textbooks, because it is very important in basic school textbooks because of the age of the child and the precise development needs of students and minor ages. I think it's also on the trail of what my colleague was saying, so that this textbook is really appropriate to the age it's intended for. They certainly supported the reduction in the number of textbooks to three per course. It may also be necessary to consider whether the choice of textbooks should be left to the teacher or professional, or to the teacher-teacher council. They've advocated, I won't repeat, for the quality of the textbooks, but not only in content, I think that it will also arise in the student standard, by adopting a textbook standard that really must be here, I would say in a speech in the slang a solid textbook standard that can't miss those textbooks that bring false, unquality facts, materially outdated facts. Also if I think it should be prescribed in the textbook standard that it must be a technical quality textbook. I'll tell you the example this year. It was worth the City of Zagreb's action to help those textbooks of their students who no longer need for this school year direct to the area of special state care where we know the social status of students is lower and in some way helps parents and students not have to buy all the textbooks but have provided old textbooks according to the list. You won't believe a very valuable action that turned into a problem for delivering textbooks that were so technically unquality, I mean textbooks on the circuit, that we got a bunch of paper sheets that barely connected. So textbooks that have only been used for one year, because the City of Zagreb, and we have already heard that, buys its students textbooks. So after one year of using textbooks they were no longer for use. Here's just enough, that quality really has to be proven. It's a good thing this law is also prescribed, and I've already talked about it, so I won't even extend it, pulling textbooks out of use in exactly certain cases, especially in those I talked about, those who followed the debate know when some of the data that's out of date are still in the textbooks. Of course, this Article 8 in which it is defined and the composition of the commission to prevent conflicts of interest, and that is also important in the Committee on Science and Education, was such a debate and this is very important because it is a newspaper in this law. I think as well as my colleague Plesa, that it is necessary to limit the use of textbooks, whether she is four years or older, maybe time will show its own, and I think it is important that this restriction of textbooks does not think that the textbook that is coming will, and it is more high-quality by the commission's judgment, that he will be prevented from entering the education system in those four years. I should also point out that all those involved in changing the education system and this vocational education should be warned that there is indeed a lack of quality textbooks in vocational education and that it is possible for the ministry to encourage both publishers and authors to create exactly new quality, modern textbooks. Well, maybe that's it, 'cause I've already spoken on behalf of the Cubans and on behalf of the board, and then a contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50516	Thank you, dear colleague. There's a respected colleague of Chichin-Shain's. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's coming, dear colleague Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that there's too little talk in this discussion about what's actually important in education, and there's a constant movement, and there's no reform. Our complete education system, all its three dimensions, so primary education, secondary education and higher education is in the reform phase. New things happen. It's not so many characteristics these past few years, all of us who have spent a few dozen years in education know that education, learning, the way we approach knowledge to our students, students that I'm not talking about content itself, must change every so many years, stop being interesting and actually loses the function that makes him, which is why he's in an educational institution. But what are the preconditions for reform? Under a) people, under b) people, under c) people, under d) money and under e) will. Now that will can be declarative, and it can be real. That the declarative will for education reform is confirmed by this law. Here's the new Law on textbooks, so there's nothing wrong with the system, things don't work out, the ministry reacts and makes new laws. So he has the will to change. The declared will, the declared will. The real will was seen yesterday. The real will has shown that the Republic of Croatia, this authority has the will to improve the status of education in 2006 by 6% and that 6% is what education is waiting for next year. Of course, these 6% include elements under a), b) and c), i.e. People. These people will be paid more than 2.5% next year. Growth in gross social product is planned for 3 and some percent, inflation is also likely, so these people are going to have less salary throughout the year and it's time for someone to tell them. The system is being reformed, news is being introduced, we're going into the knowledge society. Knowledge is the only commodity we actually have that we can get into all those integrations we're talking about, the society of all those countries we admire, and we're ready to invest in 2006, which is the year before the year before we're seriously going to see if we can be like us in the European Union or not, 6% of the social budget, the state budget. But obviously this factor is under d), i.e. Money, there is no need for this. The reform in higher education, this ragged Bologna, was made by a declarative part of the factor e) i.e. By will, I'm told we're going to Bologna now, so we've made new programs in all the high schools. These programs have been reviewed, verified and we have started with a new generation to work towards a Bologna system that does not only predict a 3+2+3 new system, a new scheme than predicts a completely different work with students, mentoring work, individual work, work on projects, "case studies" and similar things that require about twice as many teachers in higher education as we have. I accidentally did a calculation of how much it would really cost my college program to actually pay by the criteria of the Bologna Declaration. Today’s college has a budget of around 25 million kuna would cost 83 million kuna. Of course there's no money, it's clear to everyone, of course there won't be any. But instead of 25, it'll probably be 6% higher. I don't know how much that is, but we should figure it out now. And there won't even be 35, so at least one step forward. The reform in secondary education presupposes, first of all, the state's graduation. In order to spend four years in a state prom, children who have enrolled this year in the first grade should already have textbooks. You should have them by now, textbooks that will, in which there will be, the knowledge that will be examined at the state's graduation in four years. We discussed yesterday the statutes of the Centre for the External Evaluation of Higher Education, which should now be organised by the state's prom. So, since national high school, there's actually not even a "d" yet. We don't know what's going to happen, there's no program, there's not even a center that should be developed. Reforming basic education, and this is one small step. I have to say, somewhat clumsy, I have objections to some solutions in the law, and I'll talk about it later. The basis of basic education reform should be one-way work. So, the kid comes to school in the morning at 8:9 p.m. when he stays at school until 4:5 p.m. At that school, she learns everything she needs to learn, doesn't have to go home with her mom and dad to work out her assignments. He goes home, he plays, he rests, he comes to school tomorrow and so on. It is in Zagreb that the most developed part of Croatia is impossible. According to the Varazdin mayor, this will be possible in Varazdin County in 2 to 3 years. That's the kind of project they set up in Varazdin County. No one seems to think about it as a whole in Croatia. Otherwise, the proposals from this law wouldn't look what they look like. If textbooks are worth 4 years, they are published next year, they are worth the situation in which children and textbooks take home and study at home. So no one assumes that in four years, children will be leaving textbooks at school. Otherwise, it would probably have been a different solution. The solutions in this text of the law seem a little strange, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I didn't get it right. It's primarily about these dates. If, for example, the Minister adopts a similarity solution for the use of textbooks by 30 June of a particular school year, let's say, the following is the post-school year, i.e. the school year 2006/2007, and the dates referred to in Article 14 actually match or are very close to that date referred to in Article 10. I do not see how the textbook can be given in the procedure in the same year, approved and applied in practice next year. The dates set out in this Article shall make it impossible to do so. Once again, I can't believe that the bill promoter really meant it, I think it was a mistake. It can't be different, it can't be different. Article 13 discusses the procedure for approving textbooks with a small story. These are textbooks, for example, for specific professions and the like, and says that Article 6(4), subparagraphs 2, 3 and 4. One of these sub-assemblies is about the need to review the textbooks. I'm the author of a couple of university textbooks that are by definition textbooks of small talk. So 100, 200, 300 copies. It didn't occur to me to try to go out with a textbook without a professional review of three university professors and who needs to say anything about it. Not only do I not think it's possible but I don't think it's good. I don't think it's a good idea to be in front of the kids of primary school, high school, college students, whatever material they should be learning from, and if not seen by one group of experts who's gonna say this right, a colleague, and this colleague of mine could fix it, we could totally throw this out, and forget it. This doesn't belong in the textbook. It seems to me that it is a mistake and that error should simply be changed in the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50518	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50519	Thank you very much, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, a lot of the opinions and reflections of this bill have been expressed here. The idea of liberalism embedded in the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks, which was adopted in 2001, has so far become a market fundamentalism. That's what this High House said today. Teachers add that there are too many parallel textbooks and that the number should be reduced. Parents say that often textbooks cannot be inherited, say bags are too heavy, say textbooks are expensive. All of these are reason enough to go into change, looking for better solutions to this problem. So let me, and back in the year, a few MPs said that something should be changed, that these solutions are not the best. First from the opposition benches and later from the post. It's a very clear signal that we need to change something, and that's where we're headed. You've made a lot of remarks here, good thinking, you're suggesting that we change the definitions of textbooks, that it might spread a little bit in terms of the time we're in. It is suggested to further define who might be the author. You're talking about the teaching standard that a body needs to be proposed by a minister to bring it in. The doubts are about deadlines. You suggest that deadlines be reconsidered, that the first 120-day deadline may be reduced to 90 days. To open up the possibility of finishing up for those textbooks that really need to be completed, however, there is one part of the textbook that is proposed to the Ministry of Authorisation, which can't be saved by any kind of work. You have proposed some other solutions to the conflict of interest defined here in Article 8. I'd say good. It is also proposed to introduce that constitutional provision that speaks of both national minorities and equality at all other levels. Four years of school selection is a problem. The argument is that it takes a hard undertaking, that this soft circuit won't hold, and that the hard circuit would collect textbooks. Interesting thinking. Furthermore, some of the esteemed MPs for freedom of choice are advocated when it comes to teachers. So that's not what teaching councils do. Also when it comes to the 3 best-placed textbooks to choose from them, there are suggestions that may also count on some kind of development textbook so that, if I may translate it like that, it may be 3+1. You're worried about small reports, of course we're worried, and we're in the state budget for small claims, the question is how can an invitation call go? There is a great concern of course not only for vocational schools but also for members of national minorities, but also for persons with special needs. You're talking about better defining, or sharpening the responsibility of professional committees and decedents, and we're certainly counting on it, and it's certain that what we're proposing now to sign a statement, so far it hasn't been, but we've offered to sign a statement that only morally bound them by law? You are also proposing that this is reflected by the Children's Council or the Council of Students, which is also not a bad proposal, and of course here is a concern for the extra education abroad that is mentioned in Article 7 where three practitioners are mentioned, so people who worked with our children abroad are asked to enter that term in Article 2. Thank you very much to all of you who participated in the debate have made very good proposals and I will admit here, help us to remove some doubts and prepare the Law for a second reading with an even better text thanks to your discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50520	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now the goddess Talia will enter the assembly. Proposal for a law on textbooks for basics and high school. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 7 abstentions and 12 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50523	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Croatia's legislative legal tradition in the area of theatre has been continuing for more than 130 years. The first Theatre Law was passed in 1861, and in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Theatre was adopted in 1991 as one of the first regulations in the field of culture in the new state. It was later changed in '95, '97. and in 2000. Their abundance and repertoire of Croatian theatres bring about the diversity and regional spread of theatre life. Of the 75 theatres, 42 are professional, of which 13 children and 33 amateur theatres are distributed in a good part evenly throughout the territory of Croatia. The richness and diversity of theatre life are complemented by numerous festivals and other theatre events, as well as private theatres and theatre families which had their own abundance and especially meaning for war-related areas and areas of special state concern. Detailed figures are contained in the opening part of the proposal for this Law before you. The entire Law on Theatres is to establish a system that will enable theatres to carry out their activities uninterrupted as well as their survival in the times ahead. With respect to fundamental European standards, transparency and the availability of public money by taxpayers as well as the multi-annual planning standard, full freedom of artistic creation is ensured. This Bill proposal aims to direct public theatres to care for the theatre audience that earned it and is worth it because it will also give the public quality art programs for the investment funds. The proposed Law regulates the performance of theatre activities, the establishment of theatres and theatre groups, the financing, the formation and management of theatres, the conditions and the procedure of appointment, and the obligations and rights of itents, business directors and directors of public theatres, the position of theatre artists and other theatre workers and other issues of importance for theatre activity. With the establishment of theatres and theatre groups as public institutions, the possibility of establishing a permanent or temporary National Theatre Ensemble as a theatre family will also be opened, thus achieving the possibility of a targeted establishment of an ensemble of a specific profile as needed for certain repertoires or projects. The proposal for this Law sparked public debate, numerous comments before it came to this High House and criticism that would certainly contribute to the creation of final legal solutions. By respecting just some of the comments made publicly, you will allow me to further explain some of its provisions in the presentation of the bill, and we do not claim that the proposed solutions are the best, but we point to questions that would be good for the final text of the Law to be resolved, that is to say, to be regulated. When it comes to the management of the public theatre, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, the City of Zagreb, the county or the city or municipalities, we are obliged to face the fact from our reality before the debate. One of these is that the business results of public theatres were achieved in 2004, according to which 50% of public theatres ended the business year with a loss. Further analysis shows that it is not a worse year, but that the trend exists for a long time and is on a continuous rise. The analysis has shown that only two reasons are possible, which is that the founder did not provide additional resources for the work of the theatre or that theatre administrations were in some way wasteful. In order to remove both possible reasons, we have obliged the Founder to establish the programme guidelines and the financial framework for the next term of office to guarantee sufficient financial resources in order to call for tendering. This obligation by the founder of the theatre to establish a financial framework for the upcoming four-year period is very easy to implement in the tendering process. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government are obliged to establish budgetary projections for a three-year period on the occasion of the adoption of the budget. This is exactly how the tender procedure was conducted in selecting the identity of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb because it offered a four-year programme with a financial plan. The possible availability of the intelligence will be monitored by the Board of Directors. The introduction of the Governing Council shall aim to gain insight into the implementation of the programme by the Institute as well as to monitor the availability of budgetary resources provided by the Founder. Contemporary management does not know the practice without supervision, and the Administrative Council in the theatre plays that role according to the bill's proposal and intensities of the promoters, but it seems that some may be unintelligible, public surveillance has been feared. It is important to note that the founder for members of the Governing Council appoints prominent artists or cultural workers, which is why he should not be afraid because the introduction of the Council does not involve politicising theatre. So, not the Administrative Council some new bauk because all institutions in culture have been working for years without any problems. The administrative councils are truly independent, will reduce the possibility of abuse, and will introduce a general social interest into the theatre more strongly than ever before, the interest of the founder who, of course, has a legal right to do so. The bill respects Croatia's theatre tradition, according to which the public theatre is led by an intent, i.e. the director. The draft law introduces a special director only in national theatres and is his task to assist the applicant in carrying out financial and legal transactions. The proposal clearly distinguishes the powers of the applicant who is the artistic head of the business theatre, who runs business policy and is responsible for the legality of work. Almost everything is in the function of the Institute and the Law and the Act and the actors and the audiences and the funds, because the bill ensures the implementation of the program of work of the Institute, i.e. the Director, which includes financial and staff frameworks. The Inident Program is the basis for the artistic and business realization of the programme in its mandate, the business director at the National Theatre Assistant, as well as assistants of the Institute and the Administrative Council have the primary task of ensuring the implementation of the program of the Institute. The proposal of the Law on Theatres is in line with the existing Labour Act and in line with the needs of the theatre, enables the employment of theatre artists and other theatre workers, primarily for a specific time for a particular project or programme, but also enables the employment indefinitely. This opens up the possibility of an Incident in the creation of a human resources policy that will implement the accepted programme. Here we should note that the personnel plan is also an integral part of the programme with which the indent gets his mandate. The proposal of the Law on Theatre does not prohibit anything but Croatian legislation through the Labour Act prohibits an unfair match between employees and employers, and it is also regulated by a labour contract. Theatre artists are not an exception, and there are no exceptions in other activities where, in accordance with European practice, theatre jobs outside the theatre house, with the previous written consent of the intensifiers or directors, the same principle applies to the intensifier or director who needs the consent of the board of directors for tasks outside the theatre. The involvement of theatre artists at a certain time or according to a specific project or programme will bring about better use and mobility of theatre artists, but at the same time, the unfair competition of theatre artists in public theatres over an independent theatre artist will be disabled. To clarify, an actor at the public theatre has paid both health and pension insurance while an independent artist is of course not in such a favourable position. As a culture minister, this fact cannot be ignored because it would allow a decision to close an individual theatre house in Croatia as in some Western European states. We have therefore come very responsible for proposing a system of public theatre management, especially in national houses. Work on the new law began for about three years, and numerous meetings were held during this period and numerous aspects and problems from Croatian theatre practice were considered. The activities were also attended by theatre artists, individuals, mayors and other representatives of public theatre founders as well as representatives of private theatres in the Republic of Croatia. Following this, a number of proposals have been put in place in the current bill of law but certainly not all of them. But believe that in the upcoming public debate, we will consider all the solutions offered and put the most qualitative proposals in the final draft of the law. I would especially like to point out that we are particularly pleased that even before the first reading this broad and quality public debate has opened up, which shows that certain improvements are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50524	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50525	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable minister says that people from the theatre participated in this bill and that their remarks were introduced into the bill. They do, however, show quite differently. They say they have been invited to participate in the work and have made comments and suggestions but that absolutely none of what they have proposed is respected. There was a bill that completely rejected, which rejected everything they had proposed at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50526	Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50527	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Theatres P.Z. at the 18th session of 13 November this year. No. 361 delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the issue and discussed it as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The participants of the debate have come forward from different sides and views on all the key issues that this bill adopts in its resolutions, including the need for a new law to be adopted at this point in the first place. In particular, the issues of administrative councils as proposed new forms of governance for theatre institutions, the question of the operation of theatre institutions, the question of the status of theatre artists and the status of national theatres have been thoroughly considered. Participants in the debate agree that when it comes to the position of theatre artists, an appropriate relationship between the security requirements should be established, in particular when it comes to workers who have already achieved a longer working relationship and require the smooth mobility of theatre artists due to the specificity and specificity of the theatre call. In the debate, the relevant solutions in our immediate and remote countries, or national cultures, have been pointed out, with the need to accept the situation and existing Croatian experiences to the extent necessary. After the debate, the majority of votes came to the conclusion: "It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal for a law on theatres. All proposals, objections and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50528	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club representatives of HSLS, LS, DC, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50529	Dear Mr. President, the honored representatives of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! I've been a parliamentary representative for quite a long time, but as rare as I am when we have this one law to talk about, I'm confused, and maybe I've never been prepared before, but I feel like I'm never actually more unprepared to talk about it. I have these days taken out the Theatre of Opinions from people who are somehow dragged into this whole story and precisely their comments say how confused they really are, so if they are confused actors, directors, some of them are signed on that website, some of them speak, some of them retain the right to anonymity but I'm afraid it shows that this law really is here before entering the procedure itself has caused a whole series of reactions that I say at least to us here who should now in some way define and give this law or passing or green light or red also have to be really confused. What happened to me from a rather detailed analysis like this actually made me talk to you at least at two levels all the time. On the one hand, some talk about art, about culture, about the importance of theatre and actually trying to transfer it all to the artistic field, and on the other hand, the same thing here seems to me to be one of those fundamental intensities as much as possible to read this law is actually trying to introduce something called financial control over the funds that founders set out for it, however, let's be honest, necessary but still expensive toy. And there are actually fundamental problems in my opinion, and it seems to me that somewhere in there, a legislator might have to find a clearer or better balance to explain that no one should or should question artistic independence with something called still controlling the funds that stand out for our theatres. I have experience from this Osijek theater. The town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County costs about 20 million kuna annually. These are taxpayers' money and should indeed be carefully distributed with them. And the very fact that just on artistic freedom and in some way that politics is out of that whole story should in no way interfere with exactly this intervention, which is that these funds are being spent as meaningfully as possible. And I'm saying, obviously, that's where the problems arise because when these two fields get interfered then we have these problems that this reading on this website I have to admit that it's either led me or sometimes to laughter, and sometimes I have to admit that I was, or very concerned about the state of those people who react in this way. There are cursings, there are these, these names of people in bureaucrats at the Ministry who are making laws against artistic freedoms. I think we have to admit that selecting an intensifier is always "par exellence" politically and only a political act and I'm afraid and nothing more. No matter how much we try to distance ourselves from all of this, and I simply don't remember whether any choice backwards for 10 years in Croatia from Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek had no political implications and were no problems. The setting of Mrs. Mani Gotovac in Split and later colleagues Štrljić and the problem of colleagues Šnyder in ZKM and Tarbuka then Mrs. Lederer and now there are these newest feelings and feelings of this opportunity and the troubles exactly show that whatever you actually choose to do, that you will always find a certain political option that will put serious or, well, or rather rather justified remarks precisely on, just in such a choice. And I'm afraid that no law in this world will be able to solve our political, political differences, that is, that is, the fact that politics is very important to control the theater and that always the ruling set within that body, which is the founder it wants to have control over. They say that when those colonels in Greece came to power there in 1967, then what they first did was that they banned the performance, could be read, the books of Eshill, Sophocles and Euripid could be purchased but could not be performed at the theatre. That's already been more dangerous. It could have been read, but every stage actually showed that Sophocles or Eshill or these, these ancient, ancient tragedies, so that they could be read in a way that the existing government would question. So obviously there's always this fear with us that a theater like this best excuse for life sometimes could really come back to us as a boomerang and then see that we're not as beautiful, wise and smart as any government likes to think about itself. And now, if you really want to limit the intensities, or if you want to introduce one specific, certain control mechanism in the form of a financial director... I think that there could be some more elegant solution to actually not being made from these websites and these comments by serious people dealing with theatre activity that could be read that because of only one recent intensities in the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb that I don't know made certain debts and now in some way because he made debts, now this particular case would in some way be the law then, this new law would have had to sanction it in some way or that it does, or that it does seem to me a little utopian note, which is that, right now, that the introduction of this one control mechanism would prevent some new cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to talk about names because obviously we didn't agree until the end whether the theater, whether the theater is a cost that is really necessary, which every culture in some way just by definition that there is a minister, Mr. Minister when he started talking then so we're also saying that it's very... It's very important when, when we had theaters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about our Hvar theater. We are talking about the tradition of playing in Croatian. We in Osijek quite like to say that our theater is the oldest theater on that part, that part of Europe, and obviously in this way we show that, that some sentimental relationship with that fact and obviously to say that fact, I say cost, and when some of the little boys are playing, that's when we have to get one of these laws that should solve this dilemma, this dilemma that's called that the intendant no longer actually be, not the main one but here even there somewhere and it says, in 2001, the president of the state brought down on the ficus, so now this Act on the theatre brings down the intendant to the fics in favor of some other, some other people inside, within the theater. I'm saying I'm afraid that no problem, no quality problem, all that... What you really want will not be solved by such laws and yet on the other hand, which is positive in this law, which is that in some way actors or artists are brought to the same level as other people who also exercise their right to work for a certain time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there is, I don't know, an audition institute and in a way that no one else in this society can guarantee a permanent job and that it's in some way trying to get to this, this networking thing in fact. We have previously, it seems to me that we are too little, too small a country of 4, 4 and a half million people that in some ways, I don't know in Split and Osijek are playing absolutely the same plays and there is no communication between these theatres and it actually comes down to a few of these, on several festivals, on some Marulic's days when there is a certain selection and a certain organisation of these programs, and in fact I don't think that, I don't know, 4 ballets or 4 operas or 4 of these national dramas, almost that 4, 4 and a half million citizens of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers are all able to support and can't pay, and that very often these shows that are not cheap for too many audiences and that there are not really any, no reflexes, any reflexes, reflexes, which, which are actually, which are actually being set up. That it is not set in order, but that it is, there is also a deeper and deeper message. That would, that seems to me that there is this particular idea in this law, a light motive to do so, but it seems to me that it's not enough, it's not explicit enough, and what if, if this second reading were to come to some kind of amendment that would actually be on that trail, in that trail to come to one real, real communication and exchange that is actually necessary in one so small, so small state then I believe that, in order for this law to gain its own purpose. What I'm saying is, after all, I think that, that these are government people too, and I'm very aware that when you touch it, we actually say one thing to people who do, hold on to themselves, they're very proud. It's a very strong lobby, and in the end, with actors, with theater people, it's not at all, not at all simple. They say even that the Soviet government there after the October Revolution didn't want to touch too much in the theater and in some way they had to leave what, which was actually working all along the Soviet authorities, which is that the theatre was also some exhausting, exhaust valve. So I would also suggest to the minister and the people who write, who write this law even though it wouldn't be bad to say what people are because of the public in some way that when we go, what a commentator says is whether it's an individual, a group of people or, or someone says in some collective body. I'm always afraid when you write a collective body and we're just seeing what people are so that it's easier to actually defend something and say something in the favorites of this law because this is exactly how you feel about having a war between a bureaucrat and an artist, and it seems to me like even bureaucrats aren't always right, we shouldn't be here to let ourselves, that I don't know if I don't know if we're actually a pretty benevolent and binco sign that actually artists are right and we're, and here I've actually had 15 years of experience, so I've seen how some times they've been, as these say taxpayers have spent money without actually getting adequate performances, and whenever you objected, you said it wasn't quite right then we said that you were touching into artistic freedoms. It's really two different things and I say it's very, very hard to find that one there, find that balance because you'll always have the impression of those who give it has a sense of giving a lot, and it gets a little. And he who receives that in some way should not accept it, or that it is, that it belongs to him and that it is not necessary for him to bear it, nor to render an account. I think we have plenty of time. The public is extremely sensitive and that's good. There were shows that spelled "Open" Mass and people said they talked about these very, very topics that bother them. We also need to understand a union that needs to be protected by definition. There's an actor here on the Web I read, not all Hamlets, not all of these Hede Geblers etc. There are also those people who also point out, who live who will never get a chance to play McBeth or play those big roles, but they also actually make that integral part of that theater world and life that is really self-recognizable and that I'm very happy to enjoy, even if I say it cost. But I can't have my private relationship somehow being dominant and actually forgetting these other things, that there must be responsibility everywhere and that it's very important that we personalize responsibility. I'm afraid that here in many places it's kind of depersonalized and I wanted to say, it seems to me not one way like this ad hoc react to the fact that one intensifier has made pretty big debts. So this moment, as a representative of the club, on behalf of the club right now I'm speaking, I'd like to take note of this law, actually thinking about what's going to happen until the second reading. And if you make these some not only interventions and remarks, suggestions that come from this club but... from the other and the very interested public, then, indeed, in the second reading, they could have one quality bill that could also receive a passing assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to take care of these exact nuances that many people mean a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50530	And that's where we'll be or have to remove it. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50531	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kramaric, certainly not in a bad way, said one very incorrect allegation, which is that choosing the indent, the quote is therefore, "It has always been a political act.". That's not true. Choosing an indent almost never was a political act, but to tell you, it has always been realized by some competition and to some extent. However, changing the agenda is a political act. And, in particular, changing the agenda is a political act if it happens before his term of office expires. Like that. Mr. Paule was an indent until the end of his term, and Mr. Tarbuk didn't. And in particular, it's a political act, which is also your second incorrect quote, which is that it's related to these terrible debts that should have been fixed. These debts are not even 50% of the debts spoken of, since they are blown up the second time, but they served as an alibi for this political act of changing the HNK's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50532	Thank you. With a small remark, you were correcting a very incorrect allegation. There's only an incorrect allegation, not a very incorrect allegation. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50533	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. Mr. Kramaric said he was confused, but knowing the opportunities at the theatre, I must admit he confused me, too. Now how do you set up here? There, perhaps it is best to quote several mayors of large Croatian cities, and then Mr. Milan Bandic literally says, "Controls never too much.". And now to quote him here, the mayor of Zagreb: "I support the system of supervision for all, pii for cultural institutions. Control is never too much. Business must be transparent. I look forward to amending the Law on Theatres, i.e. the fact that the institution of the business director, i.e. manager and art director, will finally be separated." ... That's what it says, Mr. Bandic, never too much control. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50534	A little later with Mr. Cain's ovations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50535	The mayor of the city of Rijeka says: "So if I always had an intent like Mrs. Mani Gotovina, I would say right away that I don't need a council right now. However, we had an intensifier who left behind large debts. In order to avoid such things, I believe that the council should exist. It will certainly not determine the programme or interfere with the professional part of the activities of the Institute.". Valter Trandić, means IDS: "Welcome financial supervision.", that's what he says. Pula Mayor: "I agree that the founder in the pulse case of the city must have a body that will control the operation of the Istrian National Theatre and the City Theatre of Pula. However, it is the Council that will play a role similar to those of such bodies in other institutions. The Governing Councils are very welcome to a higher level of financial supervision...", etc., etc. Now what the intensities say, means the people who come from the theater. Mani Gotac, an intensifier of HNK Ivan the noble Zajc in Rijeka says, from the above text, I mean the law, it is seen that the administrative council is not only, this is the argument of the Tum acontrario that the administrative council not only oversees the financial situation in theatres but also the administrative and direct interference in the management of them. In my opinion, the Theatre Law would have to provide the Founder with the possibility that the Indentant Director would be able to resolve his duties if he showed shortcomings in business. This does not mean, however, that 5 members of the board of directors and business directors appointed by political bodies may be involved in the activity, in particular of the art institutions, etc. Mrs. Aleksandra Saša Broz, director of the Istrian National Theatre, says the Pula City Theatre when the Theatre Law is passed is most important that the main word has a waist. Politicians and politicians should not decide such an important thing for us artists. Unfortunately, artists very rarely reach consensus and ultimately involve politics, etc., etc. Anna Lederer, ingenuities, Lederer, yes, councils are bigger than indents. Milan Strljić, more detailed in power. I don't know, the Chagall, the Osijek HNK, avoid the conflict of tensions, etc., etc. So here the question really is how to ask, how to find the measure, and then the question is also what it is out there, outside the Republic of Croatia. In Italy they work, so to speak, 13 theatres, state, national, large, what to call them. They have this "consillo di amdistration" who chooses the indent, and the president is always the mayor. So you're always a man from the city or let's call it politics. Austria has 14 national theatres that are financed from the state, or city. The headmaster always chooses the ministry. England is clear something else, it's politics, politics has definitely left a place for them, let's say, for example, for people of the profession, and that's kind of what I'm holding should be a Croatian role model. But in Croatia it is essential to secure money, and it is certain that people who work in a theatre without politics will not be able to do so in one word. So we're in the party absolutely for the maximum freedom of theater, but also the responsibility of the people at the theater. Especially when that financial sphere is a result. However, I would like to say once again that a measure must be found in all of this. Maybe at this point this law isn't ready for a second reading from a whole series of moments I'm going to talk about later, and maybe it's best to pull it out of the process. What is certainly one of the major absurdities in my court, one local self-government will in future have to finance de facto the work itself of these institutions, and the central government will manage them. It's one of the most rigid forms of this centralization against which not only should we rebel but should rise. One word IDS is to define these union requirements and I'm going to read now a part of what we got as a club. They say this is how they look at the bill. That the Croatian Union of Workers in Culture, and we know that recently 20.10, well a month ago, or not, organized at the Croatian National Theatre of Ivan the noble Zajca this meeting, in fact, on the proposal of the Law on Theatres sent to the Assembly procedure and they pointed out that this proposal shows interest in the institutions of the National Theatre being abolished with the exception of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. Clearly, one of these practices I believe for all of us in this House, if it stands, cannot be acceptable. The current national theatres are definitely becoming city theatres, and this ends every interest of the state. All other rules are defined as in other public or private theatres, and whether the minister will single them out in his criteria and standards in a special category simply no one knows. In particular, it is questionable to introduce an institute of the Governing Council with very high powers in the management and management of theatres which may prevent the implementation of an approved programme of intensities. The position of theatre employees as foreseen by the law is largely left to founders, indemnities, directors through the regulation of their working position and status and other acts of establishment according to the assessment of union members leads them to a far more unfavourable position than is now. In one word, I hold that one of these especially when the financial burden is due, little that the city will not endure, they will endure, however, that this is one new blow to some other standards that our cities must meet. This Regulation shall enter into The final proposal of the Law on Theatres referred to in the Parliament procedure of national theatres is mentioned in only four articles: 17, 18, 32, 37. In addition to the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, which is very detailedly regulated in the law, there are three national theatres, including the Croatian National Theatre Ivan the noble Zajc, which in Split, or Osijek, have national status only on paper. That's what must surely be rebelled against. With this proposal of the Law on Theatres, national theatres lost the latest feature of national status, the appointment of the intensitaries no longer confirms its decision by the culture minister. At the same time, all financial burdens, meaning from salaries to funding for programmes and maintenance, are borne by the owner of the national theatre, which are in the case of national theatres in Rijeka, Split, Osijek, the towns of Rijeka, and Split, and in the case of HNK in Osijek, is the town of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. As regards the financing of national theatres, the proposal of the Law on Theatres no longer provides for a provision on the obligations and percentages of the financing of theatres from county funds such as the situation so far. However, when the counties are also held that it is not even under quotes such a bad solution, because our counties are like beggars, they actually make annual budgets at a level of 100 thousand, from 100 million to 300 million kuna, and now the question is what our counties with these amounts can actually do about a more coherent development of their space. However, national theatres must be provided with uniform funding by law, and all national theatre workers would certainly have to be paid in the state budget. The Administrative Council, meaning the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture since 95, has introduced the Institute of the Administrative Council of National Theatres, and amendments to the Law on Theatres of 97 have been abolished by administrative councils in national theatres. The proposal for a new Law on Theatres directly reintroduces the administrative councils with very large powers. The powers of the Governing Council are laid down in Article 21 of the Law on Theatres under which the Council actually manages and manages the national theatre. The administrative boards are referred to in Article 20, and in all articles relating to the selection and appointment of individuals, business directors, assistant indentators and directors of public theatres. Although the law states in Article 20 that members of the Governing Council are appointed from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers, it may be justified to expect that members of the Governing Council will actually be a political body in the middle of the theatre, and its members are similar to those of the 1995 Administrative Councils, but then the Law on Theatres did not directly introduce them into theatres but rather a special law, the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture. The establishment of administrative councils reduces the role of intensifiers and business directors whose roles are particularly and especially their powers of this law are fully cataractly regulated and whose practical implementation will be questionable. The function then intensities of this law are reduced to the artistic head of the national theatre. So, the intensitant is insolent to a simple workplace that a few years ago had and a river theater. In fact, only the artistic director was regulated in Article 22 of the Law on Theatres. The choice, and the powers and work of the Institute are regulated by Articles 22, 23, 25 to 31 of this Act. From the present perspective, this kind of arrangement of the function of the Incident is another form of reduction of national theatre status. As far as working relations are concerned, the current Law on Theatres in a certain and very clumsy way regulates part of the matter of working relationship concerning primarily theatre artists, soloists and collective art bodies, but the new proposal of the Law on Theatres has made work relations quite complicated by introducing a contract of work indefinitely. Articles 40 to 46 regulate the matter of working relations in the new Law on Theatres. In itself, this fact would not be so important that the current law on such cases is based on a working relationship indefinitely, for certain theatre artists does not provide for certain years of internship as a basis for the possible conclusion of a working relationship on indefinite times but only after the fulfilment of certain conditions of employment. Of course we don't mind, say, these artistic engagements, like Severine and her like. As for the end of the entry into force of this law, the law provides for the entry into force of the date 1.1.2006 in its final provisions, which will say that within several weeks to 15.12., a second reading should be carried out, which is certainly impossible. It is also foreseen that by the end of February 2006, all acts of theatres will be brought into line with the provisions of the new law, and then, within a further period of 4 months, the management and management of theatres with the new law, which means the selection of individuals and business directors in national theatres and the establishment of administrative councils. This means that all theatres in a month's time, meaning January to the end of June, so in the middle of the theatre season instead of theatre activities, will deal with compliance with the provisions of this new Law. For the end, let me just conclude one more time. The IDS Club is simply dedicated to these union requirements that I had the opportunity to present. And I believe at this point there might be the mostportunal withdrawal of the bill from the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50536	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Majska-Martinčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50537	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd say Mr. Cain's entire discussion was one big false allegation. In fact, 2/3 of this discussion did not apply to our subject, our subject and our matter at all, but Mr. Cain quoted the "Vjesnik" as saying from the 8th of this month. So it wasn't the club's opinion. And what's really hurting us all all all all the time is this famous article 18. Mr Cain said that national theatres are losing their national status under the new bill. That's not true. Article 18 says: "National theatres are the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, Croatian National Theatre Split, Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, Croatian National Theatre "Ivan of the Noble Zajec Rijeka". So, if the sentence of article 18 says so, I don't know where you read that national theatres lose their national designation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50538	Measure for measure. HNS club, respected representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50539	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law was passed 5 years ago and it's probably time to review some of the relationships in that entire segment. But I'm afraid that this proposal, apart from fulfilling that ambition, brings nothing else that would suggest that the issues in this very important segment will be settled, regulated in a better way than they have been so far. I'm sure it's not easy to find the right formula, the right measure. Here we are not very skilled at looking for these happy solutions, compromises between artistic independence and of course the management responsibility of theatres, cultural institutions, because it is really specific institutions. But I think this law goes too far in one direction. So, if this was one extreme, and I'm not saying it, I guess that's what the legislators say, then this is definitely going in the other direction, and then it's happening again to us to get back to the starting position and so we're constantly cycled, we're oscillating between the two ultimate solutions without the ability to try to find some optimal position to solve these objectively complicated relationships. What this Law certainly needs to be immediately objected to is absolutely unclear which concept it advocates, or why it advocates. It is clear, therefore, that it is going towards a stronger political influence on cultural institutions, but why this seems and why it is much better than the existing solution, this Law does not give any answers. These are really the right phrases of a guy that the law will introduce a more modern theatre system, it absolutely means nothing unless it explains what this means more modern. What does that mean on Croatian occasions? That there will be an improved organization. Of course, any law can claim to be his ambition, but there are no reasons to suggest what this is so bad about the current solution in the Republic of Croatia and what this law would bring new ones. So it's, therefore, no concept at all, no reason for concept. Something the minister said in his opening statement. It was mainly said that theatres were wasteful, but there were not really any concepts that would answer these questions about whether there would be excessive political interference in artistic affairs and what consequences this would actually have on the content of the work of the theatre, or what is called artistic production. The minister didn't say a word about it, and that's very important. That's the point of it. Whether this artistic production will be better, better quality or worse after this. Whether the conflicts that exist in that drive as they exist everywhere will be stronger and how these conflicts will be resolved. Will the consequences, then, be raising the quality of that job? That's what the minister didn't say, the law itself doesn't speak a single word, and that would be the order. Otherwise, the reasoning of this Law and a series of our laws are actually offensive. You often do not have a single word in your reasonings, the idea of why an article is being solved just as most often in the explanation of the articles, the promoters convince you of the content of the article. Well, I guess we ourselves know who reads those laws in the article. So here's an example. I'll take article 30, but that's the general way of writing our laws. That's really embarrassing, offensive to the MPs. He writes Article 30, director of business, assistant director, director and assistant director of the public theatre and public theatre family during the term of office can perform artistic activities and perform theatre tasks outside his theatre, or theatre family, with the previous written consent of the board of directors, and the above stands to prevent conflicts of interest. And the reasoning of Article 30, in fact, only overwrites that same article of the Law instead of telling us what the intensity, which is the philosophy, which is the concept, which are difficulties, tells us something more about it. And unfortunately, that's all our laws. You, from these arguments, absolutely nothing more can be learned except from the very text of the Law. Honoring exceptions, this law is no exception. Thus writes the explanation "adjusts the prevention of conflicts of interest in such a way as to indentate, business director, etc.". And it's not just this article, but all the articles of this Law are explained in that way. Thus, it is absolutely not possible to conclude what is at stake, what are the difficulties, what is motivation, and what may be the positive consequences. Otherwise, the minister said there was a public debate. There were some contacts, but actually there was no real communication. Real communications that would open up the problem and that two sides, if we could call them that, would lead to some kind of relationship of discussion, looking for a solution, there was no such thing. There were confrontations where every country was its own side, and they weren't enough. Thus, that fact itself suggests that it is not good for us to go to such a social atmosphere with this Law. This is a very important area. It's done, if you're just going with numbers, somewhere around 2,000 employees. It states in Article 2 that theatres are of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. It's big money that stands out for it, and it really should be a little more serious about writing one of these laws, and not just like this, so we should figure out one solution without a reason. And then it's no wonder this law is called the Tarbuk Law. A colleague, Kramaric, said it was about the director who left behind the debts. It was the director, i.e. the indentator of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb and was then called the Tarbukov Law by the Colloquial Art Circles, as a kind of punishment of theatre, or artistic profession by politics. And in that atmosphere, actually, no serious communication happened. Therefore, I think it is bad to enter this important area in such a way. And now something about concrete solutions to this law. The Administrative Council is being introduced. The Administrative Council may have its own meaning, of course, but there must be some relationship between the Governing Council and the very artistic drive of the theatre. It can't be the Administrative Council that will only be an extended arm of the Founder, which means politics. In this Governing Council, according to this policy solution, the representative body, i.e. the Ministry of Culture for National Theatres, has a majority and determines which policy it will be. Last night, in the city of Zagreb, a political majority elected director of the Zagreb Philharmonic Philharmonic, which is also a national art house based on the mere will of the founder of the City of Zagreb, which means the parliamentary majority to which one part of the opposition joined. All the artistic instances, employees, the Council of Music at the City Education Office were against it, but the political will was to make it exactly the way it was. Therefore, the Administrative Council may be an instrument of political will as demonstrated last night, and this also opens up this possibility here, and should be much more precise, if this body is already in place to determine what its powers are and what is the relationship of that body to internal relations in the theatre itself. There's no talking here about having an impact on the choice of indents and directors, and I'm going to say a little bit more about what it means, have employees. They're not even mentioned here as some kind of counselling... The question is of course how can this work in such a way and whether production will be better if, with the outside political will of the founders, whether it is a state, whether it is a local self-government, or a regional self-government, imposing leadership on theatres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the director is concerned, it is absolutely unclear what kind of mutual relations will be, i.e. it is clear that there is a conflict here between the intensifier and the director of the theatre. It is absolutely impossible that in such a solution, and this is very grossly mentioned here in Article 22, and it did not clearly distinguish matters as the minister says, it cannot be clear, these are the two paragraphs of Article 22, it is absolutely in this relationship that the conflict between the intendant and the director is intrinsically incorporated, and so cannot and should not be. If you need to be of course a man who follows the business dimension of the function of the theatre it can then be an assistant to business policy as the indent has assistants for the other segments of specific artistic action, but put them on the same level as the director has jurisdiction over the control of legality, and he can of course extensively interpret it. This actually means installing elements of a permanent conflict in the management of the theatre, and then it will also create difficulties for the founders. It will be necessary to rule in these conflicts which will certainly take place, thereby opening unnecessary political difficulties and, of course, testifying on how politics must necessarily interfere in relations within the theatre, instead of trying to allow them to function independently and install some control mechanisms primarily for orderly and responsible financial operations. Therefore, it is absolutely not a solution that should be supported. Some other solutions that are mentioned here in terms of conflict of interest, of course, that it would be good to regulate it, I'm not sure that this is the best solution, that a contract is being concluded between a theater and a house where an employee wants to have an additional theatre engagement, I think it's too strict, it would seem to make it impossible for me to have any freedom, those who are employed, but of course there is what the minister said it would be, if there was full freedom of unfair competition for free artists. That's also true. So this solution is on track for a solution because it can indeed be a conflict of interest, but I think this formulation is too strict and should not remain in the bill. And finally, in conclusion, one more observation of practical nature. The appointment of intensifiers and business directors, director at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, is in charge of central authorities, the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia, and the City of Zagreb with half the funds is co-financed annually by the work of the Croatian National Theatre with 40 million kunas of these years, so this year, it would be logical to determine the management of the artistic and organisational Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb and the Zagreb City Assembly, the representative body or the headship in some way also has its own influence. So the law tries to find some solutions generally speaking, but did not answer the questions why solutions should be found and especially did not answer the question of what will be the consequences of these offered solutions. The result may be much worse than what the existing situation seems to me and therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, I suggest that this be a previous reading of the Law, to try to open not only a debate in some formal sense, but rather a serious attempt to find a solution to the public of the policy of artists and then perhaps in a much better atmosphere when this one communication is achieved, and not until now, it has been tried to propose the first reading of this Law. Therefore, if the bill remains in the first reading, we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50540	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not going to be formal, I'm going to be very specific. It is entirely guilty, incorrectly alleged that this bill was invented because of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, i.e. that in the towers it is called "Tarbukov's Law", because if you knew a little better Mr. Radoš situation on the ground then you would know that 50% of the public theatres in Croatia ended up operating with a loss. It is not just the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, it is the top of the hill. The biggest theatre, the biggest intensifier and the biggest losses, but the situation on the ground is almost identical. Secondly, when you said you knew there was no communication, two-way communications in the preparation of this bill, that's also not true. Here I am a witness, and even my colleague, Selem, we've been sitting, don't hold my word, but at least 15 meetings with a very wide selection of people from the theater, private, public, national, whatever you want. The fact is that theater people are who they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50542	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50543	And that they can't make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50544	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50545	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, representatives of the government. So the Croatian legislative tradition in the theatre dates back to 1861, means when it dates to both HSP and that fact already speaks for itself enough. But don't make me black today. Well, that's true. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It says here. Therefore, it is evident that in 1861 it was important for Croatia and Croatia's future, but I think we should now devote ourselves to why we are here so that this law does not now look at the black and white film. Let's try to realistically see what the problems are and how to solve them. So, I think the motto should be not to be touched by artistic freedoms or tolerate financial freedoms. That's the problem now. Artistic freedoms must not be touched, but unfortunately we have many examples of tolerance and financial freedoms because we did not have adequate mechanisms to solve and how. So I think the whole debate should now be directed in this direction so that there are other readings to come up with appropriate solutions. Normally, given all these cases that we've had, we have to take into account these facts about how many theatres have shown losses in the past year, how much they show up in this year. But again, we need to be clear, we need to be aware that this relationship of arrangements that is now set will not give the right solutions because it can be rightly said to touch artistic freedoms and it is right to say that politics enters the theatre more and more. And that's what they're objectively looking at now, because it's hard to set up this relationship mostly between the intensifiers and the directors. That's a pretty tough situation. The director is responsible for the business part of everything else and this one is responsible for the artistic part. Therefore, the applicant will only be able to do what this person approves of the money and, as he approves of the money, will not be able to have any performances if there is no possibility. Normally, they will not perform an opera unless they are able to hire people who can do this opera, they will not hire an amateur group, such as the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, or in Rijeka, or Split. So, in all these situations, you have to find these variations, but I don't think these are very well affected because they're, they're being introduced for these other ones. But the first thing that's our general point of view is to appoint individuals whether it's a national theatre, whether it's a public theater. Let's go to the invitation competition, give everyone equal conditions. Let's say what we're looking for in this invitation contest, so both software and other parts. And then let's first of all make sure that she determines who's gonna be that ingenuity. And that part of the profession, meaning the point of view of the profession can be verified by anyone, either by a representative body or by a board of directors, does not matter at all, or by the Government on a proposal. We think that this would set a good example for all other situations. And then we'll get concrete things and set up tender conditions and programs so that we can get out of this. But I'm saying, I'm having this relationship as it's set up for a particularly public purpose because there's no such administrative council in HNK, it's not well laid out. That should be realistic, you should say, not good solutions. Perhaps better solutions are to ensure that this financial part is provided as some commission or administrative council that will be monitored every three months and then by law correctly solved if the intent or director has violated that part that will normally be resolved by law or other means. But this relationship when the Board of Directors, the Indentator, is a rather complex situation, and then there will always be two, three sides, and it will be more media monitoring, or we will not be dealing with what we should be dealing with, means that the theatre is doing business, that the theatre is doing business in a way that needs and the very importance of the theatre I don't think is necessary to explain. So, we say we keep this part necessary, so I repeat, you must not touch art freedoms or tolerate financial freedoms. And therefore, I think that for another reading one more time we should do an additional debate and find the right solutions because these cause a lot of controversy. I think that in this sense we should not have party warfare and have recommendations because we all have an interest in having a theatre at the will of Croatian citizens and we have responsible persons who treat this theater that will not create financial debts but who will behave as much and how they can treat the resources that are given them. And that I think should be our contribution, not that we have black and white again you're this, you're what's left of the theatre's problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50546	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Ministers with Associates! The SDP club does not support the Law on Theatres, even in this first reading. And what we are proposing is that this debate should be seen as a previous debate. We believe that the proposed law has no idea or concept, so it cannot be improved or improved. The best thing to do is to withdraw this proposal because it will be the least damaging both for the theatre activity in Croatia and for the proposer himself. Here's the argument for such a resolute attitude. First, the question arises in principle whether the theatre activity requires a special law at all. And since there's already a need to change it. Many countries do not have a special Law on Theatres at all, but they have excellent theatres. We have the law and now we're changing it without anyone knowing for what purpose and for what purpose. The proposed law does not fix itself, but none of what the amendments to the law may need to be corrected, but so what is in the existing law and theatre practice is completely unnecessaryly damaged. We find that irresponsible. If something was wrong with the law, it could be proposed to amend and supplement the law so that it could be clearly seen what is changing and what is the purpose of this change. And if not, it's irresponsible to engage in an experiment like this that nobody knows where it's going to lead us and what damage it can do in theaters. It's a basic remark. Administrative councils are being introduced into the theatres. And they are now clearly said in the law that they run the theater. In theatres that are the founder of the city or county, there is certainly a director who is said to be running the theatre. The municipal theatres, however, may also have an intensities if their founder, commune, city or county decides so. If they have it, he's the head of the theater by the provisions of this law. Now, one is in charge, one is in charge, one is in the lead and one is in the lead. Asking the Proposer to explain the lexical and Semantic difference between verbs to manage, manage and guide, we believe that it makes no sense because the Proposer simply cannot explain it because it is inexplicable. This is also proof of our claim that when this bill was drawn up, there was absolutely no idea what the law really wanted. And a little more on the administrative councils in city and county theaters. It's hard to imagine what the promoter meant when he said that these administrative councils would run theatres. Because let's ask ourselves here now all together how it's going to be five people running a theater once a month or once in three months. The theater is a living organism. There's shows every night, audiences come, tickets are sold, rehearsals are held in the morning. Every day, a series of decisions are to be made which are the basic characteristics of governance, and there is no manager in the theatre. They meet every three months. However, in explaining this legislative proposal on the parent committee, the promoter says that the board of directors would not actually manage how the law states but just oversee the work of the manager or director. So, watch out now, the administrative councils are called administrative because they don't manage, they monitor, and that's why they're not called supervisory. Really beautiful logic and quite clear. Come on, well, let's consider and monitor and see if the administrative council is also needed as a supervisory body? You see in every city that's the founder of some theater there's a body of administration. It's some kind of city culture office with its head, a bunch of its clerks. This office shall grant to each director the funds for the material costs and the declared programme and that office shall be subject to control: First, whether the programme is fulfilled as reported and secondly, as spent money. At any time, the staff of that office may be subject to control under the law of supervision and, if they establish any undue deviation from the notified programme or undue overrun of the approved budget, the Office may propose to the Assembly of the City the transfer of such an equaliser. The Founder may, whenever this occurs to him, send an audit to any of his institutions and, of course, also to the theatre and thus carry out quality control of financial operations in a far better way than the members of the Governing Council who do not have a profession. Here are a few more incomprehensible illogicalities passed by this bill without ambition to count them all. The Director shall be appointed to 4 years on the basis of a proposed programme which must be accompanied by a financial and personnel plan necessary for the achievement of the programme. It's okay. And now the principal's elected. They pick the principal. The founder accepted his election act: First, his programme plan, his financial plan, which he had to propose, and his personnel plan, which means the people with whom he was going to do it. But the director can't implement his staff plan, which was accepted by the founder, because that's what protects him from this law that authorized him to implement it. It's an incredible illogicality. How? The law states that the Director may propose to the Board of Directors the appointment of assistants and then the Administrative Council of the Assistant will choose. How? I'm based on a public tender. So the director decided to be his assistant as early as his candidacy, and at that stage, reporting for the founder's competition, he said: If you decide for me as director, you accept my program, you accept the persons with whom I am obliged to implement the programme. And the founder agreed. And chose him as director. He named him the principal. Now that he's got to do it, there's this board of directors out there, saying, "That's not how it's gonna work, but we're gonna pick your assistant in a public competition." They choose his assistant with whom he can neither do nor want to achieve his program. And to conclude with these unfortunate administrative councils. No use from them. They're just a cover of politics for that occasion when a principal wants to replace someone without clear criteria and justifiable reasons. The decision of the Governing Council then becomes a fig leaf covering the nakedness of political self-will. And I repeat politics with or without administrative councils as a representative of the founders has both the right and the ability to appoint and resolve directors, to control their work only because without administrative councils they will do it more efficiently and more effectively. But then it won't be possible for politics to say, "Well, I didn't replace him." He was replaced by the administrative council. That's what she suggested to me. That's not gonna happen. But the founder will have to take responsibility, come to his town hall and say clearly and loudly why is he replacing the principal? And in that sense, the introduction of such administrative councils by the Minister of Politics. Politics is now setting up and replacing directors, and it's normal who's going to set them up as the founder? Who else? Well, they won't set themselves up. But now he's doing it in a transparent way at least for a little bit. And this situation, which is clear, pure as tears, seeks to cloud and cloud. The laws have this ambition to prevent conflict of interest. But it doesn't work in that intention either. First of all, the law allows applicants and directors to act in art outside the theatre with the previous consent of the Governing Council. Look, first of all, if someone acts artisticly outside his house, he can't successfully run that house he has to run. Why? Because he's gone. Physically, he's gone. And that doesn't make him one day. He's been gone for months. If he's a director, it takes two months to make a play. If the conductor's the same as setting up an opera somewhere. That he goes outside his home to act artisticly at the invitation of his fellow directors to whom he then repays himself in such a way that he invites them to his home to act in art that I won't even say it. This is what everyone who has any contact with the theatre knows is a common practice in Croatian theatres. And to be interrupted. Which may need to be put to rest. But not like this because it doesn't end. So watch if any artist really has an ambition to act as an intensifier or director he would for, during his intendatur or directorship have to absorb from his work of art that would physically separate him from his home. And the artistic activity within the house must be stated in the application itself for indentature. So in that proposal, the programme is based on which the candidate expects a designation. He tells his founder, "You've called the competition, I'm an artist." I'm reporting for the competition. I want to be an intensifier, and I want to make five directors in that program. And then the founder says whether he accepts it or not? And when he accepts, then he can make 5 directors but not 10. Don't overdo it. Because only then is the relationship between an artist who is also an ingenuity and a founder pure. He's based on the appointment application and he's, he's justified in the appointment decision. But not only does this law prevent this potential conflict of interest, but it directs it to conflict of interest and even legalizes it. Here's how. Some members of the imaginary board of directors have been elected from the ranks of the art staff of the house. That's what the law says. Such members are therefore in direct law to a certain conflict of interest. They decide on the proposed programme, they decide on the executioners of the programme because they choose the director of its assistants in a public tender. They decide on the director himself. And now, if the proposed programme does not respond personally to them because they are not seen as artists or if the director of the director is insufficiently involved in giving them specific roles or if the director is also the director and the expected roles are not given to them, then they will use their position in the board of directors for the decision on the fate of the director. And in order to avoid such a bad fate he will, he will, precisely because he is members of the board of directors, seek to secure a better artistic position in the theatre. The law therefore does not prevent conflict of interest. He encourages him, he legalizes him. There is no such thing in theatres now because there are no administrative councils and there are no art ensemble members in these administrative councils. There isn't. That thing's getting worse. Nothing's solved, it's broken. It's hard to come up with such a bad legal proposal, which is what the Proposer thought at all. But let's be blessed so let's try to assume that by composing this law, the proposer tried primarily to resolve the issue of the Croatian National Theatre because it is perhaps the biggest problem because of the large financial resources, because of the massiveness of the house. And then there's this awkwardness in the same legal stuff, and there's other public theaters, and there's a bunch of everything and everything that doesn't work out with each other. Look, you could have done something different, logical, more systematic, to see a huge difference in the work and financing of the Croatian National Theatre and all other theatre houses to understand that one of the possible solutions is, for example, one of the possible solutions. write down a special HNK Act. As we have a special law on Croatian broadcasting. Well, I don't know how many radios and televisions have different founders, different concessions, from municipal to national. But there is only one Croatian broadcasting which is a public institution and acts in the national interest. Therefore, it must also be the HNK and it deserves a special law. And then you wouldn't get those solutions under this Law of Theatres that regulate the question, or the action of questions of city and county theatres. It may be only the HNK's administrative council makes sense, but then the Minister of Culture sits in it, but I don't know if the head of the office is in charge of culture. You know why? Because the City of Zagreb is financing this theater with 49%, 49 million kuna, and there is no authority over it. What's that? Is he in? Who's calling the indent? Minister at the Government's proposal. Who's asking Zagreb? Who's asking him? Therefore, it would be arranged. Look, because they're property relations, they can be arranged. But it's a very special law to write about. At the very end, as a conclusion. The bill rejects both the profession and the policy theatre, a policy-oriented theatre. Take care of it. He's impossible to fix because unfortunately he's too bad. The proposer would be wisest to withdraw him from the procedure in his own interest. If there is a vote, the SPD won't be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50548	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50549	There's little time to respond to numerous inaccuracies. I'll just say one thing. It's incorrect that we don't need the law. It is precisely the kind of modern law that regulates the nomotechnically very precise and determined Law on Theatres. Why the law? Because the founder is among the other states that finance him mostly. Of course, there are also relationships about work, a collective contract that should also be specified and mentioned in this law is an excellent thing. The law did not need 1611 when the first theatre in Europe was in the town of Hvar, as it was financed by the town of Hvar with its 1331 statute. It's incorrect that this law doesn't change anything. Among other things, intensities, business directors, which gives this law an excellent approach and should be supported and should continue to go into the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50550	Second correction, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50551	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is incorrect that this bill does not support the profession. Sir, we were sitting together on the board earlier, so I don't know, you didn't see the waist. I did, they were representatives of the acting profession, the director's profession, representatives of the community of independent artists, representatives of the union. I didn't realize the waist was against it. As I didn't realize, the profession was contrary but a lot of meetings at the Ministry of Culture. Secondly, I'm not sure, and I think it's incorrect when you say that the administrative council will do more harm than good. I warn you that the administrative council, only in their own languages, is called a little different, has a New York Metropolitan and Vienna State Opera and a Berlin German Opera and the Milan Rock, all those who share money have their own people in the administrative councils, because they want to know how these money is spent. And in the way you presented it, I must say virtually, I admire how you speak, and I would like to know, too, just by the opposite sign, that's how we politicized these councils. Otherwise she's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50552	Thank you. Third correction, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50553	Thank you, Mr. President. On the very trail of what my colleagues said in front of me, I would say that it is incorrect to say that there is no idea how the administrative council will manage, that there is no benefit from them, when Article 21 is accurate and accurate in 8 steps, what it will do and how it will work. Therefore, it will confirm the work programme, control the programme, adopt programming and financial reports, decide on the financial plan and the annual accounting, adopt statutes and general acts, propose changes in the organisation, give different opinions on certain issues, and ultimately, all those jobs that are not listed in these 7 points will be carried out in accordance with the law, the instrument of establishment and the statute of that administrative council. So, very clearly and explicitly, the law envisioned the work of the administrative and part-round work of the boards of directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50554	Thank you. Next correction, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50555	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ivanca just took everything I was going to say. I'd just add it, correct what I thought I'd fix. I'd just add to that, so if it weren't true, and I'd bow to this if it were to damage those administrative councils. Otherwise, if it were like Mr. Stazic said, without supervision, without administration, management and control then only comedy would be seen in these theatres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50556	And last correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50557	Thank you, Mr. President. At least two, three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, counterpart Stazic said this law fosters conflict of interest. That fellow Stazic is not simply true. This law does not encourage a conflict of interest. Sir... Tomorrow we'll look back on it for a little while. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, says counterpart Stazic, this law does not have an idea concept. He has a fellow Stazić this law and idea and concept only needs to know and understand what is read in him. And thirdly, the profession says colleague Stazic, the profession does not mimic. Incorrectly, the representatives of the profession are with us and you, sitting in a meeting and none of them said they did not imitate this bill. True, there are various suggestions to improve this bill, and that is why it is in the first reading, and it will certainly improve to the final version. But no one in the profession said that it was against this law, at least not those representatives who were sitting with us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50558	Thank you. At 18 and 30, the debate over 10 minutes on this subject expired. And we still have time to argue. On behalf of the club Independent Representatives, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50559	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, as the proposal states, theatre activity, as an activity of special interest for the Republic of Croatia has its own long, legislative legal tradition. Here we have heard from this pay phone since 1861 and the first Law on Theatres adopted in the Republic of Croatia as an independent state in '91. the year defines theatre activity as part of cultural artistic folk values. Specific problems of theatre activity in the implementation of the current law certainly much more than I do know theatre workers, artists, persons who are professionally or otherwise related to the theatre. For this reason, there would be only one important part of the debate, and I see it as an important part of the bill that prescribes the structure and management of theatres, or theatre families. I think, and also on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, that the proposal is to introduce a board of directors whose members are appointed from the ranks of prominent artists and workers in cultural and artistic staff of the theatre that he is good. But I also don't think it would be a good final legal solution for the board to manage the theatre and, in fact, take part in the powers and responsibilities of the Institute. If possible, and there is a possible confusion because one part of the bill says that the administrative council is governed by one other provision of the law to oversee the administrative council. In any case, I don't think this decree that the board of directors of the theater is good. According to the draft law, the governing hierarchy in national theatres was set up in a way that at the top of the governing pyramid was actually the administrative council. He is followed by a business director who organises and runs the business of the national theatre and national theatre ensemble, runs business policy and is responsible for the legality of work. The proposal for a law in large part abolishes the current powers and still valid powers and responsibilities of the intensifier and marginalises its meaning in a manageable sense. According to this proposal, it remains for him to organise and implement an art programme as an artistic manager and is solely responsible for this art programme. On the other hand, the main activity of the theatre is the art programme, the quality of the art programme, the entire organisation and the business of the national theatre, which is possible for the higher level of quality of this particular art programme. Without a good business policy, there is no quality art program. The person responsible for the continuous quality of the art program can only provide the same quality with well-designed organisation and business policy that guarantees quality both theatre and quality performance. I am afraid that the proposed disseminating powers and responsibilities in which the business director organises and manages business and business policy, and the applicant organises and implements an art programme, that such definitions and such specifics significantly slow down and limit the ideas and ideas of the artist himself, and thus the achievement of the artistic programme. I believe that it's not really the proposal's intention, but let me think about it in a way that's exactly what's going to happen. So one double handling if you let me even triple, given that there are certain powers and responsibilities involved in the administrative council. The proposed legislative provision of Article 21 of which the Administrative Council considers and adopts the programme and financial report of the Institute is unclear and illogical. I repeat the Financial Report of the Indentator in Article 21 although it is said that the artist's indent is the artistic director who organises and implements the art programme and is responsible for it. Therefore, if explicitly the legal provision is laid down, which is what the applicant is responsible for, and is responsible for the art programme, then I see no reason why the administrative council would consider and adopt the financial report of the applicant programmingly, yes, but the financial report I think is deplaced to discuss if it comes from indents. Finally, according to the proposal of this law, the applicant is neither responsible nor responsible in one small part for financial operations, but the principal responsibility for financial operations is borne by the Director of the National Theatre. Article 32 of the Law provides for a situation where the intensifier and the business director may be removed, i.e. better said, legally resolved before the end of the term of office, of course for which he is appointed. This happens in the event that the founder does not accept the programme report, i.e. the financial report. I agree that in the event of not accepting the report, the Institute and the Director may be resolved, even if they need to be resolved, but given the proposed powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors in the management of the theatre, I am convinced that in this and this concept of the Bills and members of the Board of Directors should be resolved in that case, because their great responsibility in the financial business of the theatre, i.e. in this part of the Art Programme. By the way, nothing in this bill is said about the possible financing of the remaining three national theatres in Croatia, so the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, Split and Osijek. I think it would be necessary for these national theatres to be of interest not only to the local environment that they are crossing the interests of the local environment and by their quality and performance of the art programme, that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia as it is said in the definition itself, and then, in accordance with the following, I think that the competent ministry should take over one part of the funding of national theatres, so not only the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb but also the Croatian National Theatre in Rijeka, Split and Osijek. Here and finally, I believe that until the final proposal of the Law on Theatres will consider the comments and proposals made, but in any case, the Independent Representatives Club holds that double management, so we could also show the three-way management of the national theatre in which the applicant would be responsible only for the art programme, and the business director for business, business policy and organisation is not a good solution, so moreover, what is prescribed by the individual provisions of the bill that the administrative council in one part manages the theatre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50560	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50561	You see, a colleague is not only a double or triple management in national theatres, but such double or triple management under this bill is foreseen in all theatres other than private ones. So in all public theatres and in those where the founder is the city or the Republic. That double or triple management means powerlessness. There's no idea who's responsible for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50562	And what you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50563	That triple management is introduced only in national theatres. It is introduced in all theatres and in all these theatres not only national, it will mean total powerlessness, the complete collapse of a system in which the theatres cannot be led. It won't be possible to lead, and it'll be a huge, inconspicuous damage to the whole theater life and who's going to fix it, the new law, so while it's being implemented, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50564	I listened very carefully, but in the presentation of your predecessor, there was a question of double or triple governance, leadership and leadership, not only at a certain theatre, but at only one concept at all. You actually agreed with the speaker, not correcting his incorrect allegations, so in that direction you hurt the Rules of Procedure a little bit. Here you are, dear representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50565	Yes, in this direction, Col. Stazic injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 214. Although I agree with this claim that about double-management, but I was saying that and I mentioned it about national theatres and when I was talking about double-management, I also talked about the national theatre and I also said that it refers to the national theatre. Therefore, I believe that my colleague Stazic did not correct the incorrect assumption and that he was injuring the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50566	It's in shades. Tomorrow we'll continue with two more clubs. In the 9th and 30th HDZ club, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic and the HSS club, respected representative Ante Markov and then discussed with 14 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We continue with the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Theatres. Please, dear representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50568	Your Honor, Mr. President. At the Croatian Party of Rights Club, I demand the urgent demonstration of the competent ministers on the occasion of the shocking news that in front of our public eyes, media is also preparing for the organised eviction of Croats to Australia. Namely, Australian citizen Trevor Hans... who lives in our country without a work permit and with great publicity, positive and negative, recruits citizens to move to Australia by promising them hills and valleys, arguing that he has even the support of allegedly Croatian diplomacy as he claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In just three days, according to the data we have, he's been informed of the eviction of over 6,000 of our citizens. The fact itself would be enough for an alert because it points to the shocking fact that thousands of citizens want to flee Croatia, above all from Dalmatia as at a time of great eviction due to the disease of the vine at the beginning of the last century. However, we are looking for an urgent indication that both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the possible exorcision of these and similar types from our country, but also the responsibility of all those who should act, not others. I am obliged to say that we have received these news from our patriots, above all from Mr. Marijan Bosnjak, and it is symptomatic that even the police administration in Split said that he works legally, and we know that he has no work permit or anything. So this isn't, this is a pretty serious thing and a situation, and I think we need to get real information, not to speculate and that what's going on is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50569	We'll request information from the government. HDZ representative club, respected representative Jagoda Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50570	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Theatres in First Reading, the Law for 3 years. It is a law that includes matter, I would say special, special by definition because it must cover so many diverse and different elements that it seems almost impossible to reconcile to the eye everything that could be good, useful and positive for the theatre in all its forms and visions, National Theatre, City Theatre, Children's Theatre, Private Theatre. Much is gathered in matter, and of course it took a very long time to shape this Proposal for the Law on Theatres. I say it worked for 3 years and in a public debate over this Law were included absolutely all segments necessary for the Law to adopt what theatre workers and theatres as such are required. I purposely point out that because in the past few days, and mostly yesterday, we heard what was fundamentally not supposed to happen, which is that in the work on this draft of the Law, the profession was not consulted. That's not true. Over 40 public stands were held with theatre staff organised by the Croatian Association of Drama Artists as well as around 20 meetings at the Ministry of Culture which also attended and participated with their proposals theatre employees of all profiles. And before I say a few words about some of the alleged controversial elements of this bill, I will read 10 proposals adopted by the debates that preceded the adoption of the bill, which, here I will show you, can be seen and read on the website of the Croatian Society of Drama Artists. It's an eclectic proof that the profession took part in the bill's proposal. Those 10 dots are next. The founder shall provide funding for the operation of the theatre for the next four-year period. Standardisation of the number of prime headlines and reruns over a four-year period in accordance with the appropriations. The artistic director, as the holder and promoter of the programme, shall be able to identify the staff and financial situation of the theatre, the introduction of a business director, the involvement of an artist at a specified time per project or programme, the prevention of conflicts of interest in engagement at the second theatre of the artist, shall refer a written request to the applicant director who may approve or not approve that request. All art jobs are re-elected with the possibility of extension of the contract. Artists are engaged in competition and auditioning. The introduction of administrative councils, members of the administrative councils are also artists from the theatre. The provision that art organisations can only establish independent artists while artists engaged for a certain time cannot have a private theatre because it is a prevention of conflicts of interest. If we start from the first, under the allegations of "neuralgic point" of this bill, and these are the administrative councils, it should be said that the administrative councils were also proposed by actors, directors, all those people from the profession who participated in the public stands. What exactly is the Administrative Council? The board of directors has all the theaters in the world, only that's what they might not call it. The administrative council has, for example, the New York Metropolitan, which is not funded by the state at all. Such theaters as Vienna Opera or London Kovngard are mostly funded by donations and do we all think that the one who gives money and the money, because the theatre is what they say is "a expensive toy", has no right to control how these money is spent. Of course there is, and that's how we do it more because there's a lot of money in our theaters. In only 4 National Theatres in Croatia, about 200 million kunas are invested annually. This is not small money, and we really don't see any reason why in the administrative councils where prominent cultural workers and artists themselves would sit, so that such a board of directors might not be exactly the bond, that bridge between the financier and the theatre itself, so to help and benefit the ingendent and his business director because the controls must be. What we heard yesterday as a counter-proposal is that, in fact, the mechanisms so far, which means to officials from city administrations or from the ministry, should allow officials to carry out that surveillance. This has been the case so far, so we know what happened, we got the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb with 12 million debts. So what kind of surveillance did it take to make such a debt happen? In addition, the officials, I call them, of course not in the persuasive sense, but I would say that the general practices in cultural circles cannot speak and point to funding gaps because they are simply not educated for it. They can add or subtract but they can't warn any principal that he spent too much because of it, that and that. In particular, if one intensifier for one opera involving three people is involved, three protagonists take three outside members, so three outside guests and pay them no clerk will ask that by saying Mr. Indente why you took these three and you didn't use three from your own house. But people who know the theater can say and stand behind it. So, this weight of artists or cultural people in the board of directors can have very deep implications, and in our opinion, in the opinion of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, it is simply a benefit for the theatre, not a pity. Furthermore, what was also heard yesterday in discussions that national theatres would lose their status can be denied not only in this Article 18, which says what national theatres in Croatia are but perhaps even a little wider thinking about what they really are and what is not a national theatre. National theatres in Croatia have a very long tradition, a very long history and the basic why they were founded in the 19th century should mostly remain until the day of today, and this is the care of primarily national repertoire, the care of world repertoire classics, the care of ensembles as such because there are no national theatres without permanent ensembles. Of course, however, there is a danger that national theatres themselves should be abolished, primarily in the aesthetic sense. Because if we think that one national theatre is national by being represented by the Seven Nationals, then it's a discussion or a contribution to a discussion on another topic. The National Theatre cannot be turned into an estraced theatre, since in this case it loses its fundamental identity. And in that sense, when the administrative councils speak, perhaps let them not even talk, perhaps some directors and intensities will work so perfectly that the administrative councils will indeed be decorations or fics as we like to speak in political life. However, in the boards of directors, if we choose the right people, those who point to such failures can sit because neither intention nor directors, whatever they call them, are as sinless as this bill is not without sin. In this first reading he will receive a series of remarks, a series of remarks both from the profession and of course that these remarks will be respected to the extent that it will be useful for the theatre. I point out that because yesterday on the Committee on Culture we had a very bright example of good and constructive cooperation of the profession. Yesterday, representatives and associations of the Croatian Society of Drama Artists and Unions in Culture were invited to the committee, were representatives of actors, representatives of directors. All of them were very constructively discussed but none of them said this bill was bad. However, it is a modern law and this law was only done on the basis of the fact that theatre activity as such is advanced but also that order is introduced because if 50% of Croatian theatres ended their business with a loss in the past year then we really think that something is wrong. In addition, the administrative councils that have stabbed us so much and talked about yesterday, and I am apostropheing them today, I say, are not even the invention of the legislator. They were proposed by the waist. However, I would only warn that there were very positive opinions about the administrative councils and in the previous meeting of the Ministry of Culture there are also documents that clearly show that even then there was talk, thought and even pawned, simply because the theatre in its idea can certainly have a very broad hand, but the tills are not like that. The theatre depends on one big piece of money and that taxpayer's money must be under control. These are the two basic objectives of this law that I assume you will agree to and raise your hand to him so that he only in the second reading with all the elements that we will receive primarily from the profession could he live. Furthermore, in this proposal of the Law on Theatres there are several other elements that need to be highlighted simply in order to make it final and ultimately is always a play and a higher audience, in order to lead to maximum quality. A ban on a theatre worker's competition with a theater. That may sound harsh, but it's not a ban or as we heard yesterday restricting the freedom of artists. It's just the introduction of order. So far, we have had cases in theatres that individual artists in their home homes where they received personal income and, of course, social and pension insurance did not perform for a year and two at all but therefore played very hard in all possible other places. It can certainly be further but under some legal circumstances and regulations. So, no bans in the pervasive sense are present here. It's just the introduction of order. The theater must certainly have freedom. The Intentant will continue to have the freedom to create his own program but that program must be paid. And that is why we think that the introduction of a business director who is also proposed by gentlemen from the theatre is also not the invention of the legislator, that the introduction of a business director is what is called management in the world, and that means controlling state money in the theater itself, but also finding possible other sources outside the theater to make it work better, and of course one constant control over all that unfortunately beautiful art and theater follows and these are material resources. Well, in that sense, I'm going to finish this exhibit of mine. The Croatian Democratic Community club will in any way support the bill's proposal in the first reading, with the belief that by the second reading, it will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50571	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50572	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is absolutely incorrect that the distinguished Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic argues that the profession in a sort of public debate that has been brought about over this bill was supported by the administrative council. So there was a public dispute, and that's why this law came to the headlines of the newspaper. It's because politics advocates something persistent for unknown reasons without a valid argument. He's advocating something that the waist is opposed to. And what's the point of saying here right now is the inaccuracy that the waist has supported something that the waist has completely rejected. I totally threw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50573	Second correction by the esteemed representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50574	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect that a colleague said that none of the professions said the law was bad. On October 31st this year, I organised a conversation with artists of the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin and representatives of the Union and artistic staff. The conclusion is that the bill is bad this way. Not just about the Artistic Council, about conflict of interest and everything. Therefore, if you claim something, you should give arguments in which artistic circles the law is said to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50575	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50576	Yeah, it's kind of like that, and I think it's a false assumption that... I'm quoting the Seven Nationals is not essential to the national theatre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can say whatever we want, but the audience in those national theatres we saw bringing the Seven Nationals and if all the plays were visited as Caroline Rijeka if I wasn't wrong then the grotesque of our theatres would not actually have any losses that the HDZ Club representative was also talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50577	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50578	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the beginning of 2003, when the Working Group for the Construction of the Law on Theatres, established by the Croatian Society of Drama Artists, developed a proposal for an organisation of theatre life for the amendments and additions of the Law on Theatres or the new Law on Theatres, which should be organised by the organisational design of theatres that the owner of the city begins to open public and above all quality debate on the system of theatre organisation in Croatia. In 2004, after the adoption of the Law on Cultural Councils, it talks about live activity that lasts here until today when we received this Proposal for a Law on Theatres that tries to reconcile everything that the Working Group has found. All that has been opened in the Working Group as perhaps dubious, all that has shown the need to change, adapt or comply with the legal norms that have been unsaid in existing systems. For a short period of time, I would also try to refer immediately to the concrete proposal of the Law on Theatres and try to make observations on some of the articles that are very important to us in the HSS Club and which is important for the applicant to discuss and consider and accept in that form which would significantly improve this text. Article 3 that is very important to us, in Article 3, paragraph 2 of the Law states that theatre activities can only be performed by theatres and theatre groups. In this way, existing theatre houses as a form of theatre organisational forms cease to exist. These should comply with the new legal decisions within the time limit set out in Article 53 of the Law. I believe that such a radical solution is too fast and will cause the complete disappearance of theatre institutions especially in smaller areas; Sibenik, Zadar, Karlovac, Požega, Vinkovci and so on. In which, in the early 60s, 60 years ago, administratively abolished professional ensembles. Furthermore, Article 4 which is relatively short but very important determines what is meant by the necessary artistic, organisational and technical workers? And while it could be concluded from the full definition that it is, for example, the existing professional city theatres, for example, those in Gavela, Kerempuh and similar inaccuracies with regard to the necessary human resources open up the possibility of broad interpretation. For example, this definition provides a very objective opportunity for the founder of an existing theatre house to take this institution under theatres, since it can assess how two members, two actors with many years of experience from over 400 performances, 4 stage technicians and the other accompanying staff are exactly the necessary personnel minimum. In Article 6, we do not see a legal obstacle to dealing with theatre, theatre, and association activities in accordance with the Law on Associations and even as craftsmen. In Article 11 of the Decisions referred to in Article 10, the earlier draft decisions were more acceptable because they related salaries in this activity to the Gran collective agreements until these provisions no longer show that, by means of a collective agreement at the level of the State, the remuneration of theatre employees in public institutions is equal to that of the units of local self-government, depending on their potentials which are different offices, this decision or collective contract at a lower level, which will unquestionably lead to an unquestionably different social position of the same category of workers in different areas. It may be concluded in Article 12 of the principle of discipline of the provisions of Article 12(1) that the founder shall open an invitation to tender for an inident or director in a conflict with the provision of Article 26(4) in which the invitation to tender is to be opened and implemented by the Administrative Board. Article 20 asks the question concerning the Governing Council system in those theatres which do not have permanent artistic staff but which engages it on a specific project or at a specific time shorter than the Governing Council's mandate. Does a member of the Governing Council remain an artist who has been hired for example for a year and is no longer engaged after the end of that period, or ceases his work in the theatre and his membership in the Governing Council? It's a question that must definitely be considered. In Article 21, we insist that the provisions on the competences of the Administrative Council of the Public Theatre be completed, the provision of Article 21 The bill's proposal is too narrowly defined and leaves plenty of room for the constitutional regulation of competences that we consider to be wrong. This provision is also limited to the provision of general jurisdiction of administrative, administrative councils under the Law on Institutions, let alone in relation to our view of the authority of this body as the administrative and supervisory body of the theatre. In addition, we hold that the Administrative Council cannot propose to the founder of the Institute or the Director in relation to the changes in the organisation of the theatre when it is a matter of the act on the organisation of the work of the theatre, which is in accordance with the indent of Article 21(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill is passed by the Administrative Council. In Article 22, we welcome the function of introducing a business director into the Croatian Theatre even in the reduced mandatory mode of development provided for in this text. However, we continue to believe that the powers of the intensifier and the business director as parallel heads of the theatre institution are insufficiently determined which will cause a number of problems in practice. The person representing or representing the national theatre is not defined at all. Is that an intensifier or a business director? Or who will be included in the court register as the legal representative of this institution? Article 22 is replaced by the following: The bill doesn't show that. Such a solution will lead to problems on the occasion of the institution's entry into the court register and it is necessary to request the expert opinion of the Ministry of Justice or the High Commercial Court of the Republic of Croatia in the context of the concept of this standard. We believe that the applicant cannot be responsible only for the art work of the house, and that all responsibility for the business of the house falls on a business director who has no influence on artistic ambitions of the indents that are necessarily reflected in all business positions of the theatre. It is necessary to determine, in Article 30, whether an external member of the Board of Directors of the Public Theatre may act artisticly in that theatre during the term of office in the Governing Council and whether there is a conflict of interest in this case. We think that if a member of the board of directors works artisticly in a theater that governs that this is an obvious example of conflict of interest. In Article 33, how private theatres can be established as institutions, companies and art organisations, this provision could, by nature, only refer to private theatres established as institutions. In fact, the way in which companies and art organisations are managed is clearly established by specific laws and we believe that this law cannot establish another concept of governance from the one envisaged for example by the Law on Commercial Companies or the Law on Associations. In Article 38, we do not see the need for a financial audit to be carried out every year. It is, however, a matter of assessing audit authorities and specific regulations. It would be necessary to arrange for the founder’s competent authority to control the financial operations of a public theatre which, as a budgetary user, has been directly ordered and in accordance with the accounting regulations of the budget and of the budgetary users. In this article, Article 40 again uses the concept of a national theatre ensemble that has, as such, existed in the draft bill, and has been abandoned as a term in this proposal, need nomotechnical finishing, i.e. coordination is needed. In Article 40, we welcome the adopted concept of limited working binding of artists to the theatre, and we cannot notice certain ambiguities in the conduct of the audition process. In this regard, it is prescribed that the applicant appoints an audition committee in accordance with the general remarks already made in relation to the powers of the intensifier or the business director, the question in which the humane problem of the institution lies, how the business director organises and manages the business which, of course, includes the staff problem of the theatre. The Executive Director should appoint an audition committee, either on a proposal or with the opinion of the applicant. It is also not precisely solved, which means the subsignation of the intensifier and the business director to the contract of work with the theatre artist. Does this mean that agreement must be reached on the selection of candidates between these two directors, i.e. that the decision by public tender is taken by the consent of both directors. If there is no positive indication of one of them, there is no decision on the selection of candidates for the reception of the theatre artist. In Article 47, in addition to those cases of conflict prevention of interest, special protection should also be introduced in such a way that, within the theatre, a theatre operator cannot carry out fees and conclude additional copyright contracts or performance contracts except in particular those cases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of Article 51(1), an invitation to Article 50(1) of this Act should be made instead of Article 51(1). This provision should also set out in Article 58 in order to meet and implement a new concept of the legal arrangement of the theatre action a certain time vacuum in which, in a way that separates the entry into force of this law from the date of its application and during at least a two-year period during which units of local self-government through the additional engagement of the Ministry of Culture on the ground would be familiar with all the intensities of this bill. Here are some of our suggestions, the remarks we make and we believe that, by respecting these views of our suggestions, this law in many ways would be improved, in order to be consistent with all those who are most interested in the quality proposal of this law. In order to avoid many possible misunderstandings and in such a way as to finally have one quality proposal of the Law on Theatres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50579	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50580	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague Markov said that compliance with this law would disappear small theatres in Croatia, so he listed several small theatres. It's simply not trueO, it's simply not true that by passing this law, small theaters can disappear. This law does not touch any of its articles. And second of all, it's not about the author's work like you said, it's about the author's work. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50581	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50582	He incorrectly stated that this law does not show who will be responsible for work and legality, whether an intensifier or a business director. In this regard, Article 24 clearly states that the director organises and implements an art programme, organises and conducts a business, represents and represents a theatre, i.e. a theatre family, runs a business policy and is responsible for the legality of work. The tasks and powers of the Director in relation to the tasks laid down by law shall be determined by means of an act of establishment and statute. So he represents and represents the theatre and is responsible for the legality of the work. It is therefore also entered in the register as a person who is authorised to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50583	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50584	Thank you very much. He's blaming the assumption that this law doesn't show and he doesn't know who's running the theater. I think it's quite clear, just me, unlike my colleague Peronja, I don't think it's the director, because if you see what the director has to do, either ingenuity or business director to come to a certain decision. As I read this law, I think it's clear that the administrative council is running the theater, so actually, politics is running the theater. Or eventually, if you want a founder.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50585	And respected representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50586	It is an incorrect claim by colleagues Markov that the business director has no artistic ambition, because this bill promotes him to the main person who will actually decide on the programme, repertoire and which play will be given or not. Because it's the one who keeps it in quotes, as you call it a colloquial bag, that's going to be the main artist on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50587	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning, listening to the debate of distinguished colleague Jagoda Martincevic, we heard what the HDZ Club thinks about this bill. Among other things, the proposal was made in cooperation with the profession and it reflects the position of the profession, and it is evidenced by yesterday's meeting of the committee responsible, and that the representatives of the profession spoke on that committee. Not all professions are collected on the constituency board. There as external representatives sit and talk only some representatives of the profession. But this law has also been conducted by a kind of public debate. And here in that public debate we could hear what the profession of this law means. And it cannot be manipulated now by two or three representatives of the profession who are at the will of the parliamentary majority sitting on that committee, supporting the government law, carrying out the conclusion here, the profession behind it stands. It's simply incorrect. So the waist also acts outside the board and acts in the general public. So tell me one of the indents of a national theater that supported this. So tell me the director of any theatre in Croatia, which is the founder of the city or municipalities or county that supported this. Well, there aren't any. Well, that's the point. That's what this is all about. The representatives of the profession were invited, it is true in the working group when the draft bill was drawn up and they made their remarks and expected these remarks to be respected, to enter into the bill. And what do people say now? All we suggested was that it fell out. What we agreed on is out of the law. There was a different bill. It's about the director's policy and the board of directors. Look, the principal's been setting up politics so far. So the claim that the introduction of administrative councils means the politicisation of the theatre does not stand. That's where the proposer is absolutely right. Politics sets up directors to set up congregations of cities and municipalities, meaning the founder's representative. So, clearly, who else will set it up, who else should appoint the director rather than the Founder. He owns it and has the right to appoint a director and there's nothing controversial about it. There's nothing to argue about. But when it comes to a possible shift of such a director, then the board will serve as a front-page policy for an unwarranted, unfounded shift where politics will then say, so I didn't replace it, so that's what the board of directors is proposing to me as an expert body to replace it. So let him appear before the congregation, and he has the right to do so. At any moment, he has the right to go to the assembly and say I suggest that the director be relieved. First because he didn't meet the program or spend too much money or not good or I don't like it. Let him come and say it in front of the congregation. But then it will be public and the whole process and the shift will take place completely transparently in front of the public, and this way they will be covered, covered by the expert opinion of the Administrative Council. Well, that's how the directors of all hospitals are replaced. What Minister Hebrang said, I replaced them, not so the administrative council replaced them. That's what he said, and that's what's going to happen to us in the theater. You completely unnecessarily spoil a relationship that is clean and clear between the founder and the director. The manager the founder set up there according to his free will with full right. You see as a reason to introduce that the administrative council, there you hear, look but theatres have been making losses, directors haven't been able to manage it, they've been producing losses. Please, who's in charge of control, who's got to control the principal? Well, the founder. So who else will control him than the Founder. So is the founder, so don't tell me that five people will now be more qualified for that control than some city office for culture that has its leader and that has professional people there. Well, these five, so you won't find one who knows how to meet a virmaniac. So how's he gonna control the financial business? How? So why, you predicted it in law, you have to do a once-a-year review, so that's just fine. I hear the HSS club is against it. Why? So let the theaters be revised. Comes I don't know, I think the auditor's house, checks the principal's papers and see if he's doing business in accordance with the law or not. That's good. But that competent culture office, the founder can do it at any time. So do you think the Culture Office doesn't know if a director is spending money or not, beyond measure? Of course you do. Of course you do. Well, there's not a single city culture office, there's not a single founder who doesn't know how his theater works in his town or the municipality. There isn't. The fact that he doesn't replace that director is quite another reason. It's a whole other reason. Maybe because he's politically protected, he'll cover his loss, so let him cover it, and let him go before the citizens. Whose money is that? It's citizens' money, taxpayers' money, so let the founder explain why he covered someone's loss. I covered that director's loss, because that's my principal. He's nice to me, he's made a loss, nothing, I'll cover it. And there you have it from us, look at us, it's crystal clear. And they won't, these won't, these five won't be able to control you, they won't know how to do it. They won't know how to do it first. Who should you have... You'd have to have an auditor's representative, you'd have to have him in order to control his financial operations. You want to have it? No, you said it would be theater experts. What do you think these experts are gonna do, how are they gonna control it? Introduce, where according to the current law and in practice the situation is clear who manages the theatre. Well, clearly, it is clear that the theatre is governed by the intentions of these communal theatres by directors. You are now introducing not two-states but three-states. You didn't know how to resolve it in the law, which is why they appear in the law of such awkwardness in the slightest word, that's the easiest I could use, that you wrote that the administrative council is in charge, that the director is in charge, and that the indent is in charge of the theater. Come on, you answer me, who... Who's in charge? [[You don't understand.]] Let's imagine a hypothetical but actually a real life situation. There's a play to be done, a set to be obtained, a contract with a set designer, how much that set will cost. One hundred thousand kunas thinkintent. The business director says no, you can't do it for 50. The board of directors thinks it's 80, and the principal would like to give 102. Who's making the decision? Who by this law of yours decides how much the set will be paid? They, look until they agree, all the time has passed to make prime minister, because they can't make a deal. Well, he can't lead five captains, because he's not going anywhere in any port, he's going to crash the first chance he gets, and he's going to hit the coast, he's going to roll over. It doesn't work that way, it just doesn't work that way. Look, this isn't ideological law. This is all one thing. Is this law proposing this law or that government, is it proposed by HDZ or SDP or HNS? We're talking about the quality of that law here, only quality. And take note of these remarks made by the profession and these remarks made to you by a well-intentioned policy. You'll spoil your relationship at the theater if you pass a law like this. You'll ruin it. Look, you're gonna do some damage. As long as the damage is corrected, by the time the new law is passed, the debate will pass for years. You're completely unnecessary and extremely irresponsible to go to an area so you don't know where it's going to lead. You don't have the answers to those questions. You don't. They don't write in the law. The law is full of... It's a hole. [[You don't understand.]] I listened yesterday to what was correcting the incorrect allegation, allegedly an incorrect allegation, said colleague Bagarić, please nice, well-known theatrelogist who says if this is appreciated what Stazic is saying then only comedy will be played, alluding that my texts will be played in the theatre. Look, if we argue like that, then this is not gonna be comedy or tragedy, it's gonna be satire, it's gotta be described.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50589	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to defend the profession from Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations. Mr. Stazić whether what I showed from the pay phone, which is the theatre law of the organization of the Croatian Society of Drama Artists, was downloaded from the website, is the date of 1.12.2005., where "control and advisory bodies in theatres and their powers" are part of the theatre commission, administrative councils, art councils and financial committees. Is that a fake? It's not. That's the opinion of the profession. Secondly, why do you think the board of directors would meet in secret? They're not secret societies, they're not first Christians. They're not going to catacombs. They'll say what they think as well as the review. After all, the audit was done at the Croatian National Theatre, there was an audit, there was shortages, there was a change of agenda, and you declared it a political act. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50591	Thank you. Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50592	It is incorrect that the profession did not participate in this Bill proposal and that it does not agree with it is already true because in the Split-Dalmatia County Croatian National Theatre Split agreed with this first reading. In fact, it encourages that it continues to be updated in terms of everyone's participation in the debate, as well as the Hvar Open Theatre, the Old Town Theatre, the amateur "Peter Hektorovic", actors in Zagvozd welcome as one step ahead to modernly edit and manage the other segments. And in the very way that municipalities and cities participate, create an art programme and participate in co-financing so that less, where fewer actors could be held in remote areas, not just in the headquarters of our county in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50593	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50594	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct two incorrect allegations from my fellow Stazic. The first was that individuals, as he said, were representatives of the profession we were referring to, who, at our will, were sitting on that committee. That's not true. Yesterday there were representatives who were as interested representatives of the profession, first of the Union of Artists one president who said she represented a thousand 220, I think, members. Furthermore, the representative of the actors, the director's representative and the only representative who is really sitting on that committee is the president of the Croatian Association of Drama Artists. So, the whole profession had representatives at that meeting yesterday. And immediately to deny what you said, that the profession said that everything they suggested was out. That's not true. They said that a good part of their demands was respected, of course there was still work to be done on some irregularities as it was pointed out yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50595	Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Petar Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50596	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected fellow Stazic that the administrative council will serve as a front. I don't believe and I don't see any reason in advance for five or three people who believe in professional and honest people to accuse themselves of serving anyone as a front. And I also think that it is an incorrect quote from my fellow Stazic that it will be about God's expertise. I think the board of directors will be expert, indeed professional, not certainly professional.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50597	Fifth correction, respected representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50598	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the distinguished representative Stazic said in his statement that the introduction of administrative councils means politicising the theatre, which I find incorrect. Through the boards of directors, the founder will oversee the work of the theatre, and I don't even know why so much dust is rising around the introduction of administrative councils. Well, the board of directors, let's say, they have all the medical facilities and I don't see anything controversial. In fact, I think it's one step forward, a positive step forward. He then said that members of the board would not know how to say it, which is not true. We can't know in advance what the board will do, what composition they will have, and we assume that they will have the composition of those who understand themselves in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50599	Sixth Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, questioned the professional work of the boards of directors, expressed a number of incorrect allegations, referring to the possible shift of directors he tried to bring under the political protection of directors and when he lost. In fact, all institutions in culture have administrative councils, so the theatre should be managed by the administrative council. In the administrative board, the founder appoints professional people who protect his interest, and administrative councils, i.e. institutions in culture, give reports on their work and before the budget is adopted, so the congregations can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50601	And the last, distinguished representative, Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50602	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an incorrect quote on the qualifications of board members. I read in the Law: "The Board of Public Theatre and the Public Theatre Group has 3 to 5 members, most of whom are appointed by the representative body of founders from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers". So it's, to me, it's actually not clear in advance to disqualify and discredit the administrative council. It leads to doubts actually of defending some previously acquired positions, rights from the time when all decisions were made in one place, clearly to committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50603	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50604	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Proposal for a Law on Theatres may be right and also from a nomotechnic, and also in a substantive sense an example of how laws should not actually be written. And she would agree with those who claimed yesterday, and very carefully and carefully, that this bill is particularly his argument, and an insult to the MPs. So we have nothing else to explain but to give an interpretation except that it is not in the administrative speech but in the irregular speech of all the articles. And so began from first to last. It's not an explanation, it's only made up to satisfy the form. And so, perhaps the motioner was going to write a real proposal for a law on theatres, and he made up this proposal essentially a theater of law. This is not how laws are written. And although the promoter proudly calls for our legal tradition in terms of normativeity in this area and even a year from where the first such written normative act of 1861 comes from, it is said that this one is modern. Unfortunately, here I had the opportunity to see in the archives and that proposal. It's much more modern and freer than this bill. I'll just mention a few norms. It has already been criticised here that the powers of the owner, i.e. the founder, and which are accordingly precisely because he appears as the founder and his rights. I do not think that in the case of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb as a national theatre, just because it is the founder of the Government, it would have such powers. We are simply rigid and yet unteached to understand the issue of ownership, so we mean the one who gives money, which finances to have unlimited rights. It gives him no special privilege at all. Especially not if we want to say that there is a very important profession and that the law is modern. It has been pointed out several times, i.e. what is said and also from other clubs, and on behalf of the SDP Club, that the profession is not respected here, that the profession has raised its voice. It is here that those who defend the Government's proposal say exactly that the profession has just been involved in making which is not disputed, but it is not enough and that a lot of these remarks are respected, that most of them are respected, but the rest will wait for another reading. This is how our rulings like to call on them when someone, when someone is found, and even from the profession who supports it, but part of the profession, a large majority who does not support this particular proposal is being bagatelised, does not exactly want to bring them to the stage so that these people can say something, or their voice to be heard and argued. However, it is not a rare phenomenon, nor in any case, that it is precisely when the law is made up, and then the proposer is greatly praised by the fact that he has been involved in the profession, preventing them from making their remarks publicly, but they warn that everything that is said must be a secret. This is a very interesting way of coming to modern and modern law and how we later like to hide behind the opinion and word of the profession. The Governing Council has already been said so much, and this is so minimally said by our colleague Stazic that it does not really need to be repeated, but really if he means well to the theatre, then he must imagine himself on these remarks, on these remarks which are serious and which are not in any sense politicised, but he might want to do so, perhaps he is just trying to cloud the situation and that exactly non-transparent solutions are hidden behind the decision of the Governing Council. We usually like to hide behind collective bodies that don't fit in with us for nothing. Perhaps if the Governing Council were to meet their individual responsibility, then that would be different, unfortunately this is not the case. In Article 25, just as I was teaching what I said, it is said that the indent and business director of the Croatian National Theatre are referred to in paragraph 1. in Zagreb appointed and resolved by the Government. Of course, it's no administrative act because it's uncontrollable, and the government doesn't have to give any reason to what's inadmissible in a democratic world, in a democratic government, in a government that loves to say to itself that it is democratic and that has ambitions to become more than that. In fact, this is nothing more than a naked act of power. If the applicant had made an effort not to do so, then at least, although it is an act of government, not an administrative act, at least he pointed out that the public at least finds out why and how the argument is, we see here those intendants and directors who are founders of units of local self-government, county, cities and municipalities, that however much the participation of the representative body is involved. At least that's where the reasons, the shifts and the reasons for the appointments will be heard. Something like this that's of primary interest to the public we won't hear a word about, and for what? Why hide in advance? Either the situations that have already been seen are presupposed, or they already cover established practices. And it's a very interesting thing to repeat from one law to another, so we have a case here in Article 26 that the competition is published in the daily press, and for the National Theatres, let's do it well in "The People's Newspaper". "The People's Newspaper," it may not be a waste to note, that few read and those who should read them, who apply the laws, but remains a controversial daily press. There can be no such thing as "Zadarski list", and the competition is for the director in a completely different region of Croatia, and that is the form that is fulfilled, and it is a simple practice for you to do so and to do so. So, in any case, it should also be specified that, at least from the beginning, we would at least be familiar with the appointment process. And something that really raises serious concerns and raises the question no matter what the promoter thought and wanted in Article 27(2) where he says that this is how all candidates have the right to see all of those, in all the information of all those participants in the competition, but he says he has a strong obligation not to make public or publicize the information he learns from the candidate's insight. Something similar to those of a task force you love to boast about supporting you, and you are making it impossible to speak to those, i.e. you are not allowing or adjudicating or denying, and those who think otherwise. Why would this be any secret? So whoever participates and wants to participate in public life in any form, he has a duty simply to publicly expose himself, it is not, of course, ever pleasant, but it is a risk and it is something that all participants and those pretenders of any form of public life have to decide, and very these are disputable labour provisions that should not be here at all, and it is a regular practice, which is something quite unnecessary that the law enters on the 8th day of publication, and that it applies only on January 1st. It's completely unnecessary, it creates legal confusion, confusion, so it's been unknown since the deadlines run for regulation, whether from the day of entry into force, or from the day of application, and then we see that this application has some kind of legal force, because there's a deadline. That's how the proposer didn't make up a valid proposal for the Law on Theatres, maybe made up a good tower.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50605	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50606	To hide a harsh reality behind him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50607	Thank you. We have a series of incorrect corrections. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50608	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague must have wanted to be funny and said incorrectly that the proposer had made a theater out of the law, and I claim that the proposer had made a great deal of modern law that would introduce order into theatres. Sometimes someone who talks here might want to show this law to the theater, but for that, dear colleagues should be a much better actor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50609	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50610	She incorrectly stated that this is an unmodified law, that she does not have what she should be because 56 articles are really well worked out in how public theatres, public theatres, how it is managed, how it is done, by placing maximum freedom inside the house that tasks and powers are determined closer to the current establishment and the Statute, even at the Croatian National Theatre "Ivana Noble Zajca" Rijeka is obliged to propose to the Administrative Council the appointment of assistants and intensities for Italian drama, which is exclusively to the application of the Law on National Minorities, which points to a high standard which certainly does not reach other countries in Europe. Of course, this Law speaks of what the standard should have, nomotechnical approach, outstanding, reading, shaving, clear and convincing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50611	Third correction, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50612	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it is incorrect that the vast majority of professions do not support this bill since it forces me to assume the role of the parrot I will be very happy to do so today during the debate. I repeat, it is not true that the vast majority of professions do not support, 40 Tribunes with professions, twenty meetings with the ministry with professions and these websites that I have already shown twice as many associations that include the largest theatre membership in our country. Secondly, it is incorrect that anyone was prevented from speaking publicly about what was going on around the law. I don't know what secret that is. I repeat, we are not the first Christians in catacombs. It was all a public and transparent colleague. I don't know what secret you're talking about. Believe me, I come from that mile unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50613	Fourth correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50614	Thank you, Mr. President. One part has already been corrected by a colleague of Jagoda, but I'd like to say for the public. It is incorrect, it is entirely incorrect that someone is forbidden to make their views known, that someone was prevented from making their views about this law. In fact, it's exactly the opposite. Well, the media is full of various statements from intensities to actors, etc. Therefore, it is a completely incorrect assumption that someone was forbidden to talk about this law, ma'am, so we are no longer at a time of communism to prohibit anyone from speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50615	The fifth correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50616	Thank you very much. Well, in a series of inaccuracies that counterpart Anticevic made out of which some colleagues have already corrected, I will correct following her allegations. She said, "The government that has ambitions to say to itself that it is democratic or has the ambition to just become it." This is totally incorrect because this government has shown on a mass of things that it is quite democratic unlike the one before which it has refused to listen once or once in four years to what parliament has said. The government has already shown on several occasions that it can and wants to listen to what parliament is saying and thus demonstrates its democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50617	Sixth Amendment of Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic said the profession was not respected, something was hiding and working in secret about the law. That's not true. Jagoda Jagoda Majska-Martinčević has already corrected the part because she was involved in the preparation of the law and yesterday on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture were representatives of the profession, welcomed the adoption of the law, made concrete remarks on a number of articles to improve the law and get exactly the way theatre officials should. And by all accounts, it seems to me that the goal is not to pass the law, so I wonder why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50619	The seventh correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50620	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, says the founder has unlimited rights because he gives money. And now imagine, this founder actually achieves his rights through the governing council and I repeat, the administrative council is formed from the ranks of prominent artists and workers in culture. Other members of their ranks are selected by the artistic staff of the theatre. So all we need is a certificate of similarity from you. Second, cloud the situation by forming collective bodies. Well, I guess we remember your negative experiences. The presidency, presidency president or negative experience are also suffering from the collective management of the former coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50621	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! So I have to say that this current course of debate shows that in some way we're left and right, we seem to be having a diametric opposite of thinking. I must say that at this meeting held with artists at the Croatian National Theatre or those gathered around the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin, it is the fact that they too claim to have been consulted with the profession. However, the majority, in their words, of what they have proposed is not incorporated into the text of this law. More specifically, the majority of artists associated with the Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin thinks the bill is bad. I stress, in Varazdin. Therefore, no one can claim that everyone has estimated that the law is good. This is about a theatre from the province which, by participating in numerous festivals, gets very good criticism and commendation for its work. We also see what is said there that this law is not passed because of the theatre and the improvement of the theatre in Croatia, but because of several theatres in Croatia, primarily the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. If losses have arisen there, the question arises because so far the law gives the founders the opportunity and responsibility to react in the event of loss and everything else. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of responsibility for what the founders have done so far and have not responded in time to prevent losses. I must admit that even so far, the law gives every teacher or director of the theatre the opportunity to react if an actor is said here for a year or longer does not work in his home theater and he is working elsewhere. We can ask a question of responsibility and reasons why it didn't respond. I would prefer to talk here both stronger and more emphasis on the financing of the entire theatre activity in Croatia and art in general. We're talking about how funding has been insufficient so far. For example, HNK in Varazdin, those gathered claimed that not enough funding was at least for the Varazdin HNK. If it's been said that there's a projection going on for the next four years, if so far it's not enough based on it I'd love you and I'd like someone to convince me that it's going to be more quality and better funding again. We also do not deal with this law how to enable better quality financing of art and theatres in Croatia possibly by reducing VAT on advertising, marketing and everything else. It was said in the debate that it seems to me from a colleague of May that national theatres are according to what they have, it depends on repertoire and ensembles. Therefore, if we speak of someone as a national theatre, then it is absolutely certain that the government, and this Parliament, too, must take more care of how we will finance them better and better. We were talking about Seve Nacional. If we don't finance theatre art and we claim to be national, then obviously it has to resort to some other means that will lead to more audiences, more marketing, more advertising, more sponsors to maintain such a theater. However, it seems to me that slowly but surely we are putting aside. As for the boards of directors, I accept that it can be the composition of the board of directors and that, however, when we look at the jurisdiction of these boards of directors here, it is said that they must be of the order of prominent cultural workers. I'll take it. However, ladies and gentlemen, who guarantees us that given the responsibility of the work of the administrative councils that there will be experts on final accounts or accounts, for finances because one of the important parts of the work and it seems to me in the explanation of Minister Bishop yesterday the reason for the adoption of this law and the introduction of administrative councils is precisely the losses in theatres. I'd like to hear you tell me and explain how much we have top financial experts in the ranks of cultural workers and whether they're trained enough for such a job. I'm afraid we don't. But it's important that they're from the ranks of prominent cultural workers, especially when local self-government does it, then there's going to be everything and everything, and I'm afraid of politics and everything else. We have an example of a theatre in Croatia where losses were made. The financial director comes to another theater for the principal, so that's where she's been making losses and here she'll make a financial rebirth. Another thing I want to say is that, unfortunately, this law does not allow artists in theatres to influence the work, the programme work of theatres, and we know that other institutions in culture have artistic or professional councils. I'd like to hear the reasons why something like that doesn't go into the theater. Not because we have self - control but probably more people know more, there is a greater possibility of a certain quality. Conflict of interest. We see here the undisciplinedness of this government as the legislator of the law. Yesterday we discussed textbook laws. There's a conflict of interest, but it's underdeveloped. We also heard in the discussion that we have a certain circle of people who under quotes stamp textbooks and everything else. There's nothing too much to say about how to forbid them from entering a conflict of interest? Here's very, I'd say even details about how artists, directors can't work at another institution. Or who can give them approval? Here is a very practical and pragmatic reason. Can I, as a representative, of course, do something under the law allowed to do in my spare time? Well, I can still understand that this applies to an actor who doesn't work in the parent house around the corner. But this is also about the set and everyone else, and the wages in art and we often talk about it ourselves are insufficient. So it's said here that an actor or another house that hires an actor with his home has to make a contract, so we don't know what it's going to look like, what it's going to look like with payment and with everything else? The working relations between ladies and gentlemen, here is the introduction that can be good because it introduces some kind of competition working relationship and a certain time for projects. I warn you of the Croatian practice that a good part of the new jobs in Croatia, this is what the practice has shown by mentioning, opening and hiring new people for a certain working time. I'm afraid it's going to be a rule and in theaters they want to admit it to me or not. That's where the social moment is. The one especially for young actors and especially for theatres in the province that are smaller, which would nevertheless have a permanent ensemble and people who are employed constantly have a continuity of performances and good performances. How are you going to ask the representatives of the government, how will a young artist who finishes the academy their most common path is to go to the province, how will they get, for example, credit to solve their housing issue? Or will you, by the second reading of the Law, determine and impose on banks and financial institutions that such artists and for the sake of working for a certain period of time must be credited? I think the question is very clear. We also know that the performance of actors especially on Croatian TV contributes to popularity and theatres and individual theatre performances. So I think there's a lot of contradiction here. After all, it seems to me personally that this Law needs to be fundamentally and significantly repaired until the second reading. He has too many shortcomings and seems to me to be more of a public voice and profession from the province. Unfortunately, we also have into the art of metropolision. Let's work a little bit to make that culture reach a little bit more than it's ever been in the province. In my deep conviction, this law is both theatre and socially unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50623	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50624	Mr. President, just one for start, I'll discuss the rest later. It is incorrect that this Law is adopted only for the sake of the Croatian National Theatre. It is, in Zagreb, simply an incorrect assumption. This Law really regulates theatre activity in Croatia. Of course, I am quite convinced that in the second reading and after adoption it will indeed be better arranged by this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50625	Second correction, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50626	Well, my colleague Matusic has already corrected what I wanted, but here I am just going to say it again. A colleague said incorrectly that the reasons for the adoption of this Law are only for the sake of the Croatian National Theatre. That's not true, it needs to be fixed. Of course, this Law too will apply to theatre activity. Theatre art in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50627	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50628	Thank you, sir, so here I am correcting an incorrect assumption that experts from finance should be from the ranks of top artists or vice versa. Every theatre has an economist, some head of finance and every project in the theater has a certain price. Costs and revenues can be adjusted. However, the payment of parent actors working outside the home on family affairs, nepotism or the like can be highly warned by the Administrative Council. I think that's what it's for. And all this other stuff is doing audits, financial and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50629	Fourth correction, respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50630	Thank you very much. My colleague, Korenik, is completely incorrect that the person who made the losses is coming to Varazdin for the principal. This person in Zagreb covered the losses that your government had made and had not controlled for 4 years, and our Government had to recall it after the control was carried out and it was not a political act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50631	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50632	I was actually going to say the exact same thing as my colleague Martincevic. It is about Mrs. Jasna Jakovljevic, who is now appointed acting as the performer of the Varazdin Theatre. She, we all know that at the theater, saved the HNK, covered the losses that others were doing, and in the end when the crisis had already come she managed to reduce the debt by about 3 million kuna at a time when she was acting as an agent. So it's absolutely incorrect that she was creating debts in HNK and then went to the Varazdin theater there to re-create debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50633	The sixth correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50634	A completely incorrect finding by counterpart Korenik, who spoke of the Varazdin theatre, said it was a provincial theatre. I hereby disprove it because the theater in Varazdin is by no means a provincial theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50635	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50637	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. I don't think we should talk any further, although I agree with most of the presentations of the distinguished colleague on the issue of theatre black and white and that the issue of theatre is treated as a party issue because we ourselves know what is the legislative tradition regarding, Croatian theatre dates back to 1861 and there is no government of yours, there is no government, the government is the Republic of Croatia. I think we've located it and we're keeping it out of the two main things, and that's what's important: we can't touch artistic freedoms. So politics is out of the theater. To enable public call and choice both directors and indents in such a way that they will all have the same opportunity, and let the expert bodies do so. On the other hand, the problem is, and this is the problem we must not tolerate even financial waste. We've had a lot of cases, unfortunately, and the debauchery on one side is the result of a bad ingenuity. On the other hand, even the structure of the locals that just produce to be, that the theater may be lost. So let's focus on that part. It's true that these solutions are no good to the board of directors, directors, intensities because there's no telling who's doing what anymore, and how? An intendant can't do anything if he doesn't have the money. He doesn't decide that. Therefore, that solution is not good. It's not good, and let's do the profession and give the right answer for a second reading where we'll all be satisfied. That won't be a party question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50638	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50639	Thank you very much. So the fact that I am in my presentation seems to me to be very clear and precise and so far the mechanisms of the Law on Theatre have enabled the founders to react in case of loss and everything else in time. We can ask a question, again stressing the responsibilities that are the reasons that they have not responded? If yesterday's minister is that one of the main reasons for passing the new law is the accumulation of losses, then he, as a minister, should have asked a question of someone's responsibility and told us clearly and precisely who it is. If I said this applies, I did not just say at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, at several theatres, precision works. By the way, my colleague Pleša, I said that the Varazdin HNK, according to the position of Varazdin, may be a geographical province compared to Zagreb as a metropolis, but I also proudly stressed that he won the awards for work at both his actors, directors and all others. I mean precision and honesty works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50640	And the next replica, the esteemed representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50641	Thank you, Mr. President. A little bit of a colleague Markovanovic beat me to it, but I want to say this. Today, the thesis that I don't know about is that only financial experts need to discuss finance, just before that about the Law of Theatre, just famous theatrelogists. So this High House is discussing everything, has the right to discuss everything, so probably that pyramid should be released even lower to the administrative councils and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50642	Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm unusually glad that it's just a topic from culture that she's had such a heated debate, I think it's good for Croatian society as a whole, regardless of what we obviously disagree on in all the specifics that are still on the agenda today, or what's in this bill of law. That, of course, also means that my debate will be closely followed, and for that very reason I would like to use these few minutes and say something about the situation in the theatre today. First of all, every theater exists for audiences, there's a program. And every little qualified person for that area, cultural activity, will tell you that in fact the programme must meet two criteria, that the program must have artistic standards, that it must be in some way even avant-garde, that it must be ahead of its time, that it must offer the public more than the standard, than what the audience is used to on one side. And on the other hand, it must still be in tune with the audience and that it must meet the requirements of the audience. What seems to me to be a particular problem is the fact that we always feel like we have to choose between those two criteria. It seems to me that this gap should not be entered and that the theatre today, especially because there are theatres with different programme guidelines, that we do not have to enter into that gap between these two legitimate requirements. So a request for artistic, pronounced artistic quality, on the one hand. And on the other hand, what the audience expects of us. The fact is, theatre programs are expensive. And it is in this area that we are entering into a problem if there are in Croatia today a sufficiently high-quality cultural management that can be realistically planned, affecting the founder to get enough money for this programme and, of course, make sure that other funds are obtained from different sponsors. So, the theater itself, the ensemble, the group, in any case, is being financed in an adequate manner. Therefore, I think it would not be bad in some way to demystify this programme of public needs in the theatre, in culture, and that it should still be a little more flexible, a little more liberal. Especially because our theatres today, so the theatres in Croatia are not privatised, and in many parts we act as if they are, as if they are on the free market and the same, and apparently, this law has that ambition, too, we started treating theatre artists in the same way. For this reason, I would also say that not all actors can be treated equally, and that the fact that there are 10 actors in Croatia today, perhaps more exposed to the media, does not mean that those others who have very much, that the rest of them do not do their job quality within the home. That's how it is, for example. One respected actress on the cover of a magazine stated that she could not accept the main role in her home because right now there she is recording and playing a major role in one of the soap operas. I think that's actually the kind of speech that led to the need to find a solution to such circumstances, so the actors are still more attached to their house, or by a contract to a specific project. And on the other hand, when the project, when it is, when after a certain performance, it is possible to engage on other projects. However, this does not mean that we should generally introduce in this profession one existential uncertainty, since it does not exist in other cultural activities that have some touch points with theaters. I also said at a committee meeting yesterday that the situation seems to be similar to that of music activities. So, that musicians can also be visiting, that they can be engaged in other projects, but that we didn't put them under the bat but simply now, of course, because it's the Law on Theatres now we're talking about actors. So I don't think it would be good if what we didn't end up in terms of a cultural policy, in terms of normity, so at the state level, I don't think it would be good to treat certain activities in such a partial way. I think it's actually part of the mosaic, part of a total picture and it wouldn't be good then theater and all those cultural artists in that space to treat in a special way. The fact that more than 50% of theatres, unfortunately, are non-profitable, is therefore that I do not think that the causes of this problem should be seen not only in the situation of sub-financing from the founders, in the situation of certain waste, but also in so doing that we as a state make one effort in further education of cultural management which will enable therefore to plan in a quality way on one hand. But on the other hand, to the public, to finally explain to the public in a quality way that the cultural programme costs and that the cultural programme must meet different criteria, and in this sense to discuss whether this or that singer can or cannot be engaged in one national house, I think that they are extremely bad and I think that they make us choose between artistic qualities and requests of the audience, and that in fact enough theatres and theatre groups, and also theatre projects in Croatia enable each user, that anyone who wants to look at something in the theatre can. And in that sense, I don't think that it should be specifically restricted from one side to what we consider to be artistic achievements in relation to what would be a programme for a single cross-country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50644	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues, it is incorrect for us to talk about this bill only to talk about actors. It's incorrect. Read article 41 and article 44 where collective artistic bodies of orchestras, choirs, ballets and dances are spoken of and so on. You need to read the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50646	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50647	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are the efforts in their debate to connect everything that happened on the Committee yesterday but with, and what happened today in the debate and what we had opportunities to listen to from fellow MPs most often from the SDP so far. Well, first of all, I would like to commend the Ministry which has come out already with the draft proposal on the website and thus familiarise the entire interested public for the draft proposal itself and for everything that this draft proposal brings to a new one or as a newspaper in front of theatre staff and the same after the proposal for a bill was passed on to the Government again, the bill puts it on the website so that all those interested can continue to follow it in such a form. So one complete transparency of the Ministry in proposing this law without mentioning what is already mentioned here in the debate. Over 40 meetings with professional representatives or 20 ministerial meetings. So one big and broad debate, first of all the expert debate that was being held around the bill's proposal, is behind us. And no one today, no one today has the right and can tell because it's a lie that someone doesn't want to allow someone or that someone is preventing someone from making their point of view of this bill especially out of the profession. So it's a complete lie. What I said earlier disproves all such incorrect and malicious allegations. Actually, what's the problem? Who makes the most noise and why when it comes to this proposal for a law on theater? So above all, they make noises and make noises to those who, by the basis of this Law, may lose some authority and who may lose some of the positions they have had so far. I'm referring specifically to the intensities. I also come from this profession, not directly from the theatre but from music art and I led one of the festivals that has national status and I know what games are led not to look back at what happened yesterday. I don't want to look back on it either, in the city of Zagreb, because it's too clear to me, but I want to say that the biggest noise really is the ones that are going to get one supervisory body in some way. Is this where the biggest dispute seems to me about what the Administrative Council is doing? And the Administrative Council does what is stated in this Law. And these functions of the Governing Council can indeed not be called management but supervisory, supervisory functions. So it seems to me that it may first be necessary to resolve the question of whether the body it manages is because it is obviously not intended by the legislator to create a body that will manage instead of an intensifier or instead of a director of the theatre, but rather clearly, the body that will be the bond between the founders and which will in some way oversee the work of those who manage the theatre. The fact is that this relationship between the director and the business director may not be sufficiently clearly defined. In any case, the opinion of the profession is that it is necessary to make it more clear that the applicant is superior to the business director and that such matters are not left to the statutes. Therefore, this Law should see the possibility of including such a kind of proposal that will regulate this relationship very clearly. And it is quite clear that the Indentator should be the main and responsible person in the national theatres just as it seems clear to me, it was said yesterday, that it would be good for him to remain in the national theatres alone, and in the other theaters to be the director. This seems to me a condescending proposal because we all associate individuals with the national theatre and national theatres and, in that sense, I personally suggest that this issue be regulated in this way. Furthermore, I will speak what the profession itself has actually spoken as perhaps indeterminates to get into the minutes and to get the representatives of the Ministry to decide on that as well. In Article 14, paragraph 3 does not specify whether the opinion of the Minister of Culture on the termination of the work of the theatre is binding or not? This is such a grudge from the profession, or indeterminateness in which theatre officials themselves have asked, however, for that opinion to be binding in some way. That's their attitude, I speak the position of theatre employees, artists because they don't want to, they personally don't want the decision to stop working on theatres to be left to local self-government alone. Further in Article 24, as I have already said, their view is that the applicant only applies to national theatres and that the other theatres are managed by directors. Article 30 also requires that, in some ways, it be clearer, clearer, more precise, and that theatre artists do not actually write that theatre artists can act in a way that is previously written with the consent of the ingenuity or director. So it should just seem to me that this is a nomotechnical correction and that should be appreciated. No, not only can I do theatre work but it's still an art engagement because it's also said about the director. Therefore, with the consent of the Governing Council, the director may act in art, and then, quite clearly, theatre artists can continue to act in art. In Article 35, they propose to kick out public policy families. That's their proposal. It is their suggestion that theatres themselves decide whether someone in this case is in a conflict of interest in theatre groups or not because there are positive examples of practice. One part concerning the protection of artists was also discussed on the Committee. I must say that I am at the stand that should primarily protect those artists who have a longer art internship behind them. It is necessary to determine which year it is and should be more concretely determined according to the possibility of auditioning. Because it really is not appropriate when a renowned artist wants to engage in an equally reputed theatre like the Croatian National Theatre, that he is brought into a position to audition the beaches. Indeed, all of us in practice know that it is just formal, probably ok, but because of nature itself and because of the desire to actually engage what is best in Croatia, I think in such situations it would be desirable to leave one possibility that the audition is not mandatory, except in cases where perhaps the council, the intendent is determined, and that is the most often should be when receiving new young artists, so those who have not yet proved themselves in theatres or generally in art. So here I think that there, there should be more precise determination to these positions of profession and generally so that profession is the opinion that there is one law that will better regulate all these problems that exist. And certainly, as no law is perfect, neither will this one be perfect nor will it be able to regulate all situations to detail. But of course, this law is an improvement compared to what we've had so far and a kind of governing council institute that will be a bond between founders and those who manage theatres. I think that this way it will work better because there is no reason to doubt the selection of people who must be respected artists, respected cultural workers. So people who know what theater is, who know what problems arise when the theatre works. And another thing, there's very few theaters that can do business without loss, but that's another story again. I congratulate all artists, theatre artists who have kept that art at one high level in Croatia and all the other artists who have advocated, even in difficult times, especially when giving a higher meaning to this real picture and this reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50648	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50649	It is incorrect to quote counterpart Matusic that the administrative council does not have administrative but supervisory functions. A lot of things would be avoided in this confrontation, if we could call it that, if that were the case. After all, the proposer would probably use the Board of Supervisors' Syntagma, not the Administrative Council. I don't think that's by any chance, that both the promoter and the Syntagmic himself expressed the essence of what should be the administrative council under this law. The second thing you said was that the intendant should be in charge of the business director, which I agree with, but the fact is that this law does not result, but rather vice versa. And there's this second disputed moment. I mean, if those moments were as regulated as you say, we'd probably all agree on this right now. So these are incorrect allegations, because the law says otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50650	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50651	It's nice of you to congratulate the theater people who've held out. Once this law is passed, if adopted as proposed, it will not be successful. You're saying that the highest, biggest noise has been raised around this bill by those who are afraid to lose their current powers. I don't know what you are, what you've been following in public. Most of all, you're making noises about it, most actively involved in the debate over this law, for example. Mrs. Vitomira Lonchar. She runs your private theater. She started her own theater. And this law does not apply to it at all. And the lady here got involved to help the ministry because she knows something about it, because she's been doing it for years, because she's proven that private entrepreneurship at the theater can succeed and work well, and she wanted to help. And she's telling you that this is all wrong together and she's one of the loudest, and she won't lose anything by this law. But you have no idea who's involved, that's why you're saying that. You're saying it's not the proposer's intention to run the board. Have you then read what is written in the law? Well, that's what the board of directors say, it says, and now you're saying, the end of what it says is that the administrative councils are managing, it's not the purpose of the promoters to manage. So what's the proposaler's intention? So what do I intend to propose rather than be the way he wrote it? So that's what we're arguing about. Well, that's what we keep saying. That what it says isn't right, that it's illogical, that it's illogical, that it won't be able to work by it. And it won't work. And this is evil for the theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50652	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50653	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Stazic. I am very familiar and I know that Vitomira Loncara, a working lady, has her own private theater, advocates certain changes and considers the law as she considers it, that's her right, that's her right. On the contrary, you have the Croatian Association of Drama Artists who gathers hundreds of Vitomir Lončar, Mr. Stazic. Or employees, a union of cultural workers who gather thousands of Vitomir Loncar. Well, it is not a Vitomir Lončar measure for theatre art in Croatia, regardless of how much I appreciate its work. What are you guys talking about, fellow Stazic? And read what the Governing Council really does in Article 21. Read what he's really doing. Read what he really does and what the minister said was his intention and what he said. Why the administrative council? Because according to the Law on Institutions, the Institute of Administrative Councils has been established, not supervisory councils in cultural institutions. So what's the problem with the other directors of the institution's culture board, and who's the problem? Who's that bothering? It bothers your head, Mr. Stazic. It bothers your head, that your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50654	Second Replic, Honorable Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50655	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can agree with Mr. Matusic's debate. I particularly support Article 14 where a decision on the termination of public theatres can be made by the founder with, I would also say, a binding opinion of the Minister of Culture. Because in the past, we've had some professional theaters shut down, so it's a little rough after the '90s. a renewed example of Požega and a successful theatre. I'd also refer to the board of directors. There were a lot of speeches here today, and a colleague also mentioned the board of directors. The organisation and management of theatres is in accordance with the Law on Institutions and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture and all institutions in culture have administrative councils. So I don't see the fear of administrative councils in the theater where they say that public theatre and the public theatre family are managed by a board of directors who have so many members from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers. However, what reminds me here and perhaps so much fear exactly and therefore, because in our recent past I remember in 2000 when during the night they were changed in the health care board of hospitals, so Mr. Goran Granic explained to us that it was working, to replace unprofessional professionals, so Mr. Padoban from one hospital was replaced as unprofessional professional. I believe that we will no longer have such examples in Croatia and that in the administrative councils we will work very hard, as is the proposal in the law. Reputable artists and public workers and will guarantee representative bodies their work and management of theatres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50656	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50657	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm invited to this, in fact, to what Mrs. Maria Byte said, I'm going to say something I wasn't going to say. And I'll tell it to the public. Today, those who advocate expertise in institutions in culture, whether it is the Croatian National Theatre, such as the word or other institutions. These same parties, therefore, have their members sitting here today, and the legislators of such a law have made it possible for cultural institutions to be led by people with medium professional training. It is such a shower of culture, the reputation of culture in Croatia as it is unimaginable. Why? Because these same institutions are also employees who must have high professional equipment, and their director sees wonders, according to the SDP proposal in the former meeting, can be with high school. So where's that? Are you in favour of expertise? For whose expertise? What are these financial experts who can run such institutions with medium professional training? So what are we talking about? I really didn't mean to say this, but he offered me, the course of the debate offered me. This law corrects such irregularities, and such truly insane situations, as to what to say rather than crazy situations and the demeaning of culture, will be avoided by this law. Because under your law, that would be possible. That would be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50658	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50659	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday and today, but in the past few months in the bill, three serious doubts, different attitudes and thinking were created by me. It is good that this is the first reading of the law, most likely the legislators will listen to the debate in Parliament and what has been said in the media discussions, and by the second reading, the law will be corrected in those parts that have not been good so far. The first question or dispute is who was involved in the drafting of this bill and it is said that practically all the artists of the theatre area had the opportunity to participate in the work. That's right. And even three years ago, different discussions on the subject lasted, but most of those who participated in these talks argue that this text of the bill had nothing to do with what was said in the final talks at the beginning of this year. The Croatian People's Party Club organised a thematic debate on the proposal for this law, which included actors who participated in these expert discussions at the ministry's invitation. And they claim that this text of the law has nothing to do with those conversations they took part in. And Mrs. Vitomira Lonchar and Mr. Zeljko Vukmirica will not lie when they claim that this law does not have such access, as was discussed. So what now? We in the Parliament must be adversaries of two currents, two groups, three opinions, sixteen concepts of theatre because the ministry, or the government, has not made enough efforts to reconcile the different interests of one important profession, profession and activity. We have to re-arbitrate. That was the first dilemma. Another dilemma, who insists, who pushes for the administration councils to be introduced in theatres. Who's behind that push? I know, it's pretty clear to me where it came from, and I'm sure that this concept is strongly supported by Prime Minister Sanader. Namely, as a former theatre indentator, he knows that the theatre's agenda cannot be successful and that the theatre cannot be successful if the theatre does not have a political administrative council. I guess that's the result of a personal experience running the theater. And third, who and why appoints an administrative council? It is interesting that the legislator in the appointment of the Governing Council, rather than overseeing the work of the theatre institution, says so. To appoint a representative body of the founders, i.e. the City Council, the County Assembly or the Municipal Council, and the Administrative Council of the Public Theatre and the Public Theatre Family, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Culture is appointed. Why, now, in one town of Varazdin, the city council must appoint an administrative council, not a mayor, and what is of national importance and the founder of the Republic of Croatia is appointed by the minister himself, not even the Government. We are providing funds for the work of these theatres in the state budget brought by Parliament. The board of directors is appointed by the Minister. The Administrative Council therefore corresponds to the Minister, not to Parliament. And who is this mistrust of local and regional self-government that when we give something that theirs has to go to a representative body, but if it's a matter of state, then it's enough for the minister to make appointments. Is it possible that the minister is worth the same as the 51st councilman of the County Assembly? Or is that how much we don't trust them? Secondly, if the proposal is to have supervision of the financial situation in the theatre, this law can be a lex specialis, why not a supervisory board that oversees the business of the institution if it is money. Why does the Minister of Culture propose to the Government that the appointment of the Director should not result in the supervision of the business but rather in the administrative council which is managed and in whose jurisdiction we also give the programme? The programme does not bring ingenuity, but the administrative council on the proposal of the Indentator. So every dilemma about why the administrative council is being introduced is being removed when you see that it governs and that we have given them jurisdiction. And he says that the administrative councils are named from the ranks of prominent artists. I would add a follow-up, preferably from competitive theaters to make sure that the surveillance is done to the end if possible. Hospitals in Croatia have administrative councils named the founders and two billion kunas are at a loss. We're going to replace the board of directors for these losses. Who's to blame for the hospital's losses? The board of directors? Very good. Let's move on. Intent and business director of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb and the National Theatre Ensemble appoints and resolves the Government on a proposal from the Minister, but the indent and business director of other national theatres appoints and resolves the representative body of founders, city council, municipal council, county assembly. So that's where we go to the representative body again, but when it comes to national institutions, then there are ministers or government. So why again such a huge mistrust to the local or so terrible trust of the Minister and Government to the same people, institutions whose work is financed from the budget of the Republic or the County or the City. Which is why such a different approach when it comes to the appointment mechanism especially in the administrative councils. And I'm done with the next one. It is not disputed that someone who provides money has the right to control and control and timely intervention if something is wrong. But do you really believe that this mechanism is being realized through the administrative council run by the institution and not by the director appointed by the government? Do you really believe that we can achieve control when it comes to innovative cultural experts, without pre-skilling them for financial operations, or that theaters must be exclusively financed from the budget, and that their exit to the market and... would not be allowed on the market because business and money from cultural institutions are not prescribed and prohibited and ordered to exclusively from the budgets they must exist. And when you put something on the market, those institutions need to be justified by the one who's capable of making money, who isn't waiting for a 12th sign from the Treasury, but who goes out on the market and makes money with his programs. So they don't need administrative councils that give parties and parties, but they need capable managers to provide funding. And that is why we will not support it, nor will we support this bill in the first reading because it has not resolved the basic doubts that stand in the light of why it is being brought. Control that, not managing through administrative councils and allow culture, the theatre to be what can and must exist on the market, regardless of whether it is the founder of municipalities, the city, the county or the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50660	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50661	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Lesar said that the governing councils are political bodies, but the structure and management of the theatre must be in accordance with the Law on Institutions and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture, and in Article 20. The proposal on the board of directors says that there are 3 or 5 members, most of whom are appointed by the representative body of the founders from the ranks of prominent artists and cultural workers, and the other members from their ranks are selected by the artistic staff of the theatre, or theatre group. And also saying that the ministry, or the Croatian government, has not put sufficient effort into the law, it is incorrect because it is a hard effort to talk to the profession, and that is why the law is now in the first reading. Until the second reading and the profession and we advocates with our remarks can correct and remove the misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50662	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50663	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the false assumption that the theatre can't be successful if it doesn't have a strong, politically strong council right now. Well, I think it's enough to send his actors and the singers to the theater for a stay, hire the Norther's income, and tomorrow's even more profitable Ceca. I'm sure you'll be praising the sky soon, right, the administrative non-political council of HRT. Clearly, out of gratitude for the splendor of the left political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50664	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50665	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm glad Mr. Lesar pointed out a lack of character as well. I'm glad you held a public hearing, but I'm asking that, apart from Vukmira and Vitomira Lončar, was there anyone else because you only mentioned them. I'm glad you know more than we do because you claim the Prime Minister is personally behind these solutions. How did you get that information, even from HDZ, it wasn't. So you do know more than the others. And now that we're... Well, now that Kramaric knows nothing about it, and he's in the ruling coalition, here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now let's move on. Look, around the national theater, I can't agree with you. The very expression of the national theatre speaks enough about itself, it can't be a theater on the market. Because through such theaters national, so that's, you know what national means? The National Theatre, there is both tradition and culture and everything else. And don't mix the national theater with Severin and these shows all over the place. That's what these other theaters are for. And it can't be on the market like you say, because then it won't be a national theatre, it'll be a market theater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50666	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50667	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, there were quite a number of people present and serious, and who I won't account for, but I will remember, and we will call you in the future for our thematic discussions to help you formulate attitudes. I did not claim that I was sure that the President of the Government was behind the request for a board of directors, but I said "it seems to me". I think so. And in the end, I think that Miss March has the best marketing in this country, because after singing, shooting art films and acting in theatre, there's a national parliament in the context of the theatre discussing her case. So you'd be praying in the future, you know, to see who's running that nature's marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50668	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50669	If I've come to a good understanding of the opposition from my fellow MPs about who's setting up for whom, who's being replaced by whom, then there's the board of directors now somehow as one political control assumed. So I would ask you, Mr. Lesar, why in your last government meeting you allowed an indent of the Croatian National Theatre set up by your government to make such losses. No one's replaced him unless I'm wrong. But it was done by the minister in the government's new council meeting without a board of directors. And when the administrative council arrives, it will likely be able to help prevent such situations. So, sins are from your past, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50670	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50671	First of all, I did not make proposals but problemted the offered solutions to the boards of directors and accepted the request for supervision and then said it was a matter of the supervisory board, not of the board of directors. You keep referring to the Law of Institutions. I know what it says. I've worked and implemented it for a long time, but there are also so-called, special laws, or the Law of the Area, lex specialis. What's the problem if we just want to put surveillance in theaters, then let's say so. And secondly, why wasn't someone removed in the last term I don't know, I wasn't in the Parliament, but believe me, if it was our man, our minister ran that area would have been removed and if I had been in the Parliament he would have asked to be replaced by the loss-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50672	Dear Representative Marijan Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50673	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's really a lot of things going on here. I think the greatest value of this, though, has proved that even some topic in the field of culture can certainly burn down the engines of parliamentary representatives and discuss it this harshly in the morning. Which just says that yet one large part of us here sees this not only as a topic in the field of culture but as an eminent political topic. Whether it's good or not, that's another thing. Every smart government and every smart policy was always interested in culture. It's just a question of how and for what purpose? So, what was the intention? Is the intention of some policy when it talks about culture, when it puts it into focus its attention, or the development of culture or the intention of God not to manipulate culture. So, the link between culture and politics, if you're going to look at both culturally and historically, etc., is not exactly news. And politics often knew how to bend or try to bend culture into its car, understanding it sometimes as a driving force that would pull that car in a direction that didn't have to be in the interest of culture, but in the interest of some current, current or dominant policy. I'm saying, no news or this is no charge. I speak in principle. So, the fact is that politics can have a beneficial and destructive effect on the area of culture. Ours would be a common interest here, regardless of what different policy options are, what's good for them and what's good for us to think differently that we, like here, have an important political body, the most legislative body in this country, when we talk as politicians about culture, try to act beneficially on that culture or in the interest of culture, not some of our partial, current, limited and transient objectives. It's no secret that the theater has a special place and in that way to say what I know in some setting of every city, I'm from Split. The fact is that the heart of that city was often beating in its history right through the theater. So it can be said that often the heart of a nation could beat through a theater when it did not know elsewhere and could not possibly beat some rhythm that would keep a nation alive. And let's not be surprised what it is then that maybe we as politicians are also sensitive when we talk about politicians, doubting that it may not be some traps that politics should fall into in order to say in Dalmatia in the trap. This culture in the trap of politics and being used, raped by that policy. What caused any confusion or dissension here? Well, that's clear now at least by now, I don't know what's going to happen next, but it's really a question of the role of the board of directors and business directors. That's the fact that I think here is kind of the most misunderstanding, and even from the ranks of position and opposition, it's been heard. A colleague says, "The Governing Councils are because, according to the law, their function is not to govern." But that's the law, and it says that they're running theaters right now. It's to keep an eye on things like that. Obviously, you'll have to explain it for another reading. Or at least lead to that level to avoid suspicions that the administrative council should be extended by a vulgar policy or policy in the most vulgar sense of the word. What is a business equator compared to an intensifier? We've all experienced theatres through intensities. That's a fact. And it's well known when it's said, "That was during that intention." The intensifier stamped the theater. That's a fact. Now the dilemma comes first. In this regard, a business director and an intensifier were placed in the same plane. What's a little bit of that to say ears or habits? The one who deals with finance should be at the same level as the one who deals with the artistic part of the operation of the theatre, the program, the selection of plays and so on because he spends a lot of theatre. But my colleague Matušić, I think, said, "Well, it's rarely a theater, which the theatre can do with a win." I don't think there's an audience crisis in Croatia in theatres, but we really can't even see the theater as a factory that creates some new value that would be tangible, so it was carried home in bags after the show. Because theater is a normal thing when you come out of a play if it's good, then what you get is some kind of spiritual, etc. The nature of not telling you what we all know now. It is not quantifiable or even sold cards sometimes because we have historical examples when the later operas have failed are the most famous and so on. Well, it didn't mean anything to them the first time the audience looked at them, she didn't accept them and so on. I just want to say that when we talk about theater, we're talking about something complex. A very prominent Croatian theatre critic said, he probably tried to paraphrasise in a way... Some parallel with that Orson Wells movie "The Third Man" and he said, "Now he's "the seventh man." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why the seventh man? If the Administrative Council has, and may have 5.5 members of all these 5 are ahead of it says so. Because they're, they're gonna tell him he can't do that play because you can't take this, what he can't. Yes, a colleague can do that, their function is very significant. He says in the logic of the day-to-day theater, and the business director will be able to do that, put that kind of barrier on him. So there's six of them in front of him. The Intentant is the seventh man. That man who was a personification, a symbol, a sign all day would say brand theater becomes a seventh man. And that's where the simplest thing comes from is whether the intensifier will be able to decide the way he's decided in that artistic, program dimension in the theater, or tomorrow we'll remember theaters by collective leadership really and not by intensity. Because the rest of it will take off its responsibility for the possible failure of the barrier that came from this Law and it is called the Administrative Council and the Business Director. Otherwise, it's good to talk about this, and it's good to fight. I may not think in some things, and that's a good thing, like the others, and especially I wouldn't vulgarize things about a lady called a woman named a woman. No matter what, no matter what, I don't think she did, she didn't deserve to be kind of unworthy of this body talking about her. Is it, and if we don't talk a lot about finding a lot of examples from the past, not talking about finished academics, this and that and so on, and how many in the history of those, still politicians are the best example. And what do you think about breaking the law that you have to have a college to be a politician? I'm not making a parallel with the theater at all. How many people would fall to the expense of politics and how much I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50674	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague said he was administrative, talking about administrative councils so that they would be an extended arm of vulgar politics. So the proposed Article 20 of this Law does not speak of it because it says that the Administrative Council has 3 or 5 members, most of whom is appointed by a representative body, founders from the ranks of prominent artists and workers in culture, and the other members of its ranks are elected by the artistic staff of theatres, which does not speak about politicisation, and all institutions in culture have administrative councils, so I don't know why the fight against administrative councils in theatres is so great, and the Croatian people have been known throughout their history, so let it remain and continue to agree with their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50676	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would try to talk from a very different dimension which almost has little to do with what we've talked about here, noting that it's very good to talk in the Assembly about professional problems, but it's very bad if in the Chamber of Professional Problems we talk about longer than within the profession of professional problems. As it seems to me that there have been a lot of contributions of that kind here, it's kind of hard for me to start without this comment. First, let's all understand one thing. They don't all have theater laws. Yes, of course. The Law on Theatres as far as I know west of Croatia has only Slovenia and Norway. What does that mean? This means that it immediately leads to some arguments that the Law on Theatres can solve what is otherwise not resolved in theatre life, i.e. What people can't solve, what responsible people with some responsible policy can't solve can't even solve the law. That's how it's gonna be easy to show it in turn now. First, when there was a need to pass a new law, and there was a new one in the previous term, then it was like this, there's a problem that theaters can't function because they have 5 hundred employees, they can't have 501 or because someone else has 30 can't have 31. And so we need the opportunity to have artistic ensembles, actors, singers, etc. They circulate, circulate, fluctuate so theatres can function from a wider artistic resource. It's the meaning of the Law of Theatres. And in performing that, it was meant to provide its own things. One is the flow, as it was said yesterday, of the structure I was talking about. And the second is the protection of these people that unless they work in a permanent relationship they also have certain social and other rights that exist or are close to those rights of employment. And it tried to settle with some other laws, because it can't even be solved in the Theatre Law. This must be settled in the Law on Mandatory Relations, on Mandatory Contributions. This must be settled in the Labour Act, etc., etc. None of this law has been settled, nor has it been touched. But all that was changed, since it was promised to do a new law, which has nothing to do with it, and it was never the subject of the dispute, nor the interest to change. Now let me make this very clear. Instead of the need for a new law, we got an even older law. Why the older law? Because in 1997, the President of the Republic of Mr. Franjo Tudjman had just amended the law that spoke about the administrative councils in a way that said in Article 22: "The theatres with the status of national theatres are managed by the applicant and the other public theatres are managed by the Director.", etc., etc. Why? Because then it went right to the principle that the theatre is an individual and that the individual represents that theater. So that's why we remember the history of the theatre in the history of the type of Miletic, the type of George Para, God and the type of Tarbuk, that's what I'm going to go back to. When that's not the case, it's not the politics that governs the theater, it's the bureaucracy that runs the theater. Because this is how to throw everything back into the gray, to sort of take off that individuality that carries the theater and remembers the theater. So now we have a situation that the indent is, like someone said, one or the one in a row, but that doesn't matter either. He's, uh, someone mentioned the ship, so I'm gonna use that metaphor. He's a non-smurder on board, he's the first of the sailors and the last of the officers, if he even made it to the officer. Who doesn't know what non-smurder can say, it's a bocvan, so that's the middle of a belt that can't have real support, where everyone can put difficulties ahead of him, and even those behind him will complain that they don't represent them and that they can't actually carry out certain common demands. When it comes to the Law on Institutions, it has nothing to do with the issue of administrative councils in theatres. There are administrative councils in the institutions, but there are also expert councils. When the debate began on how the new law should be held then the ensembles asked for some role in the functioning of different theatres and then something which could then be much easier to call an art council than a board of directors. The board of directors didn't ask for anyone. They were removed from the first system in the '80s to come up with some individuality and therefore to the one who is the indent and we trust him to be an indent. What one can do, can't be solved as a subjective relationship, can't be solved even as a legal relationship. And that naivety, the hunger for laws is characteristic, the characteristic of just saying one form to mildly express political underdevelopment. Many countries don't have many laws that we have, and they have an incomparably better practice, because we don't achieve anything like this by over-nodging. But we're really getting the chance to lock ourselves up in anonymity and to calculate ourselves through anonymity with unanonymous people. I didn't mean to say this, but I can see we're using one argument that's extremely false and unfair. Hello for almost taking, and even those who defend the need to criticise this law consider it a fact, as it is, the minister said this law was passed because of some losses, and then as an example of these losses, Mr Tarbuk and the Croatian National Theatre are mentioned. Now we'll see how Mr. Tarbuk's losses stand. In Mr. Tarbuk's losses they included 4 million unpaid city debt from several years before him. One million and 600,000 fines were included for a break-up of a working relationship that he did not commit, but for those before him. One million and two hundred thousand kunas of VAT are included on otherwise free-distributed tickets. Come on, pick it up. You'll get about six million. That's the loss? Or it was supposed to be someone's fault that we were actually counting on something new to lose. Mr. Tarbuk has marked a new era in this theater lately, as Mr. Paro has well led. It's not the exchangeability of the intensifier. It's the fact that the co-operation of the institutes is a civil rule. When Mr. Paro offered me his resignation in 2000, I said, Mr. Paro, so you're not an intent because you're being appointed by these and them, you're an indent because you're Mr. Paro, so he stayed until the end of the term. And debt comparisons work, to consider one more thing. The Croatian National Theatre has 501 employees, he had one in my time, it's not with the line, but across the line, he can only have 5 hundred. A Budapest opera with no drama, only opera and ballet, has a thousand and six hundred employees. We're talking about debt, we can talk about HNK shortages, and while I'm still telling those who talk a lot about other things and comparisons is next. That Croatian National Theatres have more audiences per year than a total of them are gathered by the First Football League through all the games during the year. That you know that, too. So we're talking about things we don't understand very often. We're changing what doesn't need to be changed, because this is exactly the previous civilization fluid that you gentlemen have brought together when there are a few more academics here who are now gone and a few others who knew something, and you're going back to what we've all fallen off of, in gray management theater through anonymous people that you're going to say in society are prominent public workers. But they're all prominent except for one that can't be distinguished. So it's an intensifier because he's the most indistinguishable. And that is how it shows already the practice of the last two months in which exactly the people who mean something in this Croatia, in this culture, disappear. From Mr. Tarbuk, through Mr. Shutte, Mr. Shipus, Mr. Shaco, etc., etc. Gentlemen, Schneider, gentlemen, it seems that what we have here for some is to defeat mediocrity, because it's such a mediocre law, and this law, it's not even political, it's below the level of some policy, it's bureaucratic, it doesn't need anyone, it's not even a big tragedy that's going to happen except that we're all going to have to laugh at its results that people who don't know anything about it, and they don't even know where it's going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50678	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50679	Well, here's Mr. President, my colleague Vujic, quotes, saying, "Through anonymity we deal with not anonymous." It says here: The representative body is the founder, consisting of founders of the order of prominent artists and cultural workers. If they're respectable, I guess they're not anonymous. Then from the ranks, two out of five, it's the art staff that chooses the theatre. However, your way of thinking, my colleague Vujic, immediately turns a word reputable, so that when we get rid of it, I can say even atavism, you will be able to accept the laws more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50680	Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50681	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't agree with you, colleague Vujic, when you talk about introducing an institution of the board that actually opens up the possibility that red tape is run by a national theatre or another public theatre. It is simply not true, because red tape and now bureaucracy can manage the same national theatre and manage it both in the past term and in the former term, etc. You yourself know that the proposals for a programme of work of these same institutions must come into certain let's say in bureaucratic frameworks. You yourself know who accepts the budgets, who approves the funds and how these funds are approved. I should mention, for example, the case of the Comedy Theatre here in Zagreb, which, by its results, is probably one of the most successful theatres, which are placed on the soul by some debts created for these or those reasons, for political reasons, for bureaucratic reasons. I agree with what you said about Mr. Tarbuk's personality and artistic integrity, which I know perfectly and whose work I greatly appreciate both as a composer and as a conductor. But I'm sure Mr. Tarbuk himself would have been a lot easier to work on the position of the intensifier if he had such a board of directors. I'm quite sure. Therefore, it is clear that current owners, founders of these institutions, cannot monitor the work and activity of these same institutions on a daily basis in a manner that can be done by the administrative council. Not daily either, but it will certainly be much more intensively monitored by the work of these institutions than is now being followed by bureaucratic offices in cities, municipalities, ministries and I don't know where else. Much easier. It would be much easier and much easier for Mr. Tarbuk to deal with the problems he has and it is quite clear that this law will not solve all the problems, we all know what... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50682	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Antun Vujic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50683	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Matusic for giving her the replica and the opportunity to answer. I think the discussion has made more sense. Much has been said about the issue of the Governing Council and of course they can be different opinions. However, I warn that the practice of the board of directors that existed earlier in a system that you and your colleagues and we do not want to inherit has shown all the closure of the theatre. She showed in some way, only great indents could rise to individuality through it, and then they had to look for it in politics as well. I do not believe that there are good administrative councils, and the argument that they want to justify by correcting the situation either financially, either by any other or by analogy by some other institutions is absolutely wrong and in the course of the past, they are not unknown. They were so the law of 97 changed them for the benefit of the Internet. I think that's the first rule that this culture has a name and name. She won't have it this way, and I warned you about the consequences. I could've added someone else, I could've added Bogdanich, I could've added anyone. And as far as Tarbuka is concerned, since you mentioned him, it's really not fair to talk about that man's debts. That's not fair, and it would be fair then to admit how much a step the HNK theatre made during that whole period. I also feel morally obliged to say something in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50684	Thank you very much. The next is representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50685	Thank you very much, Vice President. Gentlemen of the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that something with this law is wrong, because instead of a representative of the Government, that is, gentlemen of the Ministry, this law must defend what is meant by replicas or corrections of the wrong quote by representatives of the HDZ. The ministry gentlemen are sitting here smiling and we haven't heard a single defense of this law coming out of their mouths. It's just something ringing for me at the alarm. In my opinion, this is another in a series of bad documents that this government has recently produced, from a contract with Austria, a proposal for a child's attorney, a health reform, and as it started with the withdrawals, I recommend that you also withdraw this bill from the procedure. From all the debates during today and yesterday we see and from theatre circles we see that, apart from the Ministry of Culture, no one is satisfied with this law, no actors, no directors, no intentants, no theatres, or units of local self-government, which, in essence, finance theatres, so I wonder who this law was written for in the first place, whether for the profession or for the ministry itself. In my opinion, this is an attempt to centralize as well as with all the laws that have been coming to our benches lately. Everybody just give the money to the state register, and you'll get back as much as the people in the ministry are in the mood. All state-owned companies have headquarters in Zagreb. We have a refinery in Rijeka where Ina is based in Zagreb, means you have an ecological bomb, and we have money in Zagreb. Tax bonds also pay for culture. From the state budget where the finance minister boasted that it was very visible and visible how anything from the budget was financed, I see in the Ministry of Culture the theatre and musical-student activity 35 million. We don't know by what basis or by what criteria money will be shared in theatres. I think that this is how centralization is conducted in culture, because how do you explain that the ministry will only finance one theatre in Zagreb, and the other three have to finance the units of local self-government that have done it so far without talking about donations. I can talk about donations and payment of another state to the Rijeka Theatre. Well, isn't it a shame that the other state is funding with more money one theater than its home state? Apparently, the other state recognized the specifics of the Rijeka Theatre, which is unique, traditionally rich because it has Italian drama as a national treasure in its programme. That is, the theatre lives the liquids of a multicultural and multi-ethnic space full of tolerance and co-existence. And as someone here used to say today, it's not the achievement of this law. This is liquid from the last state. Although it is only a theatre in Rijeka that engravings the entire Primorje-Gorski County, as well as other neighbouring counties. As for the introduction of administrative councils that have been spoken about today, a political desire for control arises. So it would be good if it were financial control and everyone would agree with it, but this will be political control because we also see through the bill to say "from the order of prominent artists and workers and cultures". Now, the notion of whether anyone is a prominent and well-known cultural worker from my point of view can be 1, and from your 2. What are the criteria of evaluation and how the reputation of a cultural worker is measured, I would also be interested in it. So far, the same indent has been elected in local self-government units and has been selected on the basis of his programme. If we only have the financial aspect as the primary one now, it means that the person who may have given his program at the beginning, he won't be able to implement it. And on that basis, of course, the administrative council will be able to replace such an indent because it did not carry out what it had promised at the very beginning. The proposal for this Law on Theatres, which introduces administrative councils with very, very large powers, which are regulated in Article 21, in fact raises the credibility of the Institute because it only formally manages the Theatre. According to us in IDS, the administrative council is which manages and manages national theatres. Although this Law regulates the appointment of members of the Governing Council in this Article 20, it is expected that, instead of indeed, the cultural public will be members of the boards of directors. Like that, we've already had a bad experience with the 95's board of directors, and now we're going back to 95's and something that was bad. Now we reintroduce as the Institute of Culture Management. Of course, we see that through this the role of intensities is reduced, as well as the business director whose roles may indeed be commendable because they will try to work on the basis of good financial results. Today it was also heard that Article 18 listed national theatres, but because something is listed as a national theatre does not mean that it will be. It seems to me that the national theatres mentioned are just one dead letter on paper. There may still be an indirect question for the theatre, but just as perhaps only one theatre will be financed so far through the form of funding only some events in Croatia such as Dubrovnik Summer Games or Split Summer Nights, and I don't know, Varazdin Baroque Evenings or Rijeka Summer Nights. So there's no funding for that at the Ministry of Culture. It also proves that from the Ministry of Culture is selective, but of course without the criteria of access and that for some there is money and not for some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50686	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First came from Jagoda colleague Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50687	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I just don't know where to start because this whole exposition of a colleague is one big false allegation. Namely, I must say, your exposure revealed that you don't know the matter at all. First, national theatres that remain as they are, and I see no reason to doubt that article because otherwise we don’t need the law at all. They've been very co-financed so far. Programmes of national interest were co-financed, and this is very logical and normal and big money went and going today. And in Rijeka, and in Osijek, and in Split. Namely, the great under quotes, within the scope of opportunity. That's the first one. Secondly, when you say no one is satisfied with this law, you obviously know more than the rest of us. You're the one who said that, nobody's anybody. I'd be interested in who, because I was here saying the facts and the details of who was working on this Law and whose opinions and attitudes from the profession were taken into account and put into account in this bill. You've told someone and, or no one, and it's so impersonal that obviously...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50688	My colleagues, I'm sorry, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50689	I'm sorry. I wanted to say more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50690	We have to respect. Next up's a colleague of the Czecho.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50691	I thank my colleague for mentioning the Varazdin Baroque Evenings, but the truth is, they receive funds from the Ministry of Culture as well as all other national, national cultural events. With baroque evenings being the only Croatian cultural event in the Council of Europe catalogue. Of course those funds could be bigger, and I agree with that, and I hope they will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50692	Thank you very much. With individual discussion, we move on. Next up is MP Antun Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50693	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And I recognized here in this discussion of ours, in this one last night, so today, a few of the main questions that we are facing. That's the question that's been going through all along, on the one hand and on the other, who was involved, who was helping the government in this proposal. In fact, who suggested that the government come out with a proposal like this before us. On the one hand, information is received that most of these proposals were adopted, on the other hand, and we, and I participated in such a debate where most of them were said not to have been accepted. I'd like to, all the time, our government representatives are sitting here, so I'd like to say what they adopted, accepted, and what they didn't accept from that three-year debate in their proposal. I mean, you haven't shown yourself at any time and it would be very good if the debate was going that way, to tell us if it's 20%, 5%, 3%, or I don't know how much. How much you've accepted, how much you haven't accepted. And to clarify that question, who has been involved in this three-year development of this bill. That's the first question. The second question, the whole time, raises the question and which fellow Matesic has been repeating all along and says that the administrative council will monitor the work. That's not how this proposal says it. This proposal says there'll be a 3-authority. That he will be, he says, "the manager, the intensifier is leading, and the administrative council is in charge." It's a rather complicated situation where when it's put into reality, it's impossible for it to work that way. In particular, since the powers and competences of each other are not defined at all and I do not know how this troupe could function in practice, and the question arises whether such an Administrative Council will be an extended arm of policy. It doesn't say here, it says in the Bill's proposal who will be appointed to the Administrative Council, and as soon as the possibility is left, we know that in practice it will most likely come about with it, and why? Because it is said that 3 out of 5 members, most of whom are appointed by the representative body of founders in the order of prominent artists and cultural workers, and this same Administrative Council needs to control the things that I think are incompatible in this way. The Founder has an interest in controlling finances, but here it is given to the founder to control the program, and the program is directly related to the finances. It means that the founder controls everything and software policy and financial business. This would mean that politics would directly affect the program, and that would not have the purpose of having it in theatres, and these people who are appointed by politics, if we look at what's been called and how it's been called the administrative council, then let's say the one who would be in charge of drama, who would be responsible for part of that program policy, he could be the man who's the biggest drama he's ever seen in his life, it was, like, the Chuckovec-Cibalia game, and the one who's in charge of the opera, for example, that would be the second one at the amateur singer's competition, so we put him to be a member of it and he's famous because he was second, and let's say we could put someone who hear about the swan lake think he's a new monster, so he's coming to be a "bird flu" second wave. So let's say either him or Mamic could be put in, and he's respectable, but the question is, what is the Administrative Council going to control, is the program, whether programming policy, whether it's finance? Here they are given the authority to control everything and that's what's worse, which they control the complete work of the theatre, which is the direct involvement of politics in the work. The third thing that I have seen here, and that is to say the appointment of these administrative councils, and I cannot possibly understand that those councils that are, says "members of the Board of Directors of Public Theatre and a public theatre group appointed by the founder of the Republic of Croatia by the Minister of Culture". That's what Mr. Lesar said and pointed out as a problem, I point out why the Administrative Council, if it is already appointed, why does the Administrative Council not appoint the Parliament because the founder is the Republic of Croatia? Why is such trust given to the minister, and the units of local self-government and regional self-government are not allowed to do so? I don't think they're being trusted, and there's a man here who's boundlessly trusted. Then, there's one more thing the national champion also appoints a minister, and they pay that national champion and all the benefits he gets, against which I personally have nothing, though, and I'd be glad to have more national champions, and not just 3 as many as we have. So he's appointed a minister, and we transfer the salary to that theater where that employee, that artist, is employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50694	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one replica, Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50695	Here, Madam Vice President, I actually wanted in this replica to in some way I don't know who to ask, maybe myself to protect myself from these, I have to say to me inappropriate qualifications in the part of my colleagues' exposure when he talked about what kind of experts should be for drama, opera or ballet or what in that Governing Council. I have to tell you because you really doubt that there are no people in this Croatia whose expertise is theatre, artistic, cultural, or must it be your Mamic and I don't know who you mentioned it all? I really wouldn't talk that way, because I want to protect all those people who will potentially come into these cultural councils and who will certainly have prerogatives for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50696	Thank you very much, colleague. Replication response. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50697	I thank my colleague for going to warn me this way, because it's true, my colleagues, I have no doubts about the expertise and qualifications of our cultural employees. However, I believe that we have beautiful people, capable people, quality people, but I also know what experience on the ground is in the appointment of administrative councils, hospitals and other institutions where we have appointed from politics to some administrative council.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50698	Thank you very much. Agent Byte, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50699	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague said that the administrative council has a direct involvement of policy in work which is incorrect, because in Article 21. We have a proposal for a law on exactly what the Administrative Council is doing and what its competences are. This is on the proposal of the Institute, i.e. the Director, confirms the programme of theatres, oversees the implementation of the programme and its financial and staff implementation, examines and adopts the programme and financial report of the Institute, the Director, decides on the financial plan and the annual accounting, with the consent of the founders, adopts the Statute and other general acts of the Theatre, proposes to the Founder and the Indentator, or the Director of Change in the Organisation of the work of the Theatre, gives the Founder and the Indentator an opinion on certain issues and performs other tasks provided for in the Law and Statute, and I would also say, by means of the expertise of members, possible members of the Governing Council, indeed went a little below the level of this Croatian Parliament, because Croatians are not an uncultural people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50700	Thank you very much. The word is from the Ministry's representative, State Secretary Dr. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50701	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely surprised, but also in some way pleased that the Law on Theatres has brought about debate and interest because it is not characteristic of the Law on Culture, as it has been observed, and the questions that have arisen in the debate and I am easily answered, because I am now in charge of the circumstances of 7 years in the same ministry and I can talk about all the events that were preceded in the drafting and preparation of this Law and in relation to the mandate of the current Minister of Culture, and so on to the mandate of Culture Minister Antun Vujic, so in his time. At the time, at the position of officials, but as legal assistant, I took part in all the public stands organized by the Croatian Society of Drama Artists and at all the appropriate meetings and meetings that were focused on trying to find one structure and answer questions about what and how to propose the new Law on Theatre. At that time, it did not appear even close to the thesis that we do not need the Law on Theatre because I will not repeat the tradition that we have in this segment, but to think about how to improve the legislative framework in order for the theatre to have the opportunity to balance the opportunities of society that can be directed in this direction and then, in accordance with these possibilities, to develop as creatively free the theatre programme as possible and thus satisfy an extremely important public need in the field of culture. On that occasion, I must say, during Mr Vukic, two assistants in charge of the area have changed precisely to theatre music and both assistants have advocated administrative councils in theatres and some solutions that have now found a place in this proposal. Maybe over time, we're all re-enhancing certain arguments and I'm allowing it to be possible. Therefore, these points were expressed by the profession at the time, which are also repeated by the Croatian Society of Drama Artists today. Following this, I find it difficult to list here you know who was all involved in these stands but almost today I can replicate what anyone has said and who has advocated because some people on different topics have always advocated similar solutions from Mrs. Lončar who was mentioned here to other artists who participated and who have not been apostrophe here but have contributed to this debate, which was certainly led in one of the most democratic ways and in the time of Minister Bishop through all visions and meetings and websites, and by being in the end line as well as the method of work of the Ministry of Culture at the time of Mr. Vujic. And I think it was a positive side. In my legislative practice or in my seven-year work, I have not worked on any project that has been so transparent and open to the possibility of proposals. Finally, the possibility and many MPs were preparing for debates from the website theater.hr and could also prepare themselves from this other website. All that says is who was involved in the drafting of this proposal. Of course, and I think it's the minister's undertone in his opening statement that not everyone can come in. Another thing, some proposals that have been heard on committees, the objectivity of an audition or some problems that are really problems of the functioning of the theatre cannot be at all a matter that is regulated by law but possibly by a sublegal act or perhaps even a collective contract because it is related to some exercise of labour rights. In these discussions, gentlemen, it was necessary to resolve that an actor who is employed for a period of time should be treated, for example, as a technological surplus. We know that under the Labour Law or the work of a technological surplus, only one who is employed indefinitely can become. Thus, there have been numerous proposals, well-intentioned ones and certain legislative proposals can be entered into by those contributing to the concept and objective of the law. I hope that the debate that took place should not be continued because it would really be more important to discuss and discuss the content, the proposal, better solutions, and I would also underline something that the minister gave in his opening statement that we do not claim that these are the best solutions. And that's why it's about first reading, about the bill and we're going to accept and we're going to consider every proposed solution that will contribute on one side to balance, someone here has said well the opportunities of society at a certain point that are not small because 200 million kuna for only 4 national theatres from budget funds are not small funds. And also, the funds that only go from the state budget to all public theatres depending on the level of the programme or only those of national interest are financed are not negligible and therefore we have limited opportunities on the one hand and on the other hand we want to ensure, we really want to ensure the freedom of artistic and theatre creation at the highest possible level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50702	Thank you, Secretary of State. Maybe now something's clearer. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Next up is Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50703	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! I will not look back in my debate so much about what has been happening in Zagreb in the last year and with the cultural public especially as regards theatre and with the private shifts that I have managed to list up to five at this time. I'm going to try more to discuss this topic from a broader cancer. Unfortunately, this law was not preceded by the analysis of the catastrophic overall cultural situation of us. More... It was he who realized that depression, primitiveism, hatred that had practically been bothering his beloved French province for ten years since the end of the war could have ended in desolation of France. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He then made a decision ordering the French to wake up culturally, to connect the torn-up culture with their past. It's the only way we could have a future. And France would never preach without the law it imposed on the whole of its territory the establishment of now already voted... Years later, Malroe said he admitted that he had simply borrowed an idea from a polyvalent Renaissance store containing various artistic experiences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The model was naturally the most ambitious and most capillary, Tuscan Renaissance. In fact, Mr. Minister discovered that a medical decree imposed cultural structures that were mathematically related to the number of inhabitants. He then noted that the 1508 decree had not actually been exhausted in its potential. Toscana, which today has 4 million inhabitants, has numerous museums and you would not believe from 176 theatres. What can we say? With us it could be avant-garde, modern containers, often five and six theatre halls, whether for adults or for children, musical halls, halls for experimental film, dance schools. The models are exactly the kind of centers they were talking about back then in the Malroa era, and they don't exist with us today. A big old man... the origins but at the time Degol's Minister of Efforts determined funding as well as significant tax reliefs for administrations and cities that should form permanent troops and programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this was happening in France while in Germany one resident Adenauer explained to the Germans who were still starving that new education would be possible only if the poor German man then gave up bread from his mouth so that he could invest everything in school, education and not believe culture. It was said in his speech in Bundestag on April 4th 54th. And he ordered to build this network of production theaters that today makes Germany the strongest cultural force in the world. But you shouldn't go that far. Slovenians invest in culture proportionally three times more than Croatia. Let us take comparisons for Nova Gorica one extremely modern theatre with 750 seats, 20 actors, 35 technicians and administrations, a total of 55 employees in the city who have 30,000 inhabitants, in which life has completely changed thanks to their theatre. Completing cultural plans for the Novo Mesto region. Completing cultural plans for the region of Novo Mesto Krško will no longer exist in Slovenia as a city that is culturally underrated and below the level. Now let's take a quick look at how things are with us. Istra certainly cannot boast that she has managed to give herself a respectable cultural face. Turning off a few weeks in summer. And Dalmatia in the part to Makarska is barely legal, one is a real cultural desert. Despite all this, there is a huge visit to tourists, which in time will surely decline because the tourism of the type eats and drinks brings a large number of people, but an increasing desolation and less money than cultural tourism. Try to go to Istria or Dalmatia in winter for ten days then the triumph of boredom is secured. It's the same in Dubrovnik. But there's something else in Venice. Why is that? Let's go to Slavonia. What do you say? Not to mention, that we are not talking about Zagreb and its ghettoisation of culture which is reduced to a minimum under inadequate conditions as well as the artistic results that are really becoming more and more discriminatory these days. The whole culture in Zagreb is pushed into something called the city center, but the real center is somewhere else. It's that ghetto. The new Zagreb of 250 thousand inhabitants living the reality of a depressed dormitory. Our centers are here in Zagreb Dubrava, Trešnjevka, which are centers where we should develop culture and theatre. The new Law on Theatres, which is actually proposed, is the conservation of this disaster. It's not an innovative thought, it's not even a mechanism that would motivate hope tomorrow. Isn't it embarrassing that a Budapest owns more cultural infrastructure than the whole of Croatia? Are we preparing to join Europe with such a law? Is it by defending our language by globalisation, ours, to defend our language and our identity? Is that how we defend our diversity? But it doesn't seem to interest Mr. Minister at his chance too busy with landscapes, and too little with the gray interior landscape that the Croats carry inside them from morning to night. This bill proves it. But I want to point out some more dangerous shortcomings that I think are intended in that law. Under 1. Internal advice or so-called The administrative councils represent on the one hand the return of self-government. Practical corporateism. While on the other hand contributing to the centralised control of the financier, external members with all the consequences resulting. On the one hand, actors in the Council will suggest choice of text, division of roles. The directors, and that's where the bitterness we've already experienced will be doing it without restraint on behalf of a phantom ensemble. On the other hand, external representatives will publicise censorship or at best guarantee the implementation of a small civil art policy. And we've experienced this bitter experience before. You should say "no" to the new working advice. And "yes" to the administrative directors appointed directly by the financier. Yeah. And the supervisory supervision that matches the number, but only the number. One commission named superpartes ad hoc by one of the cultural commissioners. The Commission, which will consist of its presence to analyse the annual production of all city institutions. That's exactly how it's done in Germany. We don't need to learn much. The second tragic proposal is the one about the actors' categories. They'd be divided into two groups. To a group of mortals who have a time-limit contract and to a group of divine actors who have been on the acting Olympus for life. Are they aware of the brutal nonsense of this proposal? You should have the courage to read the suggestions that apply to champion actors. Let's go in order and illustrate it. So Franjo Joseph, yes, it was him, the emperor of nearly eighty-year-olds, who went every Wednesday at 5:30 to the Capuchin monastery and there, with the blessing of the friar in one apartment that he personally arranged, met with Katarina Shrat, an Austrian, Austrian, born in Timisvara, his mistress. They've been doing it for almost 20 years. Mrs. Shrat was known for three things: she was fiery in sexual relations, she was an actress in Burktheatre, a very mediocre talent, and finally for being named from His Majesty as a lifelong actress. We advise Mr. Minister who we know is a literary lover of a small book by Milos Cuba, known for this story entitled "Franjo Joseph on Sigmund Freud's couch. She could be of use to him. We don't accept gentlemen acting A and B. We also don't accept the first actor being named at the table as were folk artists by Politburo. It will be seniors or directors who will decide on the height of the salary and their decision will have to respect the will of the audience. In any case, these two proposals, one imperial, and the other distinctly Soviet, make it clear about the current ideology. It's like, like, a fascist steak that's funny with the emperor's will and the Stalinist impulses. Mr. Minister, in this Law, the Pharisees are not planning but a blessing to the right and to the left. It allows itself the right to veto and appointments, conjecture, qualifications. The only thing he doesn't give is money. And love and imagination. But we don't say me just not and we don't feel guilty. And now there's a series of suggestions we're going to make in the second reading of this law that we're not going to support this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50704	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one replica. Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50705	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, look, I had to reach out to the replica institute and tell my colleague he doesn't, unfortunately, know the history of the theater. Not with us, even less in the world. Who do you think Ruži Popiš-Baldani and Dunji Vejzovic, I don't think, has ours so Tomislav Neralić, a singer, say a dozen, twenty in Germany, gave the camerarzing title, which is the biggest, greatest honour artist in the country. Who do you think shares it? Why do you deny the Minister of Culture no matter what his name was and who he belonged to to assign the title of national champion to the profession's proposal? Who's supposed to do that? A referendum of some kind? Politics? That's not true. Everywhere in the world there are such mechanisms that national champions are somehow singled out and I see absolutely no reason not to put it in the law. Why shouldn't it be in the law? After all, we are also very, very statelike, as a country, as a culture restrictive to these titles. We may have five national champions in total. It's very, very little you know? And that's exactly what needs to be encouraged, not suppressed. And the history of theatres around the world, I gave you the very example of Germany has it both in France and in your Malro and in many other peoples where exactly the culture minister who is the top of the pyramid is assumed with all the prerogatives that one culture minister must have just as well, he shares such an honorary title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50706	Thank you very much, colleagues. You have the right to an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50707	Nice, Madam Vice President. Namely, what I was talking about... Just to repeat, what bothers me personally is this huge politicization that's coming back to culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me, let me say what I mean. The second thing that really bothers me is the shifts and the cleanups that have been going on in the last year, and so on. Our greats we have, yes, very little in our country these days are just coming down from a public scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50708	Thank you very much. Let's move on in an individual debate. The next is MP Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50709	Madam Vice-President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening, and I've been following the debate before this assembly debate, so I'm listening to this debate, and I have to admit, do I understand what it says because I'm not afraid that there's going to be any good or bad things with this law. In fact, it's one text that, in the most part, simply rewrites what it says in other regulations. I'll show you later. So, I don't think this law contributes anything special or contributes to a situation that exists, and I find it more interesting as one legal proposal because I would almost say that it partially competes with that famous law on hunting, so I'm going to explain it a little bit. What's the only serious problem is governance. And to stay right now, management is one question. And another very specific question is the question of auditions, and I would like to say, really, when it comes to second reading, I would like this significance of the audition to be highlighted and given the right place. As far as governance is concerned, I think it's very recognizable that 2, 3 years all together, I don't share it, I have to admit it in the party order, we advocate first the administrative council because it seems great to us, and then we see that it's lost personality, and then we advocate a clear pyramid. I must immediately say I am inclined independently to these discussions we are having today, a clear pyramid of the responsibility of the indent. I'm very prone to it, which I'm not against, of course, whether it's called an administrative council or a supervisory council or what you're going to call it doesn't matter. But I don't think the situation where the troupe was actually created is happy for the efficiency of the system's management. I especially think he's going to be in an awkward situation, because by the way I'm at least reading these provisions, really the first figure is the principal. From what it says, I understand business politics that way. But let's go back to the other part that might be here maybe a little bit more interesting to me than other things. First, the question remains, I cannot possibly understand the rate of sharing institutions in theatres and theatre groups, depending on whether someone has space or no space. And nothing in the regime except that I don't know if there's this, there's no serious difference in theater and theatre regime and I think you're unnecessarily complicating the structure for one institution to be called that theater or whatever, that it's enough for what was wanted. Secondly, I think you're very inaccurate in definitions because this turns out that both the Zagreb soloists and the concert directorate are the theatre group, because you say that, excuse me, that theatre groups are legal persons who... to perform stage and music works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that a real definition? You also say that theaters are legal people who prepare and, or organize performances. So it's possible that it's simply an intermediary by this definition. So I'm not sure the definitions are right. Then in article 4.5, you defined these entities as legal persons, but already in Article 6(6), they are not numbered, and it is harder to follow, the 5th you say to the theatre and theatre society that has no legal personality. Therefore, there is clear contradiction and that these three provisions do not go together at all. Then you have, you have a provision, also what a big problem for me throughout the system, I think you have somehow mixed the prerogatives that the state through the law, and even with other institutions can and must have as in some way and the owner, as we say, theaters in relation to those cases when it comes to private institutions. I personally think that the Constitution guarantees freedom of artistic expression and that if someone wants to establish private theatres, the minister has nothing to prescribe whether or not someone will form himself. If it doesn't work, it's over, end of story, right? So I think these previously obtained opinions of the Cultural Council for the Private Theatre are even the opposite of the Constitution. Next you have provisions that actually repeat. Let's just say enroll in the register. Well, of course, if you have an institution or you have a company, you have to register according to the general rules. I don't have to admit I understood the purpose, it's nowhere to be said, what's the witness of the theater for? Maybe he has a purpose, I have to admit I don't see him. Or you have general provisions where you say what funds are for the program, so you say they're salaries, fees, etc. Well, of course, they're general categories. And how much does it make sense to throw in the law? I'm really not sure. Then you also have a provision that at least in the version of the private theater is problematic from the aspect of constitutionality. Article 11: "The Founder is obliged to provide funding for the programme in accordance with the criteria and standards of financing the preparation and public implementation of the programme, which, on a proposal from the relevant cultural council, is prescribed by the Minister of Culture by the Rules of Procedure.". My people, if I start my theater, I'm going to provide those resources I have and I'm going to do that kind of show, and the minister says it's a rule book, and I think it's really unnecessary. So it's my proposal, and otherwise generally, if you can, in norming, you can limit yourself to public, and leave the privates aside because it's something the Constitution guarantees full independence and independence, right? It is also the obligation of the intensifier or the director of the selection guidelines. If I started the theater, and I own it, I'll choose the boss I want, and I can't get any directions from the state to throw it at me. If we're somehow a liberal society, and I hope we are. Also, a decision to stop, you say public theatres can be made by the founder, with the previous opinion of the culture minister. Okay, that's some logic I can think of, but imagine, there's a foundation in Split, the City of Split is setting up a theater for I don't know what, and there's no money and it's going to end it. What does the previous view of the Minister of Culture mean? Or some smaller towns, Virovitica, however, don't want any other theater. What's it for if it's in general if it's appropriate? Also, you have the same, if it is a public one where you say in paragraph 16(3) that, if it does not conclude the contract, they are mutual rights and obligations, they are obliged to provide at least the amount of funds from the previous year. What if it's not in the budget? How? To rob a bank, what to do with securing their assets. So, I think that went too far in norming. Then, I don't understand, if we're already talking about the system, why it's appropriate for all the boards of directors to have representatives of art staff, and the public theatres and theatres do not do so, but the minister appoints. How come there's no representative here? Or maybe I've read something wrong, but it seems to me that it puts the artistic staff of public theaters in an unequal position. It is very clear who the boss is when he says at 22nd and describes that the business director organizes and manages the business and is responsible for the legality of the work. For me, I have to say, it's a questionable solution. I'd like to have, if there was a director of this kind but that it was known to be the first ingenuity. In my opinion, it's also our cultural tradition and custom, but it's a matter of course of choice and policymaking. Furthermore, you have regulations that don't take care of each other. In 33, you speak what general acts it brings to private theatres, but you forgot that you made it possible for companies to do so. Therefore, some of these acts are not responding. The provision for the denunciation of the founding share is unconstitutional. We can seek what we ask the MPs to freeze, or to give up the management of the ownership stakes, but that he must give up his share is something I fear that will not seriously oversee the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, you have a provision, here's a little bit of looking at jumpers, time goes, you have provisions where artists are protected. But they're always connected by formulating can. I'd like some of these protection formulas for artists not to be tied to the cans, but to be decoded. And I suggest you free the minister of the impossible mission. In the 43rd, you told the minister that he would specifically determine which theatre workers are considered theatre artists. Who's an artist if the minister prescribes it by regulations or maybe you're thinking about systematization might be some kind of misunderstanding, but I'm afraid the desire to do so... So here are the other provisions that are, for example. You dropped a typical contract at 49th. [[You don't understand.]] You're saying you're shutting down an author's contract or an act contract. What about the contractor's contract? It's a typical theatre contract. And the author's contract is not one of the performance contracts and it's very clear in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In one word, I think that actually if this law were to have, I'm personally very much to say contrary and I don't like that normative optimism, even though I'm a lawyer, and I don't think the law solves these things, that the problem is both in sub-financing and in a bad organisation that's been going on for decades, but with us, I don't think the law is going to change anything. Maybe he'll temporarily change...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50710	A colleague to Josipovic, time...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50711	And I'm afraid that one provision would be sufficient, which is that the Law on Theatres, the National Journals and that ceases to be valid with the day the team and the team are quite sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50712	Thank you very much. Next is representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50713	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will stay more on the problem of the funds for the work of theatres and theatre groups or the problem of funding. Although optimism is expressed in the very introduction of this law to address the issue of financing or to define the principles of financing, it seems to me that this is the weakest chapter done. He'd even say that the necessary introduction and a little more data would help us all try to assess the situation in theaters. Because it is evident that the provisions of Articles 9 to 12 that only say that space, pay or I would say funding of software activities and financing of material activities that it is from the Republic to the units of local self-government to the founders, that is something that is so general. The question remains whether in this bill at all we have obtained this assessment of the situation and to try simply to assess that even national theatres are small or large, and depending on whether they are small or large, whether we have enough resources and whether we can be satisfied with the standard of employees, with the standard of the program in this... we do not have that in the introduction. Because that moment would be a little different about funding itself. Let us also try to say at the same levels as the Republic, County, City and municipalities we also have concerns about national theatres, about public but also about private and when we try to see if certain budgets can withstand the public needs that will turn to this. We'll see that you don't. And when we begin to discuss the total needs of culture and try to say how much it goes to the theatre, which goes to galleries, painting, which I'd say publishing, at that point we'll get to some I'd say a finding where we'll see that maybe a few times too many funds in public needs go to publishing compared to the theatre and try to give a review there. So we have something more in the introduction, and we might also define different resources for theatre and theatre society, and certainly that at that point when we do not define the obligation to say at the national theatre in some percentages, it has to express itself or approximately as much as it should go from the state level, from the level of the county, from the level of cities, it would already be certain security for these national houses. She would be. To try and maybe even say where we have national houses, public theatres and some kind of relationship about how programs should be defined in public needs for culture. Is that necessary, perhaps if we had all these problems about financing in the introduction. Because it's unequivocal, no matter how much we give for culture, it's not enough. It's not enough. If not enough, do we, if we want to define a better status theatre in Croatia, need to say more about redistributing funds within cultural needs, or would I say in this part of our obligation to define our funding obligation with certain provisions from the state, county and city. As much as this may be contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government or Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. But if someone decides to have a theater, they have a national theater, then they have to have some obligations. And that's why I think the provisions are very bad, that the provisions are and they're wrong, that we simply have a message that the National Theatre in Rijeka doesn't see the Founder of the Republic, there won't be any funds. Why? Because we haven't defined here in the financial monitoring provisions, it's not clearly defined enough, and there's this fear that certain simple programs won't monitor the state budget that I believe will not happen, but it's obvious that something should change in that part. Something should change. There's a problem when we talk about financial plans and I'd say the relationship between those professional employees and those on the fee. In the absence of funding for theatres, for cultural needs, it is evident that in national houses those who are constantly employed will be able to limit the quality of the project a few times, because there will be no money for fees I would say fees, I would not be saying money for strong projects with sound names and I would tell artists with national power for the reasons why too much money is given for that current drive and I just think that part should be defined in some way if we want to have more national projects concerning national theatres and not only would I tell projects such as Dubrovnik Summer Games or Baroque Evenings etc. So, in some ways, these national projects would have to try to financially define, where to find sources, how to find them, and how to provide them. And of course I can't get the impression that as much as I love tax discipline and advocate tax discipline, it's always the problem that remains, whether investment in the business sector in theaters, culture or at least in theatres, if we've already gone to the Law on Theatres, should be freed and tax-stimulated. It means whether the purpose of adopting this law is sufficient reason for the Minister of Culture to insist on tax relief for theatres if we want them specifically. Because if we don't, we're not gonna make it. We are not going to fix the status of financial theaters with this law. We won't. We just work it out a little bit, try to say the general principles of funding, but there are no additional sources. And that is why I think if this law is already going on, the Ministry's pressure on finance must be for the tax relief of the economy if it gives funds for the theatre or at least for national projects in theatre houses independently of private or public. So much for this part. When we talk about the management of the theatre I can talk a little bit with personal experience, because otherwise I've been known to have been in the boards several times, I'm not a cultural worker and I was basically an exponent of politics, etc. etc. What can I say about management? I think that in these discussions, a few times we share ourselves in favour of and against, and we don't realize that maybe we should also try to find different models and leave that maybe in national houses if we want more individual strength, we should be determined that in that part we really don't have administrative councils but that we have strong intensities, and on the other hand, maybe in some ways in some others with lower power, I would say, meaning or private and the rest we stay on board. Or vice versa, let's leave it to the founder. So it's either one or another. Why? Because he's going to choose either a strong person or he's going to go to the board of directors, which I think is a collective decision on the programme in theatres, I'd say, the quality of the program. Because we need to understand that founders, at least in national theatres, still have control through regular reports that are scheduled here, through the adoption of annual plans. Therefore, if we are talking about part and financial control and supervision, but in part and programming, this is done in some theatre institutions on budget management bodies, or I would say city and county management bodies. And in that part, the question is whether it is now necessary to ask a body such as the administrative council to somehow have a collective governing body, not an individual as strong as one. And that's why my opinion is that these polemics should be more understood in this particular thinking of leaving the founders to choose a species so that they can show where they want a strong individual, and where they want a simple collective body of governance. And obviously that we could then find reconciliation and that essentially with tension with us as legislators would pass on it to the founder himself. And then I don't think that in the election, in the event of a contest from, the founder who insists on collective governance, there won't be strong intensities. They'll report to a place where a simple founder has more trust in an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50714	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more registered representatives for individual hearings. It's the end word of clubs, five minutes. The first is the HNS Club, representative Jozo Radoš. And brief information or a reminder. 31st session of the Committee on Gender Equality, December 1st, Hall "Janko Drašković", 13 and 30. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50715	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will try all of these changes that are proposed to sublime into only one fundamental change, which is the loss or reduction of independence and autonomy of Croatian theatres. I do not dispute that there is difficulty in the management segment. Of course, it is not easy to set a good relationship between the responsibility and independence of such institutions, but surely the path to which it should not go should not go is to reduce their autonomy and independence. We passed a law six months ago that introduced more centralism and less autonomy and independence in managing secondary and primary schools in the Republic of Croatia. We have introduced a school council appointed by the representative body, not more parents and not more teachers. And I think we went in the wrong direction here, too. All other institutions that are between founders and owners and entities, whether they are cultural institutions, have not proved successful. The administrative council of cultural institutions is often either a political beating or an undeserved apprehension. It's an honor to make exceptions, but that's usually the case. So if that's how it has to be, and we don't have a better solution then it actually needs to be completely abolished, if policy hasn't already found the right way to manage these institutions. And therefore the administrative councils introduce now and in theatres, and we do not have good experience with other administrative councils or with professional bodies, it is certainly a step back. The second question is, it's the same story again. It is the domination that the business director, not just the board of directors, will have over the Institute, and that is again the continuation of the same negative management process, the external management of institutions in culture, this time the theatres. Which isn't good again. And finally, the third observation that goes in the same direction, these are the previous programming guidelines that are adopted on the basis of the cultural development strategy, the documents that we have, however, but which are very difficult to translate and what would be the programming guidelines. If this document is too general, it will be unusable. I think a binding programming guideline prior to the selection of individuals. If he will be very specific then he will, in fact, enter into the freedom of the artistic activities of Croatian theatres. These are 3 very negative tendencies, and they're actually down to 1. To reduce their independence and, of course, their creativity, and in the field of organisational management relations, offer nothing that would mean a safe move forward. And that is why the Croatian People's Party Club and Liberal Democrats think it would be best to withdraw this bill from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50716	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBH, NDS is a colleague of Nikola Ivanis, and we have 2 corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50717	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you. A colleague said that we had instituted the school councils, as he said, which are now being elected by the representative body, and neither teachers nor parents choose anymore. That's just not true. There is an institute of school committees, a colleague you should have read before the Law on primary and secondary education, school boards whose members are elected and teachers from the ranks, 3 teachers from the classes of the teaching council. The Board of Parents chooses 2 parents from its ranks and a representative body gives 2 representatives to that same school board. Therefore, they all select their representatives and are completely autonomous in the choice of their representatives. And it's no school council, and it's no bigotry like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50718	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50719	A colleague injures the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 because he did not correct my incorrect claim but said the wrong allegation. It may have been a mistake to tell the council, not the school board, it's not a dispute. It's just a lapus. However, according to our new law, the current Mr. Representative, parents only propose and teachers only propose, and members of the school boards are appointed representative bodies. Before that, it was a solution for teachers to name and name their parents. That's the truth. You haven't read the law or you want to say it for some other reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50720	Thank you very much. I don't believe it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the debate. Correction of an incorrect quote, Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50721	Just an addition to what my colleague Frano has already corrected. It's really not true what you said, colleague Radoš, but I would have complemented in that section if there was no talk of aposal since the school board members did not receive any compensation for their work on that school board. And only two members choose their representative body directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50722	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50723	Article 209 again. Rules of Procedure. So, it's a very clear situation with the selection of school boards. I'm sorry you're spreading the subject. It would be correct if you had a replica and then I could answer that I'm not putting myself and the chairman in an awkward position. Parents suggest, teachers suggest... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50724	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50725	And a good part of those people have a big apnage. When I was just talking about apanaze, I didn't mean their pineapples, they're too small to be called that. But you have supervisory boards and boards of directors where... They go up to several thousand kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're often apologetics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50726	Thank you very much. It seems to me that this time and on the left, my colleagues agreed that this is definitely not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a way of reporting for a word, which I keep very incorrect. I ask nicely, colleagues, if you really want a debate, report to the replicas, if I do not invite my colleagues to respect the Rules of Procedure because otherwise I will give you notices. Here's your colleague Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50727	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say on behalf of the 3 regional parties of the Primorje-Gorski Alliance, the Slavonian-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurje Democratic Alliance that this proposal is not acceptable for our club and that we suggest that it either refuses or withdraws from the procedure. When we say this, we say this on the basis of another belief that, following a debate yesterday and today in the House, we have bowed down to one such attitude because it is clear and stems from the debate that a whole series of doubts remain that are seriously justified and that this Law does not solve, but rather, in relation to the legal solutions that have been reached so far, opens up a whole series of situations and relationships that will lead to new doubts as well. This is a confirmation of a part of the public debate which has been specifically implemented in the Croatian public and through the media on the proposal of this Law since it appeared in the public, where a whole series of public and cultural workers have been resorted to this kind of attitude by actually asking what is the reason and why and where is the reason for the need for the new law to be brought at all, and this is one of the questions that we would like to ask to the promoters, and also to the authors for which we do not know who they are, and that was the real reason and that what is in this debate is quite seriously justified, and then all that he explained is in this respect, and which, unlike a whole series of replicas, from the whole series of amendments to the incorrect allegations of Zagreb theatre, these conditional debts, which were not necessarily accepted by the key, and which was not necessarily relevant to the key, that the key to the key, all of this is supervised and that all of this together is fairly vague and untransparently left to practice from house to house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Adding all these arguments that the representative Josipovic has made from a legal point of view, which also did not oppose the strong corrections of the incorrect allegations that are so characteristic of the debate in this assembly, it is clear that we were not having a hard time sticking to the attitude and suggesting that this Law be either withdrawn or rejected in the first reading. Especially what we want to say with a few sentences is this part of the story that he spoke about national theatres in the debate. National cannot and is not just what is in Zagreb. All the citizens of this country can't and don't let God ever live in Zagreb, all the citizens who want to go to theatres can't go to HNK and shouldn't go to HNK, there's a lot going on around this country in theatre culture, which is very much of national importance, and it's happening on a conditional periphery or province. It is absolutely unacceptable to exclude from state level other theatres, it is absolutely unacceptable to place theatres in Osijek, Split and Rijeka, conditionally told to some historical, national, regional centres and to make a great contribution to the overall national culture through the work of these houses. For this reason, we hold that there is indeed much more reason to put this Law aside, and if it is necessary to continue the debate on this topic which began yesterday and today, then let the ministry continue with a coordinated expert debate in the total cultural and public circles, so that the overall position of the theatre culture in Croatia debates and create conditions for its promotion, and this Law will not do so and we do not support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50728	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50729	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is not true that this Law will abolish the funding of the state to national theatres in Rijeka and Osijek and Split. It doesn't say anywhere, it's simply incorrect, though. One of the features that artists want to return to this Act is that the minister gives final consent to the appointment of directors and other national theatres, not only to the Croatian National Theatre, and where he directly appoints them. So, as far as funding is concerned, it's simply incorrect, it has nothing to do with this law. They continue to finance from the state budget and it is quite clear and unequivocally and the other thing their status is unquestionable, they are national theatres and remain national theatres and according to this Law. Four national theatres, that's clearly what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50730	Thank you very much. Representative Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50731	Madam Vice President. So here's a colleague, says the rest are doubts that will lead to new doubts or what isn't corrected is true and similar. So all the time it's insinuating, it's actually every word that needs to be corrected, it's been so repetitive that it's impossible. However, the question is, in my opinion, whether the law or lawlessness, because if we allow poetic freedom as so far, I think that all those to whom theatres have remained in debt will be resented, and quite so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50732	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the club HSLS, LS and DC representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50733	Madam Chairman, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen. By listening to this debate, and even a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Theatres, we could say that once in the theatre and over the theatre, poetry clashes today, unfortunately politics are conflicting. At times, it was important that theatres competed with each other in theatre poetry, in specific aesthetic interpretation or naziness, today, unfortunately speaking more about it with political speakers, and even in public debate when theatre workers themselves appear and almost to be able to count on the fingers of one hand in a more recent time, such as theatre polemics that were motivated or motivated by aesthetic or poetic reasons, most unfortunately are driven by political reasons. I think that's something we should ask ourselves, not just us as representatives, but the entire Croatian public. What's definitely not good at this law is that our liberal sensitivity provokes is the fact that it's about express normisation, because it's about reregulation of law and it's about reregulation of obligations for which I don't think there's a great need. No normative optimism, no pre-regulatoryity will save reality, we need to understand that reality primarily within theaters resists excess administration. We can pass not know how many laws, we will not affect the order in the theatres themselves and that there is competition between theatre houses and the overall Croatian theatre cultural space. This is not possible to make such a regulation, however, I cannot agree, except for perhaps traditional reasons, Mr Secretary of State, that we have one national house and that we still have the distinction of national houses that are not in Zagreb and then the distinction of public institutions and then the distinction of private institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, any cultural project in the Republic of Croatia that contributes in any way to the culture of citizens, the culture of the community is a national project. Therefore, whether it is a theatre in Virovitica, whether it is a private theatre family, whether I do not know about the performance of the Croatian culture in Zagreb, if it is quality performances. If the theatre is not high-quality then it can be called the HNK and the national theatre and such, it simply does not contribute to national culture. I'm not saying that, I'm aware there's a traditional reason but I'm saying that because it affects funding. Croatian National Theatre in Varazdin, which is one of the best theatres outside this category of national theatre, receives from the Ministry of Culture 150 thousand kuna annually and promotes Croatian culture as well as that theatre that receives millions of amounts. That doesn't make sense. Let's not share theaters because of norms, let's not make evil blood, but we're just encouraging competition. I completely agree with my colleague Josipovic. If someone wants to start a private group or theater and there's no room but they'll play on the street why we should legally distancing him from someone else. So let's encourage a private initiative in culture. That is exactly what all the problems are, not in the laws, but in the fact that there is no culture market in the Republic of Croatia. There is not enough private initiative, and we rather than encourage it, to round up people to set up, we will now prescribe to them that they must do so in accordance with the rule set by the minister. Why would we have to do that? If someone wants to have a private initiative and five actors in the ensemble and play I don't know comedy... or something on the streets, on a salary or on a tram as they played plays why we wouldn't let him do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why would he have to come under any of the articles of this law? Therefore, this normivity will not contribute either to flexibility, nor to the fluidity, nor to the fluctuation of actors, or to what we call employees or directors, or to all others. And I'm up for us to sort of pass theater law. We are therefore not against it, although, of course, the question of "and the ultims of lines" is asked, how many countries in Europe today have theatre laws. I think there are fewer states they have than those they don't have, but let's narrow down the competition between theaters. Let's not cement, confuse such privileged, less privileged private or public or national or public, I don't think that makes any sense. And in the end, I have to say as mayor that I agree that there are administrative councils. I think the boards are good, a lot more if it's going to be chosen from the ranks of prominent theatre employees, but I don't think it's a good excessive regulation either. Leave the possibility that if we set up as a unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50734	A fellow representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50735	Excuse me. Here's the last sentence. If we have established our theater as a city, then leave us with the opportunity to determine for ourselves what kind of administrative council it will be and whether we will have both director and business ingenuity or we will unite everything in one person. Then it's more our thing. And the closing line, I am fully convinced that this should, once we have already normised the obligation of the county in whose area there are theatres to finance the theatres. Unfortunately, most Croatian counties do not finance or finance enough theatres in cities where the county is based.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50736	Thank you very much. You really are out of time. I warned you, please. My colleagues and colleagues, we have guests at the Gallery. They're elementary school students from Kloštr Podravski so let's say hello to their teachers. We still have time. [[Applause]] He answered the words of Culture Ministry representative Dr Jadran Antolovic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50737	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, although these are the closing words, let me once again underline what has happened in the last debates. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50738	My colleagues and colleagues, the ministry's representative has the right to report for a word during the debate. I guess it was awkward when he said it was the final word. I think it's the third final if I count well so far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50739	In fact, to clarify that in the last debates it seemed wrong to me as to the regulation relating to public theatres in relation to private, that this should be clarified. Namely, no one intends to regulate any conditions for the work of private theatres but I must point out that these private theatres have the right to report to budget funds, and then they must accept the appropriate amounts of funding and even supervision of the financial assets that are then equalized with the supervision of the public theatre. As regards the observation relating to the Regulation referred to in Article 43, I would only recommend that the applicable law specify the same rule and that regulation which has already been adopted long ago and in force, published in the "National Journal" Minister has carried out this impossible mission and established on a proposal of the profession who is considered an art worker because it is precisely these employees that can be employed and have appropriate other rights... the rights and ultimately in public theatres and the right to pay, which is then derived from certain collective regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would also like to say once again that it is not and it is incorrect that only from HNK Zagreb generates the need for legislation. It is as I have already said, and out of many debates it has arisen, four years of the topic and the desire of theatre workers to novelize the law and hence to resolve this matter. Following this, the proposal is not a day based on some wishes, but precisely on the debate and analysis of the situation which certainly, as is the case with the distinguished representative Linic, should be given even fully during the final draft of the law, because then it will be seen and why certain solutions are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50740	Thank you, Secretary of State. It's 13.27. I wanted to ask you to make a deal. We still have two representatives' clubs on file. Are you going to end this point with those two or break up and continue this afternoon? Shall we finish? Thank you very much for your consensus. Next is counterpart Antun Vujic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50741	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister! Here, in the calm of this discussion, let's repeat a few major accentes to understand each other. Of course, we do not have the same attitudes, and we are invited to present different aspects and different views on issues that seem different to our conscience. So, first of all, I have to say that there were really different interpretations and the need to go before in the amendments to the law, but the fact is that these proposals did not occur in the 2000-2003 period because they were trying to look at other additional elements where the real step should be done. The real step should therefore be to work in other laws that will free the structure of an artist who is tied to theatres to be given one public resource, to be protected on the one hand by work and on the other hand also in a free relationship to circulate within the different needs of different theatres. In that sense, I think that the Ministry of Culture should encourage a new debate on which all other laws or if they think it is possible in this law itself how to resolve the issue of various tax reliefs, how to address the issue of financing tax incentives for the theatre itself or for independent artists or the whole structure that would, in fact, get the main meaning of which should go into the amendments to this Law. In other elements, we believe that these changes are not necessary or that they are not so easy to achieve by comparing the existing Law with practice and possibly amending the existing law that we are familiar with, which we know where it works and where it works weaker. And of course there are then all the questions that are related to both decentralisation and I confirm the same, which does not confirm the clarifications, the corrections of the actual formulations and of the nomotechnical and real fundamental, legal nature that obviously cause doubts here. So we propose to the Ministry of Culture to return to zero reading with this Law, to extend it to those, those, that complex legally which also includes tax reliefs and the structure of labour and labour rights for this wide population that is related to the theatre in a different way so that it can ensure its circulation. In this sense, we also warn our distinguished colleagues from the HDZ Club that in 1997 we could pass one law together because we all voted on this law, and that now in a way in the form it is now, with great, great recommendations and with great, great distinctions in some way, we have divided. It also points to a practice of politics that I don't think is necessary, and in that sense we don't think we should go with, as a new law, an even older law that we had before 1997. So our position is to return this to zero, to zero reading, and once again try to cover it on the basis of the previous Law of Amendments and Supplements that would lead to a real improvement in the situation related to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50742	Thank you, colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Jagoda Majska-Martinčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50743	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we end up looking at this big deal that I have to say in me is actually a pleasure because this is one of the few cases that culture has gotten so much space, so many different opinions that we've devoted enough time to the topic of culture. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will certainly support this bill in its first reading with the fact that, of course, we expect that there will be a lot of proposals, opinions all in order to improve. I personally regret that most of today's discussions have been spent on politics and less on culture. We talked a lot more today about cultural councils, and we talked very little about those who create the theatre, about artists, about their position, about their opportunities, and about what this Law, according to this proposal, could, of course, contribute to the corrections that they have not only better status than to make what they do better, be better for their lives, but also for the culture as a whole. So I was going to say. It is politics, yes, everything or politics is nothing. Depends on how a man looks at it. However, when it comes to such a transparent network of activities as the theatres I spoke about today the first morning when I tried to illustrate what should be put into this Law which is so diverse and so diverse that it was actually great art and great courage of the Ministry of Culture that it even reached for this job, however imperfect it was. But it has started, I think it is good and that all together, and in particular we of the Croatian Democratic Community want to send a message first and foremost to those who create a theatre, and these are artists that this Law will continue to be developed and worked for them to make them better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50744	Thank you to my fellow MPs. No more reports. 13 and 33, break to 15 for lunch. And a good run!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50745	Proposal for a law on theaters. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Theatres is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Some actors didn't get involved, and actresses or intentants, theaterlogists. We don't have a quorum. ... So nice we don't have a quorum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's try one more time. Let's try one more time. She's a colleague of Alenka's Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50746	Mr. President, it seems to me that actors and actresses do not play a part in this act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-30-0.u50747	The dramatic plot is such that they also play a role in this act. Yeah, let's try it again. Maybe in the second act, we'll make it. Looks like there's an actor on this side who forgot to sign up again. We're moving on to another point and we'll get back to this later. And why, if we can do this today, why postpone Tuesday's vote on this first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Theatres? Let's try that one more time. People change attitudes, let's go, people change, let's go Mato, let's go. Almost there, almost there, almost there. The result? Quarume, come on. 78. I give the vote the conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Theatres is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 69 for, 2 abstentions and 9 against. With most of that conclusion adopted. There are boxes, ballots and helpers in the lobby, so please let's go to the vote. It's a 30-minute stop.
