ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45738	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 17th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, as well as Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, vice president and present members of the government. You have received the minutes of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the 16th session minutes in the text as you have received it. Now we're moving on to the session agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included 10 new points in the final draft agenda: Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan contract No 7307 for a project for the development of a social care system between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirming Amendments, Amendments and Supplements to The Hague Conference on International Private Law. Third, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance. Fourth, the proposal for a law on forest reproductive material. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Seeds, Fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. Sixth, final proposal of the forest law. Seven, final proposal of the Hunting Law. Eight, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. Ninth, Proposal for a decision to declare 2006 "The Year of Nikola Tesla" in the Republic of Croatia. And 10th, decision on amendments and additions to the Statute of the Postal Services Council. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 4 to 10, paragraphs 14 to 18, paragraphs 21 and 33, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. These are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code. Proposal for a State aid law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. Proposal for a law confirming a loan contract for a project to develop a social care system between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Statute of the Hague Conference on International Private Law. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax avoidance. Proposal for a law on forest reproductive material. Proposal for a seed law, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a social security contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary and the Proposal for a law on the validation of a second protocol under the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Goods in the event of an armed conflict. I note that the laws referred to in the final draft agenda under points 6, 8, 9, 17 and 18 bear the label of the P.Z. proposal and apply the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a State Support Act with the Final Proposal for a Law. Proposal for a law on forest reproductive material with a final draft law and a proposal for a law on seed, fruit material and recognition of a variety of agricultural plants with a final proposal for a law. So these five draft laws with the final draft law do not vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Let me write it down in a row. Pero Kovacevic, Lucky Ferenchek. [[Intruder: The first is Happy Ferenčak.]] What? Let me see if I've written everything down. [[Upadica: Bukovac, Kapraljevic, Dorotea Bukovac, Antun Kapraljevic, Luka Roić, Dragica Zgrebec.]] Honored representatives: Ljubica Lalić, Pero Kovačević, Srecko Ferenčak, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, Antun Kapraljevic and Dragica Zgrebec And Luka Roić [[Intruder: Luka Roic.]] And Luka Roic and Shime Lucin. [[Intruder: Shime Lučin.]] That's all. Okay. Let's take it in a row. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45739	Thank you, Mr. President. So the Croatian Peasant Party's Club proposes to remove the emergency procedure from, to remove the emergency procedure from the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act for the following reasons. This Decision shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out exactly the reasons when an act can be adopted by emergency procedure and says: "Extremely the law can only be passed by emergency procedure when it is required by the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons, or when it is necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy." In the light of the proposal for a law proposed by adoption in an emergency procedure, it is evident that there are no business conditions, as the reasons for the adoption of the emergency procedure are stated: that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity could set up family centres at the beginning of 2006, which is in accordance with the Law on the establishment and part of the central bodies of the state administration and national family policy. The further reason is for the adoption that the Croatian Institute for Social Work could be abolished. It is therefore evident from the reasons set out in the proposal itself that there are no business conditions for the adoption of an emergency procedure, and in addition this proposal regulates very sensitive matter in the time of social separation of society. We believe that a detailed debate is needed, a good solution is sought, and it is not good for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, especially because there are no business conditions met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45740	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45741	Your Honor, Mr. President. You know that the position of the HSP club is that we have entered the legislative stampede and we know that during this session alone, we are from the total number of laws that we have passed 83% of us have adopted by emergency procedure. And what are the laws best-spoken cases related to this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace Protection in business with cash and values with the Final Proposal of the Law. We are opposed to urgency because the achievements of this law are questionable. It interferes again, does not distinguish the government from what is causing, what is the cause, what is the consequence of growth and of endangering the general security of citizens. And the only thing that's visible from this law is that it's going to cost banks, currency exchanges and all the ones that are worth at least one billion kuna, and it's questionable whether that equipment is already made. Therefore, we oppose the urgency of the procedure. It also has to, even though you said about the State Support Act, even though it's like P.Z. I have to protest on behalf of the club. In fact, Article 10 of that Law states that the powers of the Parliament are limited. We haven't seen it in legal practice yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45742	Don't, we'll come to that. Now it's an objection to the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45743	It's a nuncens we can't cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45744	Objection to the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45745	...that the agency determines what the Parliament will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45746	Third, Honorable Representative Happy Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45747	Your Honor, Mr. President. I also have an objection to the 5th item of the agenda where the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in the business of cash. I believe that this law must be withdrawn from the emergency procedure because it has not been fully done, it has not been consulted by the profession, and at least here there are concerns about the protection of workers working in those institutions. Therefore, the applicant did not explain any of the conditions set out in Article 159. Rules of Procedure on the urgency of the procedure, and I suggest that this law be put into additional procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45748	Thank you. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45749	Thank you, Mr. President. The IDS Club has objected to item 4 of the agenda, i.e. the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act with the Final Proposal. We are opposed to an emergency procedure because it is a very sensitive matter, and in addition, it has been promised to make a systematic reform of social care and we suggest that it go into regular procedure in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45750	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45751	Mr. President. I ask that it be removed from the emergency procedure item number 7, that is the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the Final Proposal of the Law for the simple reason that in Article 159. The Rules of Procedure states: "Extreme law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and others require justified state reasons, i.e. when necessary in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy.". So far, from 218 laws until July 15th, of 218 laws, we passed 181 laws by emergency procedure, that's 83%. This means that this exception has become a rule, and one of those laws that should not in any case enter such a rule is this Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and we believe that this should be withdrawn from the emergency procedure and put into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45752	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45753	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose that the emergency procedure be removed from point 9, the proposal of the State Aid Act and the Final Proposal for a Law. Despite the fact that, according to our Rules of Procedure, this bill bears the designation P.Z.E. We feel that we need to consider this law in two readings because its application next year would actually have far-reaching consequences for individual branches of economic activity in Croatia. It would also prevent the further application of some of the existing laws relating to areas for which the state must have special care. As in the hill-mounted areas of the Island Act, the University of Vukovar Act. We therefore suggest that an emergency procedure be removed despite the fact that this proposal bears such a mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45754	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. First reading of the bill with P.Z. it may go, it shall follow an urgent procedure when requested by the legislator and, exceptionally, if proposed by the parent committee, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure or the political system, one of these three committees. Then he can go after the first reading. None of those three committees suggested first reading this law. Dear Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45755	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I also propose to remove the urgent procedure of the law under regular number 5, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values with the Final Bill proposal, as well as the draft law under regular number 7, the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency with the Final Proposal of the Law. Namely, both the law and the law do not find in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in paragraph 159, where it is clearly prescribed which laws can go according to an emergency procedure. Unless we remove the emergency procedure, I suggest that we change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because it doesn't really mean anything anymore if we keep doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45756	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45757	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP Club also proposes to remove the emergency procedure from the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values for a simple reason because we believe that this issue, i.e. this law, should be made more detailed and that all stakeholders should be included in the whole story, and the fact is that the current law, which also prescribes certain measures, has not actually been brought into practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45758	Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. We have objections to the following laws to apply an emergency procedure. I ask the Prime Minister and the Government to show themselves about these objections. So we have the following objections. In the Law on Social Care, the Law on minimum protection measures in cash operations, the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Financial Fund Supervisory Agency. The three laws are objecting to an emergency procedure. Whether there is a first objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Social Care Act, where several representatives and representatives and clubs are objecting to the non-compliance with the business conditions and the proposal for the law to go on a regular basis, in a regular procedure. All right, have a little consult. So, the Proposed Law on Social Welfare accepts the objection, goes to regular procedure in the first reading. The second is the Law on minimum, the Act amending and supplementing the Act on minimum protection measures in the business of cash and value.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45759	Mr. President, just for a minute. It would be extremely important because of the situation in the sector to go through an emergency procedure so that measures could be prepared at the Ministry of the Interior, but if the Parliament, which is our shared responsibility because we want the safety of Croatian citizens and this has led us to the fact that we are looking for an emergency procedure, but if the Parliament considers that it may be better in two readings, we also accept that. But I warn that this is about the safety of Croatian citizens and that was why we asked for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45760	I beg a clear government position, yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45761	Yes, on the condition that we are all responsible then, because we are asking for an emergency procedure to bring security, that it is the safety of Croatian citizens, so please vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45762	Okay, the government stays at the emergency procedure. And we have a third draft law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45763	There's still an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45764	The government remains with the emergency procedure proposal. Now we're going to vote. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare goes into regular procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and value. Before that, please join the electronic voting system. I'm asking for a result. 72, 78, 81. We have a voting quorum. Therefore, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and value. Please engage. You can vote. What's the score? For emergency procedure 62.7 abstentions and 29 against. I find that this final bill has been included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency where the same objection was made. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 28 against and this bill is finally included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 80 votes for, 3 abstentions and 10 against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, No. 7307 HR for the development of the welfare system between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and the addition of the Statute of the Hague Conference to international private law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 90 votes in favour, one abstention and two against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. We can vote. The result? I find that with 90 votes for, 3 abstentions and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the confirmation of a social security contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 85 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against and this final bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Confirmation Act II. Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Goods in the event of an armed conflict? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 86 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against and this Final Proposal of the Law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. We have completed the vote on the draft law for inclusion in the agenda by emergency procedure. There have been no written negotiations on the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The final proposal of the Forest Act, second reading, P.Z.E., was included under point 19. Under point 20, the Final Proposal of the Hunting Act, P.Z.E., is included, second reading. Under point 22, the proposal for a 2006 declaration was included in the year Nikola Tesla in the Republic of Croatia. A decision on amendments and additions to the Statute of the Postal Services Council has also been incorporated under point 23. Do any of the MPs or advocates have objections to the inclusion of any of these points that I counted in the agenda? There isn't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the whole established agenda. I propose as usual not to read the entire agenda but just to announce that the agenda established is as I have suggested in the final draft agenda with amendments. Thank you, the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in business with cash and values, with the debate of MP Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45767	Well, Mr. President, can we find out what point of the agenda we're working on today?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45768	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to determine the quorum first. Tell me, how much is the quorum? 81 for now, so we have a quorum. Well, let's get around the agenda first. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 17th session's agenda to the next points. The first proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 with a draft budget for 2007 and 2008 with proposals for the financial plans of all of these institutions for pension, health, employment, water, roads, highways, insurance, insurance, insurance and bank insurance, the Privatisation Fund, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Proposal for a plan of revenue and expenditure of the State budget outside the budget for 2006 with a proposal for projection of the 2006 and 2008 budget consolidated, the proposal for a plan of revenue and expenditure of the state budget outside the budget for 2005 with a draft budget for 2006 and 2007 consolidated. This refers to the proposal for a state budget with the following proposals for financial plans. Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Third, Proposal for a Law on Accounting with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, P.Z.E., Proposal for a Law on Audit, emergency procedure, P.Z.E., Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land, first reading, Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a Advocate for Children, granting consent to the Statute of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, Proposal for a candidate for the selection of members of the State Attorney's Council, appointment of judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. I note that the two laws proposed to be adopted under the emergency procedure bear the P.Z.E. mark and apply the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure, these are the Proposal for a Law on Accounting and the Proposal for a Law on Audit. Do any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the proposed points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. We're done voting, except for what we left for the next round. We continue the session Tuesday at 9.30 with a debate on the report, on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2004. The MPs know who they are, who they are, the vice president Bebic has read it, and in 15 hours we will interrupt the debate on this report and possibly if we have anything else. The clear break is at half-two, and at 15 o'clock we begin the debate on the State Budget for 2006 with all those relevant acts. I hope the board presidents have called the committees for Monday and Tuesday morning. I'm interrupting the session, so on Tuesday at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45772	The IDS is absolutely against the emergency procedure of the Public Assembly Act. I think what we did or what she tried to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45773	No, it's not an emergency procedure. Do you have any objection to the inclusion in the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45774	If this isn't an emergency procedure, then we don't have another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45775	It's not an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45776	Although we have an absolute observation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45777	Please, colleague Cain, for the emergency procedure of the proposed laws under emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45778	Who saw them?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45779	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45780	Mr. President, since you've read to us here right now, it seems to me like some 16 points to be included in the agenda, I'm asking you on behalf of the SDP Club to take a ten-minute break so we can consult on how we're going to vote on putting the dots on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45781	Okay. Ten minutes off. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are 10 minutes out of time for a request for a break. I'd like a representative of the SDP Club, who asked for a break to take his word for it. We're moving on with the session. I'd like a representative of the SDP Club who asked for a break to take his word for it. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. I'm asking the MPs to calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45783	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that although we know by the Rules of Procedure, all the laws that bear the code P.Z.E. the laws from which the urgency of the procedure cannot be removed. However, on behalf of the SDP Club, we would like to warn that there are several laws that are very extensive, dealing with issues that are extremely important, and we received them on benches only last night. We still feel that these laws should be considered in the ordinary procedure. We understand why there are now several, therefore, laws with P.Z.E. The label seeks to push into the agenda, however, is also a fact that in a year and a half we have not followed in our work everything that we have done in the legislative harmonisation programme with the European Union and have written ourselves down, so we have been lagging behind for the past year and a half and now trying to make up for this backlog somewhere. However, labour in a year and a half can't be compensated now in a hurry. We believe that this is still about how we will live in Croatia, and we believe that in these few laws we should remove the sign of urgency. And we would also like to react on behalf of the Club in the agenda of the Public Assembly Act. It is, in effect, a law put out of effect in the Constitutional Court because it did not have a qualified majority in this House for its adoption. And we believe that the Constitutional Court has put the law out of force, not just the vote. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, we ask that the Law on Public Gathering go beyond normal procedure, so that the Law on Public Gathering is not only carried out by a vote but also by a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45784	Thank you very much. In accordance with the provisions of Article 161 of the Treaty, the The rules of procedure shall be adopted in accordance with the rules of procedure of the European Union, if requested by the applicant in respect of these 7 laws, by the government's proposal to adopt an emergency procedure. Exceptionally, if the home working body, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system or the Committee on Legislatives proposes to be the law, these first reading laws will be discussed in the first reading, because it does not comply with the Constitution or the legal system on the law. Therefore, I do not have the opportunity to apply any other provision of business rather than this Article 161 under which the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of these laws is not to be voted on but to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. This second part of your complaint concerning the vote on the Amendment Law and the amendments to the Law on Public Assembly, okay, we will not discuss this for now and I suggest that clubs meet during the day and discuss this issue. And now we should vote on the view of others. Please, let's get on with it. Please quorum. 86 MPs have been identified. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the 2003 Protocol Confirmation Act with the International Convention establishing the International Fund for the Compensation of damages to oil pollution from 92. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that on the agenda, this final bill is included with 88 for and 4 against. Second. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the 96 Protocol amending and supplementing the 76th Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Tragics. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With a 91st vote for, 2 abstentions and 4 against and this Bill proposal included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Third. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Adjustment Programme. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 92 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Fourth. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian Technology Development Project. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 92 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against and this final bill included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the cabinets of the Ministers of Ukraine in the mutual protection of the confidentiality of data? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. We'll wait a few moments until he gets to the operating temperature system. It's all right now. So again, we will vote on the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian Technology Development Project. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 92 votes for, 1 abstention and 4 against. For the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the cabinets of the Ministers of Ukraine on the mutual protection of the confidentiality of data. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 86 for, 2 abstentions and 5 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes for, 3 abstentions and 19 against and this Final Bill proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the other proposed points? Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45785	Mr. President, I'm gonna take this opportunity while there's no television transmission. We're actually witnessing a constitutional crisis. Yesterday [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45786	Thank you very much. Reference to some of the proposed agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45787	Well, that's what I'd like to suggest as a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45788	You can't suggest it and you can't suggest it. Now, at this stage, only a representative can make an objection to inclusion in the agenda of some of the other proposed points. [[You gave me your word and now you're interrupting me.]] I gave you my word because you called to say that you have an objection to include some of the other suggested points on the agenda. Do you or don't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45789	Just keep quiet about it, just keep quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45790	Tomorrow, we would continue at 9:30 with a debate on the proposal for a decision to appoint an attorney for the children. Resumption of the debate. First in line is representative Marija Lugarić, second in Gordana Sobol, third club of HSP representatives Pero Kovacevic 5 minutes. After that discussion on the proposal for a law on textbooks for the basis of high school, the Proposal for a Law on Theatres, on the supply of blood products, etc., etc. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 9:30. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let us please include to determine whether there is a valid quorum for making the necessary decisions. He's 80. Okay, it's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, in accordance with Article 204(2), the MPs would propose the addition of this session with one point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Dear Representative and Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45792	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has reached a decision to repeal the Constitutional Law for the reasons of the so-called formal unconstitutionalities. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has determined that this Constitutional Law applies until 31.3. The proposal that the Government has established is the exact same text of this law, and in such a situation the question is actually what are we changing. Are we changing the Constitutional Court's decision or amending this bill? That is why I propose that an emergency procedure be removed and that the first reading consider the situation in general what is being discussed and which decision is being discussed. If we are discussing the Constitutional Court's decision, then we are not in charge of it, and if it is any other change that is contained in the draft law, which is not contained in that law that abolished the Constitutional Court, then we can open the debate after the first reading and for the second reading. Thank you very much. We've got plenty of time, and that's why I suggest we remove the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45793	Thank you. That's your suggestion. It's the government's proposal to proceed with an emergency procedure. We'll vote on it. Please, who's in favor of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? We can vote. The result? 67 for, one abstention, 16 against, so there goes the emergency procedure. What will be the outcome and the result of the debate is quite another matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45794	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. I warmly welcome you! I particularly welcome the government's representatives present. The purified agenda is, I guess I can finish this one sentence that I started. You've received a purified agenda. Before moving to the agenda, Mr. Pero Kovacevic asked for the word, so please tell him immediately why.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45795	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Rights Club, please answer your questions regarding the consolidated agenda. First, the Prime Minister promised to discuss the report on the situation in the armed forces and the State of Defence Preparations at this session. It's not in the purified agenda. It's about the 2004 report. I hope we don't discuss it in 2007. Secondly, the government has promised to discuss at this session the Final Proposal for a Law on humanitarian mine action. The deadline expires on 15 January for the general submission of the final draft law. And third, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club last Thursday, I sought information related to the action of a self-called Australian settler who is roaming in Dalmatia and, unfortunately, it is obvious that it is some big fraud and is benefiting from the social moment in which Croatian citizens are present. Unfortunately, to this day, the HSP Club and the Croatian public have not received an answer although President Seks said he would immediately request a report from the government, meaning the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is interesting that it is not interested in the Croatian government, that it is more interested in Australian agencies such as AFP, DPA, Harold Sunn and even Tapai Tans. So all this interest is no longer of interest to the Croatian government, and we know what a difficult social situation is. And the fourth question is whether the Government withdrew its proposal to give a credible interpretation of Article 9c. in relation to Article 9a, Article 9a is replaced by the following: Article 2 The law on selecting representative bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government since 22 July of this year because it is not on the agenda either. So today, if we don't get a report on the actions of a self-called agent every time I ask that this report be finally given to us, because this relationship if the President of the Parliament has asked the government to do so, and the government isn't showing that it's a very worrying fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45796	Please, I'll pass on all this. I'll tell you what you asked for, but it can't be claimed on several occasions that the government doesn't care about anything. The government is interested, but the government must provide accurate and accurate information, not just something to say, and there are no relevant arguments behind it. Therefore, the government is in the phase of questioning who, whose idea it is, who made it possible, why the public assembly was held without obtaining permission and the like. So it takes time for the government to gather information so that it can provide real and concrete information about this Australia or these agitations to work in Australia before the Parliament. As far as the armed forces are concerned, we'll pass it on. Demining also, and as for the interpretation of the article that you have cited, this will give an answer to the Committee on Legislatives under number one, and we will see further what will be. It's been six months, but here we're going to rush the Legislative Committee to give its opinion. Here, now let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45797	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45798	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I ask you to inform us whether you received information from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the competent authorities regarding the case of Mr. Hans Wesson, who falsely presents himself as an Australian emigration agent and who organizes on the one hand, means a moment of social status in Croatia and encourages Croatian citizens unemployed to move to Australia when we know ourselves how many people have appeared and we know that there is no status of an emigrant agent, nor can he do so on the one hand, on the other hand, we know that these jobs can only be done in Croatia by the Croatian Institute and we ourselves know that the Australian Embassy has been fenced from him. Please is there any new information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45799	After your inquiry which you asked a few days ago, I am the same day, because I am obliged to provide representatives with answers to certain questions and explanations about the activity of that Australian citizen, Wesson Trevor, to explain and verify the legality of his work by the Ministry of Economy, State Inspectorate and our embassy in Cambery. It is the next and state inspectorate and the Ministry of Interior that supervised the legality of the work of the Australian citizen concerned because he organised a seminar in Split on 24 November and in this inspection which was carried out by the Chief State Inspectorate, together with the Ministry of Interior, was examined by the gentleman concerned, he presented himself as a representative of the Australian Agency for Immigration to have the approval of the Australian Government to present the conditions and opportunities for immigration and employment in Australia. It was presented to the Australian Agency for Immigration with the approval of the Australian Government to present the conditions and the possibility of moving and employment to Australia clearly because it was in Split of our citizens and our citizens, that it had received information about the embassy in Australia and that it had received information that there were no legal obstacles and further supervision of its legality of work because it was the area of labour relations and protection continued by employees of the Police Administration of Split-Dalmatia County and police station Split and state inspectorate. And the chief state inspector, Kruno Kovacevic, concluded that the sequence of established and stated facts did not establish violations of the rules on the circumstances and application of labour relations and traffic regulations of goods and services, but that the state inspector would continue to carry out inspection of the legality of the work of the appointed mediator. Therefore, the Chief State Inspector says that these data collected do not conclude that the appointed mediator who presents the terms and opportunities of employment in Australia would achieve any violations of the law but would continue to monitor its work. Australian, our embassy in Australia also informed me that the gentleman concerned, that they had learned about it from the press and that he had never been to the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Cambridge, that he had not met, that there was no approval or support for his work. So, for that information that he presents the terms and opportunities of employment in Australia that they have learned from this parliamentary debate and from the media. It's the state of things. So we need to give further incentive to the government and the state inspectorate to make sure that it continues to be an illegal intervention and recruiting of our citizens to go to Australia, illegal. Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for taking it and getting this answer, and I must immediately say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that I cannot be satisfied with the answer because it is not a fully factual situation, it is not normally an objection to you, but an objection to the relevant state attorney himself told me on Thursday, or Friday, that he has launched a full investigation because it seems to him that this is a criminal part of a false representation which is undeniably determined, namely, he does not have the status of an authorised agent to move to Australia and only those people under Australian regulations can deal with. I am also dissatisfied with this response because he was engaged in authorized employment mediation, according to our regulations, the Croatian Employment Service could have come as well as an authorised agent from Australia and then the embassy would know that, as the Croatian Government would know. Unfortunately, he's the target he came here to meet. And therefore, we have to protect our citizens who are in a difficult situation not to fall asleep, because we are afraid that there is a big scam behind it and that this is no longer happening and I say that all the other relevant ones continue to take action and we in the HSP Club have complete documentation regarding Australian regulations, we have made an insight into all the websites of the official Australian government, he is nowhere and he cannot deal with these regulations. So the Australian regulations don't allow him to do it but our bodies say he can do it. That is why I am asking and I agree with you that this part continues and all relevant can come to the Croatian Party of Rights Club where it will be presented by the Australian Government's website, the immigration office, and all of this is about a private company. That's the whole problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45801	I call on the Ministry of the Interior, both the Attorney General and the Chief State Inspector to continue their activities in order to determine whether or not it is illegal, therefore, illegal intervention, false representation and, in any event, the prevention of activity if such an illegal recruitment for the departure of our citizens to Australia is to be the victim of fraud and fraud. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 17th session with the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the financing of the Development of the system of education with the Final Proposal for a Law and on the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. We expect during today to get a draft law on humanitarian demining when we get it, I will suggest its inclusion in the agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty? Please, let's get on with it. To determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45803	Mr. President, one simple question. The law on courts will be at the vote today, because we have voted three times already and we delay the vote on that law?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45804	It's on! It's on!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45805	Today?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45806	You heard me. Yeah, it's on schedule, today's the vote. Please turn yourself back on. The quorum. 106 MPs, we have a quorum. Therefore, who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Education and Education System Project. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 106 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against is included in the agenda according to the urgent procedure of this bill. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of this second item of the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. We're done voting. I'm interrupting the session. We continue on Tuesday at 9:30 with item 20 of the agenda - Report on the work of the HRT Council and the report on the work of the HRT Directorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45809	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs! I was offered last night's "Latinica" opinion that this debate could not be conducted today, and I ask that Mr Galic be shown about last night's "Latinica". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45810	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45811	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, we are also asking the head director of Croatian television to show around last night's show "Latinica". If Mr. Cain doesn't care let him go outside. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because such shows amaze the Croatian public and we ask ourselves as most of the Croatian public at the Croatian Party of Rights Club which we watched last night. Are these Croatian Radio TV shows or other TV shows? And we're interested in whether the director-in-chief of Croatian television will take over in connection with this or if this is actually all right. We wonder if it goes on like that then "Quo vadis" Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45812	And the esteemed representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45813	Mr. President, I'm also joining my colleagues on the initiative. In fact, what we were looking at yesterday actually resulted in the late President Franjo Tudjman having a dream as a kid that we finally turned together with him into a criminal organization. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider this at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45814	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45815	So I also agree with all MPs that Croatian Radio-Television is the most powerful medium, but the freedom and independence of Croatian Radio-Television... But so is Mr. Galic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. President. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45817	Exactly, the contribution can be mounted in various ways and approaches, depending on the authorial approach and this approach, respected gentlemen, I also hold that the director of Croatian Radio and Television is obliged to protect and we, with this normal contribution, can pollomise. But that way we start today I think it's just a little bit higher than the height of this House in that way we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45818	Peace, gentlemen. During the debate, there is also the Director-General and Director-General and the President of the Programme Council, so we will have the opportunity to show themselves and to discuss all of this that you have presented. In accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 17th session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company, d.o.o. with the final proposal of the law. 2. Final draft law on humanitarian demining. 3. Final draft law on special rights in the pension insurance of demining employees, second reading. And four. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and part of a member of the management of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act on the division of the company HZ, Hrvatska zelice d.o.o.? There is. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, I'd like to remind you that yesterday... addressed in the procedure of the Amendment to the Law on Profit Tax and the Proposal for amendments to the Transport Act, supported by 25 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, to be included also in the additions to today's agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45821	My colleague Pacek, please, ask for this bill of law, which is now being discussed, oh, yes or no, in an emergency procedure? That, do you have an objection to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45822	I have a question about an emergency procedure before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45823	No, on this proposal for a law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45824	Should I call back later, then?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45825	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45826	You want me to call back later or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45827	Later, yeah, on this one. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Order! Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45828	Mr. President, I object to the application of the emergency procedure under this Act, and otherwise, I do not think that the agenda of 24 should be completed, just over 24 hours before the constitutional time limit for the session expires, the regular session. I'm not sure I can even get the working bodies to do it so we can have a valid debate tomorrow, and it's a very, very important law that needs to actually create a real presumption for the privatisation of Croatian railways. For this reason, I ask first of all not to accept an emergency procedure, so that the possibility of not putting that item on the agenda in the regular sessions is reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45829	And a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45830	Well the same Mr. President, I'm shocked that so, the situation on the railroad is so dramatic. I worked for three months and talked to people. We need to understand that it's the last big system, we can't until tomorrow, we stop working tomorrow, we discuss the law. Well, that's something scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45831	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45832	Mr. President, on the basis of Article 229, I ask that the vote be held by raising my hand because part of the MPs do not have a key in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45833	Thank you. I am voting to include this emergency procedure. Who's in, please? Thank you. Against? 71 for seven abstentions. Does anyone comment on the application of other proposed items to the agenda? On the agenda others, therefore, this Law on humanitarian demining on special pension rights. Here you go, dear representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45834	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the club of all pyrotechnicians and the HSP club, I thank you for putting these laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45835	Thank you. We continue with this topic of previous debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45836	I'm asking you now to explain what I couldn't do before. In fact, there have long been announcements in front of the government that they will refer to the procedure of amending the Transport Act. I'll remind you, it's a train park in Croatia that's over 18 years old and unless we discuss it now by the end of the year, craftsmen and others carrying out transport in Croatia won't be able to transport vehicles over 18 years old. That's exactly why this is being sent to emergency procedures. You got that proposal. He was signed by more than 25 MPs, so I am interested in why this proposal was not also put on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45837	That bill that I think you are, along with Agent Kolar, came to my office yesterday afternoon. I will consider it during today and a proposal for its inclusion in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have completed the 17th marathon session that lasted without interruptions for six weeks. And the period this year in the work of the Croatian Parliament, together with this session, was the intensity and quantity, the number of sessions held, adopted, discussed laws and other decisions so far the most dynamic period in the work of the Croatian Parliament. I wish you all a merry Christmas and wish you all a Happy New Year and every good thing to you and your families in 2006. I'm closing the 17th session. The session is completed at 16.46 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45850	Mr. President, I'm referring the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Mr. Vice President, during the period from 91 to 97, nearly 50,000 Croatian pensioners did not receive their pensions due to wartime circumstances. The agreement between the government that you led and concluded with the pensioner party not only did it not consider the problem in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to pay back the pensioners for the period from 93 to 98. But according to that agreement, these people will be punished twice, so they will not be included in the return of debt to pensioners for the period from 93 to 98. Mr Vice-President, how is it possible for the Government, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, to resolve the issue of one injustice, and on the other hand, the issue of this kind of injustice is not resolved, or once again, this injustice is potentiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45851	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking the question of a respected parliamentary representative. When we talk about the compensation of the pensioners, we must all remember together that, therefore, the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision clearly defined which pensioners have the right to compensation. I will remind you all all once again that these are users of age, early age, disability and family pensions, achieved under the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance for the period from 1 September 93 to 31 December 98. The fact includes 674 thousand 668 pensioners, of whom there are now 424 thousand 744 pensioners. The team that I led and the talks and the negotiations that I co-ordinated with representatives of pensioners' associations and Croatian pensioners' parties, we worked primarily to define how to compensate those who have the right to do so. Once again, the Law implementing the Constitutional Court has clearly defined who has the right to compensation. With this in mind, we have prepared a brochure that will soon be made clear, where all these details are clearly defined and clarified. And if there is anything after that clarification that will remain hanging in the air, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45853	Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45854	Mr. Vice President, I have to admit I didn't realize you answered my question. I with my own, those who have authorized me to ask this question do not know whether they will be covered by the return of debt to the pensioners or not. Just as I don't know what actually happened to that money that wasn't paid to those who got it, earned it and who couldn't take it because of the different circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45855	Thank you. The esteemed prisoner Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45856	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, who I welcome to the head of the Croatian government and all the members. Mr President, right after the negotiations with the European Union began, you said that Croatia will lead the policy in two directions. According to the European Union and to the region. What Bosnia and Herzegovina as its neighbour with which Croatia has the longest limit, solid historical and economic and other connections, can expect from the Croatian government and you personally. Now and in the future when it comes to European integration. What Croatians, a constructive people in Bosnia and Herzegovina can expect from Croatia as co-signatures of Dayton, at a time when the International Community is working on constitutional changes and searching for the best and fair solution of all peoples and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45857	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45858	Mr. Representative, I think the time has come for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be emancipated politically. So, politically, it starts to be much more independent than the International Community than it is today. 10 years after Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves full emancipation in political terms, but these emancipations cannot be done unless the rights of the Croatian people who are equal, constitutive, sovereign with the other two peoples, Serbs and Bosniaks are respected. And in this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will support as the executive power co-signator of the Dayton Agreement every agreement between the three peoples on the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina that all three peoples accept. There can be no overvote, our position cannot be 2-1, but that all nations must agree on the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and constitutional changes that are on the agenda must be so and therefore we will also take up our bilateral relations, so in talks with the state leadership of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in our contacts with the international community that Croats cannot lose this status at any cost of equal people, sovereign and constitutional people. When it comes to European integration, we see Bosnia and Herzegovina's future in common Europe, together with Croatia, in a united Europe, and it is certain that the start of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union was also good news for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I personally hope that the European Commission will very soon accept a positive feasibility study, and that a decision will be taken to start Stabilisation and Association negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but since this happens in a very complex and important time in which Bosnia and Herzegovina's future is decided, I repeat again and through my direct contacts with Bosnia and Herzegovina's state leadership, of course also in consultations with the political leadership of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also through contacts with the international community, will play an active role, because we care primarily about the safe, independent, sovereign Bosnia and Herzegovina in which Croats will be an equal people and Bosnia and Herzegovina who will have their future in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45859	Thank you. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45860	I thank Mr. President for a very clear answer and I use the opportunity to say that Croatia has made an unprecedented effort during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina until then to help the humanitarian and each other in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that any air, land or sea assistance has come through Croatia and today 10 years after Dayton and the end of the war, the democratic BiH public expects much of Croatia and of you Mr. Prime Minister as an undisputed leader in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45861	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45862	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Madam and Mr. Vice President, gentlemen and Madam Secretary of State. My question was addressed to Mr Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. It is known that Croatian shipowners own ships and other vessels that have served and carried out inspections and repairs at the "remont shipbuilding site Sisak" which has, however, stopped operating and has long been bankrupt. Please answer my question what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done so far, what is it planning to do and what measures will be prescribed to ensure the safety of navigation in order to enable repairs and inspections of ships and other inland vessels, which is a legal obligation, and the fact that for many years the river vessels have been forced to perform repairs in neighbouring Hungary, Serbia-Montenegro? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45863	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45864	Thank you. The government is investing great attention, but also considerable financial resources, which is very important for the development of internal navigation in Croatia, because internal navigation is something that is most profitable in terms of transport and the whole of Europe is increasingly based on its transport and transport through internal navigation. The fact is that this has been marginalized with us, but lately there have been real developments in the maintenance of this system, but also in boating, as more and more private shipmen want to rebuild their fleet and deal with this activity. We, when we talk about a trip to Sisak, exactly that the shipyard went bankrupt, but we, as a ministry, or the government through the port administration of Sisak, invested considerable financial resources in the construction and training of this tour so that more than 20 million kuna was invested in order to bring all this into operation. It is now in this situation to wait for a valid permit and it is likely to begin the journey very soon. It is 80 metres in size, so it will be able to receive ships up to 80 metres in size and ships up to 400 tonnes in size and will be made, that is, by all European standards, and it is in fact the only way to service river ships in Croatia, which is also the basis for revitalisation and development of the "remont Shipyard Sisak" which will be able to clearly get out of this situation in which it is, but with the rest it will require the involvement of local self-government. And another word, when we talk about the safety of navigation, then we must only say that in the 6th month in Zagreb, the headquarters and the established Sava Commission is established, it is an international commission, it is a pandan of the Danube Commission. It will take care of the Sava River Basin, the funding conditions for the construction of waterways, of safety, of all that is important for sailing. So, overall looking at it seems to me, and I'm sure when it comes to internal navigation that they've been made and that big steps are being made in that part of the traffic, I said the beginning is the most rewarding. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45865	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45866	Thank you very much. I express my satisfaction so far achieved, however, both I and the river boaters who, as we know, are in a very difficult position exactly because of what the remonts must do on foreign shipyards, we will be even more satisfied when the "remont Sisak shipyard" is in full operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45867	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45868	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. I manage my question to the Ministry of Economy, and it refers to a difficult situation in the textile and leather-wearing industry. We all know, of course, that this is a work-intense activity where more than 38 thousand employees work, mostly women, that these are relatively low wages, and that they are mostly dealing with an up-to-date business, so I want to know what the government and the ministry are planning to do and when to make the situation in this area and that branch better? I ask the Secretary of State to answer me when there is no Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45869	Thank you. State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45870	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, here's only a brief answer to your question. So, considering the extremely difficult situation as you mentioned in these branches, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has, in its programmes and plans for 2005, also for 2006 and 2007, provided for a financial basis for the implementation of the programme that has been defined to help the industry, i.e. to change the structure of that industry. Normally, all of these plans worked in agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce with the association of textile and clothing activities, the association of leather and footwear activities, the Croatian Employers' Association, the Association of textile and leather industries as well as the Trade Union. So projects and programmes aim to develop their own products, to educate the staff themselves, to introduce new qualities, to adopt and develop new technologies, means that this industry could be equally worn on the world market and to get the right place to belong to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45871	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45872	I thank Mr. Secretary of State, and I hope that those industries from the textile and leather and shoe industries that have remained, which have not failed so far, and also in the Koprivnica-Crysing County from which I come, and they also have difficulty in using these funds and, of course, survive in the increasingly demanding market. I thank Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45873	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45874	Your Honor, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 37(3) found that at least once a year the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report to the Croatian Assembly on the implementation of this Constitutional Law and on the spending of the funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. The constitutional law was passed on 13 December 2002, it entered into force in 23.12.2002. The government of the Republic of Croatia has so far failed to submit any report, although the Constitutional Law has been in force for almost three years. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has four times writtenly asked the Government to submit a report in accordance with the provision of the Constitutional Law. 26 May, 12 July, 15 September 2004 and 9 June 2005 with one rush since 7 January 2005. At its 11th session in autumn 2004, the Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion, quote, "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to comply with Article 37. Constitutional law" etc. "to file a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law." Unfortunately, it's not the only conclusion on this subject that this House is, we MPs voted. At the 14th session held in June 2005, when a debate was held on the proposal of the Annual Accountancy of the State Budget for 2004, the Parliament again reached a conclusion in which the Government is tasked to submit a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days, and to the same extent that the reply to the Croatian Assembly for which it has failed to fulfil its obligation set out in Article 37. It all turns out that not only does the Government not implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities but it does not respect and implement the conclusions of this House of Commons. Mr Prime Minister, today is the 9th November 2005, three years since the adoption of the law and following a series of consecutive requests by representatives of national minorities through the committee and after two duties on the basis of the conclusions of this House, whether or not the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit this report or continue to violate and implement the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, thereby pushing under the carpet the question of bilinguality, media and information in minority languages until the adoption of an implementing act on the material rights of councils and councils of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45875	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45876	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, I will answer all the questions that you have raised in your parliamentary question and I will begin to conclude that the government, which is correct, has not yet delivered a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities does not mean that it does not implement that law. That's two important differences. Therefore, two important, two very important segments and I will say that this government has done more than any previous government has ever done on the basis of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. And in that sense, I want to say very clearly, so the fact that the report has not yet come to the Croatian Parliament does not mean that the Constitutional Law does not apply. There is a problem as we know in its application, and you and I know that and we are working on it and when it comes to the reasons why it has not yet come to the Croatian Parliament, why the report has not yet come, I will specify only one thing. Since this is the first report we have prepared for many years and we have not reached today, it is over but is in the co-ordination of the Government, it will soon be in the Government, we will refer it back to this meeting in the Croatian Parliament and in this sense we will fulfil this legal obligation and obligations arising from the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. But I repeat again. It is a form to be respected and important but much more important to see where all the law is implemented, where it is not implemented. There are problems as we know about radio shows, television shows that we've talked about a lot, we'll try to make it right. It's not all about the government. There are a lot of problems and a lot of tasks to be done by other institutions, other bodies. For example, Croatian Radio Television is not the government's task to ensure that Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio meet their obligations but, for example, when it comes to units of local self-government and administration, there is the Central State Administration Office. So there's a problem, but I can say it one more time. The firm orientation of my government and this parliamentary majority that all Croatian citizens are equal before the law and that minorities need special attention precisely because they are minorities of this policy, we will not give up that orientation. That there will be problems in our walk in the application of this law probably will continue in the future but it is up to us to work together to make every Croatian citizen feel in the right sense the word equal before the Constitution, in front of the law with all the rights and responsibilities that arise from this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45877	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45878	I thank Mr. Prime Minister, but the fact is that it is a form but it would probably force this form to do exactly what you finally told the local self-government unit to do, too, to approach the implementation of this law because they have very high-quality excuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45879	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45880	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to refer my question to Ms. Vesni Skare-Ozbolt. In fact, Madam Minister, we have recently had the opportunity to learn that your ministry has moved to new larger areas owned by Croatian television in Dježman Street on 6th and 10th here in Zagreb. So you've increased the space for the ministry administration from 2,000 700 square meters to approximately 4000 150 square meters. However, all of this will cost taxpayers a year instead of just over 30 thousand kuna per contract with the City of Zagreb, more than 4 million kuna per year. I ask you to explain to the Croatian public, or to the taxpayers, how in this way your ministry has actually become the most destructive ministry when it comes to the space you use and at the same time the courts' buildings, the prisons cry out for investment and the court cases stand unresolved before the statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45881	Thank you. Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45882	I thank you, Madam Representative, for this matter. I think it's good for the public to hear the real information. The Ministry of Justice for your information worked until the fourth month of this year at 11 locations in the City of Zagreb. The ministry of justice has increased by increasing its activities by setting up the situation in land books, resolving the state of affairs and fully informing the system. From 11 locations we have now moved to the location in Djmanov, so we have shortened or reduced the number of locations to six. The Commission's decision and government and contract concluded with the Ministry of Justice reached an agreement as reached. For your information contract, all decisions and how much savings are made at this time by the Ministry of Justice in relation to all those locations at which the Ministry of Justice has previously been on the website of the Ministry of Justice since the 4th month of this year. So, full information, contracts, prices, all of you are publicly transparent on the portal of the Ministry of Justice. I'm surprised that only now has this topic and this question come to the agenda. There were a lot of current watches before that, and I invite you to read a lot more information on the Ministry of Justice portal in the future because you'll get full information there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45883	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45884	Madam Minister, I read a lot and you have no right to call me this way. Secondly, Madam Minister, the fact is that for that space on Dzhman Street, you will each year set aside 4 million kunas of rent. I've been a little bit of a yearly review of the cost of other ministries, I don't think it goes far behind you, that the ministry led by Mr. Kalmet is more twice behind you. At the same time, the 4 million kuna is also more than what you have set out for the Centre for the Training of Judges and for the part relating to the adaptation of legislation to the European Union. And finally, I hope you will explain in writing whether there was a public tender in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and whether it was really not possible to find a cheaper space in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45885	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45886	Mr. Prime Minister, you recently reminded us in the Croatian Assembly of the words of the late Yugoslav dictator, "we will not, we will not." However, with the practice of selling the entire islands in the Adriatic, the Croatian government has unfortunately introduced another novelty in Croatia, which is that even the entire river islands disappear. Namely, Republika Srpska dug up the entire river island by digging up gravel in the Union, and part of the coast thus entered 200 metres across the Croatian border, thus defacto took away and carried away 200 metres of Croatia. Why don't you, Mr. Prime Minister, keep your mouth shut about it, or why don't you do anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45887	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45888	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in your question, you said why is the government selling islands, the government, but what did you say? I think that, no, no, you said, that the government after it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45889	I'll do it again, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45890	You can't, please, you didn't get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45891	I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45892	You can't say that again. Here you go, Prime Minister. You can't say that again. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45894	Mr. Prime Minister has misunderstood.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45895	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45896	Or heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45897	What he understood or heard, that's his business, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45898	I didn't mention government... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45899	- Hey! - Hey! - Hey!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45900	In your question, Mr. Representative, you said the government sold islands in the Croatian Adriatic [[I didn't say.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45901	Please welcome Prime Minister, answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45902	Mr. Representative. [[I didn't say that!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45903	No, there's no such communication. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45904	There is no such communication. There's a question and an answer, it's just the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45905	You will say so through your response to the expression of satisfaction or dissatisfaction when you come after this answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45906	I'd be happy to take a look at you together after the stenogram and we'll see what you said, but about what I think, here's how much I see by the reactions of others that you said that, but if you didn't, I accept it, and then that's okay. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not sell any islands, nor will they sell islands, even moreover, we will ask the island's owner, the island's owner, that the state, or units of local or regional self-government, have the right to buy first. Therefore, we will find ways to protect and protect this, because I am also against the sale of Croatian islands. The same applies to all others, both the pustules and when it comes to the distinction between Republika Srpska and Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, this government will insist on those borders of the Republic of Croatia, which were established by the Badinter Commission when it found Yugoslavia's collapse on the basis of which it was said that all the borders of the former Socialist republics are the borders of emerging countries and be sure that this government will know how to protect Croatian interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45907	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45908	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, but indeed Republika Srpska has entered 200 metres across the border and is digging gravel into the Union. Despite your response, we in HSP are, you know, concerned about such a fact because Mr. Prime Minister, it's still not about the Drina border, it's about the Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45909	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45910	I thank Mr. President, I would like to address my question to the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, or here to the present Mr. Secretary of State for Primary Education. And the question concerns experimental implementation of HNOS elements in individual primary schools. It seems to me that the public is not sufficiently familiar with all that the implementation of these elements of HNOS means for the entire education system, i.e. for society as a whole. Therefore, in particular, I am interested to know whether or not there are difficulties in implementing the HNOS elements, whether there are positive effects in the implementation. And I'm also interested in what the ministry does to get the public through the media as clear as possible, which means the application and implementation of the elements of HNOS, I don't think they even know what HNOS means, at least not most of the citizens. So here is my question, specifically to the application and implementation of HNOS elements in primary schools selected in this experimental programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45911	Thank you. State Secretary for Primary School. Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45912	Thank you, Mr. Representative, I would like to say that today's experimental program "Croatian National Education Standard" is being implemented in 49 Croatian schools, which accounts for 5% of Croatian schools. I want to tell you that we are very pleased with the current application, the Ministry has attended all schools and we have informed an operational team at the very school that monitors the conduct of HNOS and the main feature of HNOS is in fact, in a new way of teaching that goes from the classroom. So so far, the classic paradigm we know about frontal classes is completely changing in a different way of teaching where knowledge is extremely important but is also complemented by skills, abilities and habits and values that need to be adopted by the student and to come up with these achievements that according to the subjects and teaching topics seem to be. It's one big change that's just going on inside and one big observation that we've had these few months is the fact that teachers have been extremely involved in this project and on an exceptional enthusiasm within. That's something very good. Something about a guarantee of HNOS implementation, we also have an operational headquarters at the Ministry that monitors. So then we have a team at each school and on the other hand we organized an independent external evaluation of the entire project, so at the end of June 30th next year we will get a complete picture of HNOS introduction. I want to say, even here, since this is one big change that the education system is catching, first of all, that we want to do this these months, we're going to come harder to the public, to just show what these changes are and how we can show the public how the whole project is going. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45913	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45914	I thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. It seems to me that it is really very important first of all to get to know the public with everything that HNOS brings especially with change. But I also find it necessary for the ministry to be more actively involved in such a media presentation whether through educational programmes of various media and in other ways by printing publications. That's why I really expect it to happen in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45915	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45916	Thank you, Mr. President. A question for the government, for Madam Vice President. After a long time, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to conclude an interstate agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the resolution of certain rights of the victims of the Croatian Defence Council. The decision is to welcome, since we have pointed out the illegality and not the justice of the existing system of care for the victims of the Croatian Defence Council. I note that for 6391 users from the Mirovinski Fund, the victim of the Croatian Council of Defence stands out about 423 million kunas a year, i.e. that was the 2003 data. However, after the decision was made in the less than a week, some members of the government, as well as the victims' associations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, began to interpret it differently. So it remains unknown how many persons will be covered as well as how much funds from the Croatian Budget will have to be allocated. You will agree that this has already begun to leave certain doubts in the assessment of its feasibility and fairness. By believing that you know what the article 6 says. The draft contract proposal, the question is how many persons will be covered by the contract and how many will the Republic of Croatia need to allocate annually for this purpose? I would like to ask precise numerical data because I believe that this issue should reach consensus here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45917	Thank you. Vice-President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45918	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, of course, this government fulfils its constitutional obligation to care and family, but also wartime military people, but also this government does or does the job that had to be done and done long before. You know well, Mr Pancic, that we discussed this problem at the time of the Croatian Defence Ministry's handover, and that job should of course be, I repeat, finished long before. Of course, as a responsible government, we have considered very well all aspects of this contract. We have worked in detail, for a long time in a joint commission with representatives and victims' associations from Bosnia and Herzegovina and have come with this proposal for a contract that is before you, which you are, which will probably come soon for ratification I hope in the Croatian Parliament and of course we have accurately calculated how many persons you will refer to and of course to what part or piece of the State budget. I was surprised by your public statements because during the recent debate on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in 2004 you asked panicously where is this agreement, where is this contract? They realized he'd never sign. Now that the government has fulfilled its duties, of course, it was with the announcements of the law when you said that the law would not be passed. About the register that we won't bring it. About the Fund that we won't base it, and in the Fund we have 7% of the shares of HT, 7% of the shares of the INA, as you can see, the Fund works. At this moment, it is one of the strongest funds in Croatia. It was so about everything else that this government announced and what it does, of course, consciously and in accordance with its constitutional and legal obligations. In the first year here is a concrete answer, so we will take care of about 800 families imprisoned, missing and killed members of the Croatian Defence Council, and in two years after that about wartime military disabled people. It's in line with the deal with the victims' associations. Of course, it's not good, Mr. Representative, to scare the public about billions of kunas going to go there, I repeat once again, our constitutional obligation because it's simply not true. It's a hundred million, but you'll get precise calculations when we discuss ratification. And as for your announcements in the media that this is a commitment waiting for the next government and which will be loaded on the back of the next government, I would like to conclude by knowing the political opportunities in Croatia that the next government will be composed by Dr. Sanader, prime minister. Therefore, you have no worries, and you can sleep peacefully. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45919	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45920	Mrs. Kosor, you're the only one hoping for that. That is exactly what I am asking because I know it will come to the agenda of the new government, which I am convinced will not be drawn up by the Croatian Democratic Community Because this is an example of how you work. [[The intruders don't understand.]] My question is exactly how many people will be covered and how much will it cost? If you're already denying me that I'm wrong about my amounts and my estimates, does this mean that you're also denying associations from Bosnia and Herzegovina that have remained shocked by your repeated statements and which claim that there were 8 thousand victims in the conversation who should be retired under this new Contract Proposal, which means [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45921	Order! Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45922	Here's an article from Monday. I spoke with Mrs. Clear Evil, president of the Association of the widows of the Homeland War, and I can say of that lady that she is a hard negotiator, but that she is an honest and honest person.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45923	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45924	And you seem to be defusing her.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45925	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go. Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45926	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45928	I'm asking the Minister of Justice. Predrag Matvejevic, a prominent Croatian writer, a proven human rights fighter and particularly the rights of political convicts from Vatslav Havel to Franja Tudjman, who defended and represented in a series of letters addressed to the then authorities last Wednesday at the Municipal Court in Zagreb, was sentenced to 5 months in prison for alleged insults and slanders by writers Mile Pesvarda. I will not enter into whether what Matvejevic Pesvardi said is only offensive or by the way and true, but I express my view that this vandal verdict is the most difficult insult for all free-minded citizens of Croatia. The shameful verdict of the Honorary Vice-President of the World Pen will be notified by the Croatian PEN or has already informed the international public so that the entire intellectual world will learn about this Croatian shame when free speech fighters are put in jail for spoken or written words. The whole world will find out on the way and what kind of justice we have and what kind of judges we have in this justice system. I ask you, Minister of Justice, what you intend to do in the announced judicial reform so that those who robbed this country, or those who in the silence of Mirogoja, agree to receive bribes, not top intellectuals to whom this country should be proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45929	Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45930	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I cannot agree with you that the verdict may be vandal in this way as you presented it. Namely, this verdict is inadmissible and it is not good to comment on it, but the issue of journalistic slander is what we need to discuss. What we did last year with the latest amendments to the Penal Code practically decriminalized the journalist's slander or by transferring the burden of evidence from the defendant to the prosecutor who in the process must prove the apparent intent of damageing reputation and honor is significantly constrained by this criminal-legal liability so-called. media slander. That's what we did last year with the latest amendments to the Penal Code. And my position on this issue I have to admit is different than the legal solution. We formed this year in the 5th month the Working Party on the harmonisation of legal provisions on slander with the legislation of the members of the European Union. And interesting indicators. From the review of the punitiveness of slander in other Member States of the Council of Europe, it follows that these, not one European state, have decriminalised the crime of slander in the way we have done it. The exception is Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the High Representative of 2002 passed the Law on the Protection against Defamation, which has been defamed from the Penal Code. However, there is, this is a simple decision by the High Representative without some scientific expert debate. In all other European countries, libel is a criminal offence where even the criminal liability of journalists is not excluded. And now, this working group that was preparing the analysis concluded that nothing should change from what we've already achieved as a solution in, as in the amendments to the Penal Code in the seventh month of this year. However, I am announcing here, if these judgments continue, despite decriminalizing the journalistic slander, we will again consider things and see which solutions are best. There are suggestions to leave only fines and the sentence of prison to be removed from this part. However, let us take a closer look at what the future decisions of the courts will look like, and we will also change those provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45931	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45932	You see, Minister of Justice, I cannot be completely satisfied with your response. Because look, if you have decriminalized the insult and slander in the journalistic text as you claim, then how could Judge Lukic give the verdict. How could a writer who wrote something in the paper condemn a slander? Then you'd have a judge, this is not a legal norm problem, it's a judge problem. And you're obviously advocating because you say you disagree with my comment on this national disgrace. You are obviously advocating the ban on commenting on all the inadmissible verdicts, including these, these disgraceful Judge Lukić. You also agree with a judicial association that thus defends itself against the public court for its work and for its dissatisfaction. And as long as this is the case, we will have both Lukic and Lozina and Domić and Viducic, and all of them, all of them who are silent about it, are helping to maintain such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45933	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45934	Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45935	Peace, please peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45936	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45938	I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Professor Neven Ljubic. Encouraged by the news that is being read in the press, and very often as those who are being heard through electronic media, who insist that nothing is being invested in the social care of the Republic of Croatia. I'm undermining this "nothing invests" in both infrastructure and employees. So often a number of several hundred missing employees is quoted in that system almost all profiles. Mr. Minister, how true is that and is that true?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45939	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45940	Thank you. Let me actually say a few words before I answer this question, a conclusion that we actually met in December 2003. Namely, here's referring to what I actually heard, and that's me being transparent. So I'll tell you what we found in December 2003. We found a catastrophic state, a catastrophic state where the total sub-capacitation of the social care center actually ruled. Social care centres are actually the backbone of the social care and social system in the Republic of Croatia. That system has to work. And if it works in that system on average between 32 and 64% of highly skilled employees, we can't expect that system to work. And that's exactly what we've actually found. We found 18 capital investments that were a total failure. 13 of them had no project documentation. So these are the consequences of saying the coalition governments and the programme that was implemented in social care. However, this required hard work. It was these two years that we hired over two hundred highly skilled employees at 115 centers and branches, so the social care centres are outposts. In this way, the capacitation of professional services is between 70% and 85%. It's something that's the fact that I want this moment to be made public. At the same time, we end 18 capital investments, capital facilities. All of us are witnesses, therefore, that social care users have spent many years in the former state housed in all kinds of villas in any inappropriate facilities. So it's up to us now to change that. I'll just say one more thing because this is a unique occasion. Believe it or not, which is the average age of vehicles to be provided to help people on the ground in social care was over 15 years. 110 new cars, 12 vans, among them the largest number of vehicles for people with special care. Here, that's the result of what we do and what we want to do. Here, let me just say one more word, two more to announce another project here, and this is a project of hiring and hiring psychologists in, therefore, homes for children. It's another big step for which this government certainly knows how and has opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45941	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45942	Yes, Mr. Minister. I've been in social services for 158 years, and I know the needs are very high, and we'll never get enough in this area. But if problems are solved systematically, in accordance with financial needs and according to priorities, then of course the outcomes won't be questionable, they'll be positive. And to the joy of that, the city of Split solves its big problem. The Centre for Social Care in the city of Split, i.e. its workers, will be able to work more conditionally, and to the joy of the County of Split-Dalmatia, which receives the County Centre for Social Care in order to solve problems more effectively and faster in its county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45943	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45944	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm asking Mr. Minister Calmetti. I live in close proximity to the Zagreb Airport and speaking with people of the large area, but I also listen to the city of Zagreb that in the last weeks and months from different sources in the public, different information is being placed about the status of the project of the new airport passenger terminal Zagreb. The various entities and individuals interested in financing this project and entering the property structure of the Zagreb Airport are also mentioned. Mr. Minister, I am interested in what is the status of this project, what funding models are being considered and when will the government make and what decision regarding the Zagreb Airport terminal?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45945	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45946	I thank you, Mr. Representative. The project of the airport, i.e. the construction of a new passenger terminal and stage in Zagreb Airport, is one of the development projects that this government is preparing and which we will be happy to implement. We are making very intensive preparations for the start of the implementation of this project and for the initiative of the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader, the President of the State, Mr. Mesic, also joined the City of Zagreb through his mayor and through his services, because the City of Zagreb also participates in the ownership of that airport with 35%. So, there is one consensus, I would say, about the need to build a new passenger terminal and a stalemate in Zagreb Airport. Preparations on the project and preparations for the implementation of the project are very complex because it is indeed a major investment, a major operation, but it will certainly start as soon as these preparations and activities are completed. Right now, I don't know, a master plan that determines... long-term development until 2030, the development of the airport, the development of studies on models of possible funding for this whole thing is over. A precise assessment of air traffic is being carried out by 2030. The master plan is coordinated with the general urban plan of Zagreb County and with the spatial plan of the town of Velika Gorica. The area that the Ministry of Defence will apply to the Zagreb Airport for the implementation of the project and for the construction of this station and terminal, and the procedure for the transfer of the land is under way. The issue of a principal location permit is ongoing, etc. etc. So, systematically, this project is being prepared. What we're doing right now is consulting how it's all expensive and what model to finance. There are more models or classical concessions or a strategic partnership model or a model that we have been thinking about most recently and consulting here with the City of Zagreb, so the model of self-financing. When we define one of these models, it is clear that this will be discussed both at the Government and the Government will ultimately take a position on how and how to finance the construction of this extremely important infrastructure facility. I think we're at the end of all the preparations, and I believe that over the next year and start working on this extremely important infrastructure transport, whatever you want, the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45947	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45948	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive response. But I'm asking you nicely, you mentioned these three strategic funding models. I would be extremely pleased if we put first a model of self-financing by the Zagreb Airport based on bank loans or other modern forms of such funding. Because by analysing the transfer and disadvantages of each of these models, we come to the inconclusive fact that the market value of Zagreb Airport is relatively small and should then be, and the price of capital is large and that the market opportunised value is first increased through the process of reconstructing and starting the project through the mobilisation of domestic sources of funding, relying on the strong company of Zagreb Airport. I think the main idea is actually in the administration of the Zagreb Airport as far as I think it is, that is the affirmation of the Zagreb Airport conducts a rehabilitation in this region in the context of entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45949	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45950	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45951	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45952	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, at this point the ITAS workers are strikein' hunger because they're out of a job. So there is no doubt that employment, or the problem of unemployment, is one of the biggest problems in Croatia both the former governments and yours, will be one of our problems in general in Croatia. I hope this problem in ITAS will try to solve the government as it solved in Valpo, but my question concerns what you did this summer. You have abolished the National Employment Action Plan even though it has directly contributed to 80,000 people, i.e. Croatian citizens. We see that employers are now dissatisfied because they owe them a boost. From the accounts of the Fund for Development and Employment, for this purpose, more than 200 million kunas should be paid in respect of orders from the Croatian Employment Fund which are not available. My question is: Given the complexity of this unemployment problem and the attempt to get rid of it, I would really like to hear from you as prime minister why Mr. Sanader abolished the National Employment Action Plan and thus damaged both Croatian citizens and unemployed and employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45953	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45954	Mr. Representative, you've asked a few questions, and I think it's two of the most important. One thing is why the government abolished something that was weak and bad from the last government, so because it was bad and it showed no results and we ended it, and we're going to replace the new employment action plan in collaboration with the unions and it's going to be much more efficient and efficient. That's the answer to this last question. And the answer to the first question when it comes to ITAS, so I think you'll agree with me, that we can no longer or want to go back to socialist self-government. There are owners, the owners are the private owners of that ITAS company. What the government will do is we will try to solve it, the Minister of Economy Vukelic said in public on Croatian television yesterday, we will try to see how the inclusion of electricity through HEP can help the situation. But what you can't get to this government and me and the Croatian Democratic Community, which is that when something private property is then social property and nobody in Croatia including you today is telling you where you are privates, so where is this mayor who is the godless shadow prime minister, why Mayor Cacic doesn't solve that problem because he was quite involved in the whole story about ITAS, I don't know how directly or indirectly, but it's about his county so let's see here to show how much he's involved as mayor so maybe we'll take him a little more seriously as one four or five prime ministers in the shadow. Therefore, it is a private company,...... Comrades, I'd like you to let me finish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's about a private company...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45955	Do not throw away then do not cause reactions. Please, peace in the assembly room. Here you go, Prime Minister. ... There's no throwing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45956	Well, those who felt called came forward. I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45957	Please continue to answer the question of the Prime Minister, and you refuse to throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45958	So it's that ITAS is a private company, that these privates have to solve the problem that they created themselves, and I fully sympathise with the workers, and the government will do everything if Mayor Cacic and County of Varazdin who is quite involved in this case cannot solve it then the government will be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45959	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45960	But, Mr. Prime Minister, you found these privates, the government found these privates who bought ITAS and who are doing what they're doing now. And the other thing, if you could solve Valpovo, what I say is that you solve it, solve ITAS the same way. As for the action programmes, Mrs. Sobol asked this question in the fifth month, Mr. Leko a few months later. Always the same answer – action programme. In two years, Mr. Prime Minister, it's gonna take you two years for him to start working, to bring it in at all, and that ex you call "bad" is 80,000 people hired, and these strike hunger while you bring in that program.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45961	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45962	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr. Bozidar Calmeta. Mr. Ministers last tourist season in 2005 was declared one of the most successful until now and during that season, changes to the legal rules governing the payment of tourist tax and income tax on renting in a flat-rate amount. My question is, what results have we achieved in private accommodation, or what effects of the cereal? And are there any other measures and changes in this extremely significant segment of our tourist offer that accounts for more than 40% of the total accommodation capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45963	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45964	The measures, i.e. amendments to the Law adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government on the Law on Income Tax and the Law on residence tax, have indeed proved to be very successful during this tourist season. Namely, this is the best tourist season ever and in all indicators. It is indisputable that we have 8% more overnight than last year and 7% more arrivals compared to last year. So there are 10 million tourists, over 50 million overnights, etc., which we've never had before. However, directly related to the amendments to the Law by the Croatian Parliament is that we have a 20% increase in private accommodation. Of course, this percentage is very much related to these measures that have been adopted. And not only that, but contrary to what has been said, that private tenants, in view of these types, will cancel this activity, we in the past year, or this year, will have an increase of 4 thousand private tenants who are engaged in this activity. That's about 9% compared to last year. So, absolutely, these measures were good and they proved to be good. They still have certain shortcomings. I used to say that here in front of this House when we were making this bill, the amendment of the law. That we will follow, see that for the next season we will make certain adjustments in improving these amendments to the laws that we have passed. By the way, when we talk about the next tourist season and the fight against the gray economy, certainly the State Inspectorate Act that this House voted for will certainly help us to have much, much less grey activities in the tourism zone in Croatia in the next season.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45965	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45966	I thank you for your response, and we are all very happy that these legal changes have received such results. I also hope that the extended powers of the Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate will enable effective control of unregistered tenants, whether domestic or foreign, who actually make exceptional revenues and laugh to inspectors, the whole system and all registered tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45967	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45968	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd have one question for the prime minister. It is about the current tax system in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that tax reform has been announced in the country for a long time because it is obvious that such a law as it exists in the past is not good and does not guarantee even regional development in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a fact that the City of Zagreb has a budget much bigger than all the budgets of the units of local administration and self-government, or as someone likes to say, the rest of Croatia. I'm also going to give an example of a lack of logic or injustice. This is an example of the state-owned INA company, and it refers to all other state-owned, public-owned enterprises that are developing their business throughout Croatia. So, both in Slavonia and Dalmatia, people pay that fuel, pay it, pay it dearly, pay taxes, and INA pays its profit tax in the City of Zagreb. He would also point out that the profit tax paid in the City of Zagreb is much higher than the total sales tax to be paid in the budget of Osijek-Baranja County. Which is certainly ridiculous. I will set another example when the Government, despite the fact that, despite this bad law, despite this bad law, even past that law, damages local administration units on the ground. We have all witnessed that 360 million kuna taxes, contributions and other commitments to Baranja's "Belja" have recently been written off. Unfortunately, the money the government wrote off is not owned by the government. Almost half of that money is the original income of local units from the Baranja and Osijek-Baranja district. So I'm curious about when the government is going to reform a tax system like this. And I'm also interested in how the government will correct this, let's say, counter-zealous decision that damaged the intentional, probably more units of local administration and self-government in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. I don't have to tell you that it's a word of more than a hundred million kunas and that money means life to people living in that space. Of course, by amending and reforming one of these tax laws, I hope that the areas of Croatia outside Zagreb will no longer be called the rest of Croatia but will become Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45969	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45970	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. I think you've touched a few important questions. First of all, there should be a distinction between tax policy and tax laws and the Law on the financing of local self-government. I think you've mixed each other up a little bit. But there are several important questions that we have talked about several times in the government, and there have also been words in the Croatian Parliament. One issue is the working group already formed by the Ministry of Finance, with co-operation with representatives of the associations of cities and municipalities of Croatia. And this is how more justly to distribute the profits of companies that they make in different parts of Croatia. And now we're in a partnership phase with European countries, let's see how you mentioned the example of INA, there's a number of other firms like that. So, if he makes his profit in Dubrovnik, Osijek, Pula, Vukovar, Split, etc., is it okay to pay all taxes where she is based, so in Zagreb? That's the question, that's the question that we're aware of and who we've potentiated. There's the mayor... Yeah, yeah, that we've been potentialing since the beginning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the beginning of a meeting with coalition partners. You weren't at that meeting, so you couldn't even know that we started it, but in any case after our deal, Mayor Varazdin asked that question in the Parliament. Is that what happened, Mayor? That's right. We therefore take care of this, but we must also see what practice is in European countries. What is the practice in European countries? I'm glad you'll support it when we come up with a solution. So we're still in the comparative study phase to see how it is in other countries, but there's a working group working on it. ... Then please be kind enough to deliver it to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the second question, when it comes to "Bell". You said the state wrote off something that wasn't hers. That's not true. The state wrote off what was possible income, i.e. debt in the budget. That's what we wrote off. We didn't write off anything that wasn't ours, so it means something that belongs to local self-government units. And that we did well is the fact that "Belje" is doing well today and that it is paying both into the state budget and in income to the local self-government unit. Therefore, it was a good move and I think it is a direct contribution from the Croatian government to a much better economic situation in Baranja and Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45971	Thank you. Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45972	Well, I have to admit, I'm not happy with the answer. First of all, I understand the difference between tax laws and the tax system, but so far it's always been like that when someone asks that question saying you don't understand well, the money goes away, and we stay there thinking we don't understand well. The second thing, as far as the Whites are concerned, you must know that, here's the example I'm going to set only in the flat water fee of also renting agricultural land that 50% of that income is the original income, so what these municipalities and cities live on there so you can't claim it's not that money predetermined. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's not coming back because the state wrote it off. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I don't agree with that finding of yours, and I'd like to express my hope that you're going to look at it anyway, and you're going to send that money back, or return that you wrote off to those local administration units, because I believe you don't know exactly what the situation is on the ground there. It's a lot worse than you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45973	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45974	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since there is no Minister Dropulic, I will refer the question to the Prime Minister. Reading the daily newspaper has a lot of articles on illegal construction. Among other things, one of the inscriptions claims that on the island of Vir, which is an example of Croatian lawlessness and construction without construction permits, it was announced that in the beginning of August, or early September after the end of the tourist season, it would take action to bring down the banners of the Ministry of Construction, Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. It is also widely known that politicians and even senior parliamentary officials and their parents were illegally building on the island in the media. One of the pearls is the island of Pag, specifically said the town of Novalja, where the mayor, among other things, along with his private construction ventures, is unlawful, so the city is lawless, and with it he built a stadium, a mall, an overcrowded maritime well-being, parking lots were built, and his statement is that the justification for all that sometimes must be built past the law, because it is thus filled with a higher public interest. So, the fact is that at the same time on the island of Pag, a mall that both a group or a group of citizens made was collapsed, at the same time not on the same island, some other facilities, so here I am asking you a question, Mr. Prime Minister. Are there pressures on the government and on the ministry that there are no equal criteria, because in this way obviously illegal construction is considered to be something legal and something good, and for others, every little thing goes down? To understand you immediately, I do not justify anyone's illegal construction, but I believe that the government and the competent state institutions should have equal or equal criteria for all. So I ask the question is, are they reading newspapers in the ministries and will they treat all citizens in the same way as public officials, just as examples should occur more drastically?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45975	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45976	Mr. Representative, everything you said stands, and the government will fully apply the same legal approach to everyone. There are no exceptions and we have shown this in these two years, not according to public figures, not to celebrities, not to party persons who are currently acting on the responsibility and responsibility for Croatia, nor to others. Therefore, there are none, and this is the example of the destruction of illegal construction that we have shown principles and efficiency. I think it's one of, if we were to talk about something we started Croatia on, there's a lot of it, one of which is that after 50 years, after 45 years of socialism and after 15 or 13 years of illegal construction, we're dealing with this big and difficult problem. And the last government tried to do that, which is to say, and the last government tried it, it wasn't consistent and consistent until the end, so the minister gave up after a few interventions, but we won't give up. If we are to settle this situation, we should make sure that we can also allow the legalisation of what can be allowed, but not according to any archaic party, official or any other way. So, you saw, I don't need to set an example here, among the first to be torn down, were just some former HDZ officials. Therefore, there's no doubt about it, but please? But once again, there's no question at all about going anywhere where it's supposed to crash, where it can be legalized, we're going to allow legalization, because we can't go, of course, it's a healthy rational approach, we can't go into the collapse of everything, but where we need to crash, we're going to crash. And one more thing, this is one of the biggest ventures I'd say the projects of all of us, because one of the greatest ventures and projects of all of us, because if we save space then we've done a great thing. Croatia is becoming more and more top destinations by the latest number of American magazines and the world's first tourist destination, we need to keep space and in this sense we need to put order into this segment. This is why we formed the State Council for the Spatial Planning of Croatia at the beginning of the term of office. The State Council, meanwhile, visited all counties, works full steam in direct co-operation with the Ministry of Construction. I'm asking everyone for another understanding. I know it's hard for a man who invested his money, that it's hard for him to accept it, but we have to introduce in Croatia a rule that the law is above all of us and equal for all. Therefore, we must put an end to illegal construction, and what can be legalized, which can be done in accordance with spatial plans, we will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45977	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45978	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with Mr. Prime Minister's response. In this case, it seems to me that not only the criteria, Mr. President, are enough, but also the priorities, because you said that it had collapsed to former officials. To me, I would be much more content, for example, if the current officials were to collapse, not because of someone else's pit or something, but to show by example what the priorities of this government are. I would ask you to give me an answer in writing, because here you have in today's number of daily newspapers where they say that building permits are issued even there in the area of Rogoznica, although there is neither according to the current nor future plan regulation there is no basis to issue building permits. The Novalja case where everything and everything was being built, I think you'd show the government's priority and seriousness and have the same criteria for everyone. I'd be begging here for those two specific cases to give me a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45979	Okay. Thank you very much. It's a written answer. Please, peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45980	I didn't finish, because the fact that the corruption of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45981	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45982	... And the order on the ladder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45983	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45984	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Prime Minister and Minister. I'm giving my question to Mr. Prime Minister. In the last two years, crime has grown significantly, and this is the most dangerous one. In particular, the number of bandits has increased in the most brutal form. There have been 5 armed robberys of the fina's offices, and the robbers have shown precisely their worst indifference and brutality. In July of this year, as many as seven raids occurred only at 8 o'clock. As a rule, the perpetrators remain unknown. So, this horror and tragedy in broad daylight testify that there are craft killers, reckless killers, criminals from the trade. Here is yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, police officers and security guards who provide buildings of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court were robbed in half-white days of the business of the Croatian Post Office. My question is, what will the government do to make the police at least partially effective in catching these serious perpetrators of the most dangerous crime and to be at least nearly as effective as it was when she pushed the protesters out of the same market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45985	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45986	Madam MPs, I am extremely pleased that you have asked this question because it is being added to that debate from the beginning of today's session of the Assembly when we were just discussing whether it is necessary to go to the emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minimum protection measures in dealing with cash and values. And then, I don't remember how you voted, but I leave it to you to judge your conscience. I just as Prime Minister intervened with a request and appealed to the Parliament, on all of you regardless of which political party you belong to to refer this law to an emergency procedure precisely because of what you are talking about right now. So you're asking me now what the government is going to do. Our answer is here it is. We've sent the law into emergency procedures, one of the measures, not complete. Of course I disagree with you because statistics disprove you that crime is on the rise. Crime is in a slight decline, it needs to be further reduced but. Please, I have listened very closely to you with due respect for the MPs, so I ask you to listen to my answer to the end. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you're in a kind of contradiction at the beginning of the session this morning you were against an emergency procedure and now you're asking me what you're doing. And I'm saying I'm doing this, I'm sending in an emergency procedure, so you guys go ahead and accept it, not vote against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45987	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45988	Mr. Prime Minister is very pleased that I asked this question and I am very glad that I was forced. I'd be happy not to ask you questions like this because it would mean that there are no problems like this. It's not true what you're saying is that crime is dangerous and the hardest to fall. He's on a dangerous rise and there are benign crimes in the fall. That's true. After all, it doesn't have to be Edison to know how to turn on the lamp. That's obvious. And I'll tell you something else. With one law like this, you won't stop it. In fact, it's the exact opposite of criminals who don't even get caught up in these announced long rifles. I don't have anything against long pipes, but first of all, criminals get caught up in long-term intelligence, better organisation, better competence, not putting themselves in the responsible places of political-like people. Therefore, it is obvious that the police, Mr. Prime Minister, have capitulated before a serious crime and thanks to the setting of political personnel and some places continue to stare empty. Therefore, your minister continues to say that he will skin people, that he will be brutal. It's his only to catch the perpetrators, and nothing else, and nothing more, and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45989	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45990	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Namely, the student of the Road Traffic School brutally attacked his professor Mirjana Vidanovic 20 days ago physically. A high school teacher was unexpectedly hit on the head by a truck shift several times during school class. Medical records indicate that the professor was in grave danger. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, Secretary of State! Since the beginning of this school year, a dozen teachers have been physically injured in Croatian elementary and secondary schools for less than two months. Teachers are physically in their workplace in the class attacked by students and parents. I'm not even going to mention here the psychological abuse of teachers who are almost every teacher's everyday life and unfortunately became almost a place at all. The government's programme to prevent violence between children and young people is definitely not showing any or very poor results in this segment. Schools definitely stop being places where students can certainly learn and teachers certainly teach. What I'm asking is, will another teacher be waiting to die in class so that you finally become systematically and effectively involved in violence against teachers and teachers?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45991	Thank you. State Secretary for Primary Education Nevio Šetić. Here you go. Excuse me. Jelimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45992	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam MP, I can answer this question for you next. From the very beginning, so from October 21st when it happened we were immediately informed and about school and we followed that case I would say to this day. You're talking about an increase in violence here. I will tell you right away, in early 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a "National Programme for Combating Violence" that is to prevent violence in which 14 short and 37 long-term measures have been defined and, of course, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has a great task, or a lot of measures that should only be implemented. The Protocol on the Treatment of Violence, which has each school, was further adopted, and the so-called leaders of each school were appointed. preventive activities. So, a thousand 350 heads of preventive activity. Furthermore, 9 hundred teachers were educated in primary schools and in the final phase of education 450 in secondary schools. We hired 150 professional associates because she felt the need for it. In particular, in high school, we have 386 of 373 schools. There's not a single school that's not covered. I won't say that's enough. We will proceed with this process. We have a 21 crisis intervention team that, in cases of violence, actually remedies the consequences of violence. In the amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education, which were required in the union to protect themselves, so teachers of violence cases simply could not find solutions since all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the Constitution. In particular, I must say that the school has acted on protocol from the very beginning, calling for both emergency assistance and police, and all other competent state authorities, therefore social care, informed the ministry and the ministry hired a crisis intervention team that, in cooperation with the Psychological Assistance Society, performed in such situations. A study was carried out, a scientific study led by Dr. Singer, who said that in the last two years, statisticalally viewed violence has been in decline in schools and this has been confirmed by a scientific study by the Institute of Social Research in Zagreb. Of course we're not satisfied with any of this and one phenomenon of violence in our schools because we want schools to be places where zero tolerance for violence will be. We are grateful to everyone in the media and to you, Mrs. MPs, who are asking this question because the public is sensitive to this problem and that the public is actually solidarity with all those over whom violence has been committed, and this certainly leads to violence in society being as little as possible. Our work on this isn't finished, of course. Everything in the National Programme will be realized and hopefully in the future in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45993	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45994	Mr. Secretary of State, I cannot be satisfied with your response because the reaction to these cases is always the same. Disgusting, condemning, sending intervention teams, some protocols, and that's how it works until the next case of violence. This is all you've talked about, but it's a program to combat violence between children and young people, and there's not a single program, based on your written earlier response, nor you systematically handle cases of violence against teachers, nor is there a single program, preventing violence against teachers. Teachers are underpaid, teachers are threatened in their professional and human dignity, and now they experience beating them in class and in front of school. I ask you an additional written answer to the subject that you will take, specifically, to prevent violence against teachers and teachers, and not to answer me about the violence between children, but only violence between parents and students against teachers because we do not have a program today, but just as you have said, we are relieving the consequences. I think it's about time we started preventing these situations from happening as often as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45995	Thank you. So, the written answer to the parliamentary question. I'm setting a break by 12 o'clock. It's time to ask the question of a respected representative, Maria Byte. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing with parliamentary questions. It's time for a respected representative, Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the important branch of the Croatian economy is craftsmanship. A total of 105 thousand 346 active craftsmen with more than 250 thousand employees were registered in the Republic of Croatia. In order to continue the development of crafts and craft workshops in the Republic of Croatia, favourable and stable working conditions should be created, while removing observed problems. As parliamentary representatives, in talks with the craftsmen of Požega-Slavon County, they pointed to difficulties in opening the crafts for which they suggest that the general health capacity as a condition for opening the crafts be deleted if it is not prescribed by a special law. That in the retirement category, it is possible to register a kind of activity in the craft because we know that there is a large number of young pensioners. The duality of registration of one and the same activities in matters of state incentives in agriculture, the question of trade status in relation to employment relationship Article 4, voluntary payment of employment contributions and so on. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what is the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship doing to make it easier to register crafts and adapt to faster development of craft activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45998	Thank you. State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u45999	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Let me tell you in a few words the situation regarding the crafts and activities that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is taking in this area. So the Ministry's activities are aimed at calling it small projects and final activities to change the legal bases for a more high-quality development of the craft itself. I'd like to taxe on some of the activities we've done this year. We are at the very beginning to reduce the financial costs of opening the crafts we reduced the price of the craftsman from 500 kuna to 200 kuna. Furthermore, in order to further facilitate the establishment of crafts, the Ministry has laid down simpler conditions for the performance of crafts, so that part of the activities for which a mastery examination has been prescribed may be performed by persons with completed relevant medium-sized expertise. Of the larger projects of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, professionally and advisoryly supported the introduction of "one stop shop" a unique place where entrepreneurs will be able in the fastest possible way to register crafts as normal and businesses and, following that Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, actively participates in the Government of the Republic of Croatia project through the integration of 160 FINA businesses in which the pilot project of the issue of crafts is carried out. Preparations for the registration of crafts via the Internet are also under way, requiring adequate preparation of legal bases, systematic education and current and future craftsmen and employees performing the registration of crafts. The secret liberalisation in the performance of crafts and in the enrollment of craftsmen in the Croatian Trade Register, with a view to drawing up a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on crafts which the so-called supplemental work, domestic work or secondary occupation which includes also doing crafts by pensioners as you mentioned. And normally, overall, it wants to determine simpler conditions for access to the master's exam. To only perhaps make it more clear what the trends of these measures are this year. A total of 11 thousand and 700 crafts have been registered to this day. Unfortunately, 8 thousand and 700 turns have been extinguished as such. But we have a positive balance of nearly 3,000 new trades. By the end of the year, we're expecting four thousand newly founded crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46000	Thank you. Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46001	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this part of course, I can say that I am pleased because I support everything that will simplify the work in the crafts to also open new jobs as changes and additions to the law that I hear you are preparing because it is very important that those risks that the new craftsman enters are not available, that he can make maximum commitment to activities, not that he is busy with the administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46002	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46003	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, Prime Ministers and members of the Government, my question will be addressed to Mr. Kalmeta, but since he is not present to Secretary of State Bačić. It refers to speculation that is circulating in public, and it is about a detour around Osijek. Is she going? Are the works done? And is it going according to the plan and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46004	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46005	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the work on the western bypass of Osijek is going towards the planned dynamics. And according to a public road construction and maintenance programme in the Republic of Croatia adopted by the government at the end of last year, Western construction of the west bypass of Osijek is also planned for 11 and a halfkm. The road is two-way with an appropriate steel bridge across Sava. According to the programme, works were also arranged and started before the summer in the total amount of 280 million kuna. According to the project, the works were contracted with 4 performers, with the business group Osijek, Koteks and Hydropower, lowgradnja Zagreb, totalling 240 million kuna. Then the steel section of the bridge across the river Drava was contracted with the "Djuro Đaković" installation from Slavonski Brod in the amount of 20 million kuna. Work on... The existing installations and the installation of new ones were contracted with the company "Dalkovod" from Zagreb in the amount of 7 and a half million kuna, and the supervision of the execution of works is carried out by the Institute of Construction in Zagreb, the business center of Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The planned completion of the works is the beginning of the first quarter of 2007 and on behalf of the Croatian Roads can say that the works towards existing dynamics, established dynamics according to the contract, will be fully completed within that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46006	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46007	I am pleased with the answer and I thank you for this detailed response and I hope that before the deadline the work will be done and that even those speculating today will see for themselves the progress and rapid construction of this bypass.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46008	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46009	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Mrs. Jadranka Cigelj, head of the Croatian Government Association Office in one of the interviews in one of the newspapers, presented her reviews and views on civil society in Croatia, which I personally consider to harm the reputation of the Republic of Croatia both at home and outside, and would not be a problem with her personal views if she were not the head of the Office. So I'm just asking in that context. In these assessments and statements, some of the civil society organisations allegedly participated in the border of high treason and went without sanctions. Some organizations receiving donations from abroad should be asked when will donors apply for counter-services? The claim is made that practically only in 1993 in Croatia begins the development of civil society and problems a legal solution that enables 3 citizens to establish an association of civil society areas. And final quote: This was the case where donors who gave financial resources on their bad intentions and satisfied their appetites by calling on civil sector representatives to international conventions. These representatives in their intentions of advocacy or perhaps worse could have gone to the point that they were muddying Croatia. I resent the policy of the former and present who does not follow these people to what extent some things are at these conventions. Meanwhile, information has also appeared that this same office has been ordered, received and paid, so please confirm or deny this information strategy for supporting and encouraging the development of civil society and that around 150 thousand kunas have been paid for it. In the context of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the author of the project is allegedly a connected person with the head of the office... Since you have publicly fenced yourself from Mrs. Zigelj's statements and views whether you will propose her resolution and whether you intend to ask the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest to determine the possible existence of a conflict of interest or whether such allegations of disputes as non-existent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46010	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, it may be good that you once again raised this issue in the Croatian public but the government reacted as we thought it was necessary to react. I will repeat myself for the sake of the Croatian public one more time. First, no civil society development strategy exists. It's about the government's office. The government did not order that document, and there is no such document for us. Of course I'm waiting for the report. Wait, it's not over. Of course I'm waiting for a report to see who did what and who, for whose account. We are waiting for this report and will inform the Croatian public in a timely manner. But I want to say it one more time. Since this is an extremely important segment of Croatian society that I think we all agree on regardless of political differences. So we want the development of civil society in Croatia. And at the government meeting where I have been fenced from Mrs. Zigelj's statements, we have also reached the conclusion that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, is forming a working group in which it will be entirely irrelevant to who the political colours are, but we will care about the formation of such a working group that can give a relevant study, or one civil society development plan. The task force will also include representatives of civil associations, so NGOs. In that interview you quoted, I must say, I have no idea how to comment, but if it's written like that, I'm sure the government doesn't share it personally. But there's one thing. In this hack that has risen against Mrs. Jadranka Cigelj, I think it was necessary to approach, I am now speaking my personal opinion and as Prime Minister, I think I should have approached the "cum branch salis". Separate what I said, fence from these statements, especially a statement on civil society and NGOs, although I agree, and you will agree, that in this sector too needs control and needs of course and control of the funds that are and everything else because it is under the law. No one can be outside the law system in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is, but there is one thing I must say in the defense of Jadranka Cigelj. She's the woman who suffered the greatest tragedy that could have been suffered in the Homeland War. She was the victim of Serbian concentration camps in Bosnia and Herzegovina, she published a book on it, received many international awards and was one of those in Croatia who, in the international community, represented the truth about the Homeland War in the international public, about who was the aggressor in Croatia, who was the aggressor and who was the victim. Therefore, the role of Jadranka Cigelj in a broader sense is extremely positive. This is where she couldn't find herself, behind these views I am not standing, nor is the Croatian Government standing. Therefore, I ask that both her role and the fact that she personally suffered terrible trauma and a terrible sacrifice. Therefore, it should be taken into account, but it does not give it the right to make such statements about civil society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46012	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46013	Thank you very much. Just because of that fact you finally said, I was extremely observant and cautious because these same facts are familiar to me. And I said to separate the citizen's attitudes from the head of the office. That's the same thing that matters. I haven't joined this issue now in any kind of hack against her, but you'll agree with me that this issue is extremely important to clear up because of the future. There were very many people, very many civil society organisations that also defended Croatia's interests in the Homeland War. You haven't answered my question about a possible solution. But I certainly ask that the report you requested in terms of the written answer to the question be brought to your attention and you probably agree that it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46014	Thank you. It's a written answer. Order! Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46015	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Despite the expectations of the public, and especially of our pensioners, I am today not going to ask my question to Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister, when the pensioners will receive the compensation bill, because I want to believe that he will fulfil his obligation as chairman of the Pension Fund Management Board and inform the public. I will ask my representative question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Neven Ljubicic, which is what it says. When will several dozen pensioners, citizens of Croatia, who are resident in Croatia, who are in vain of the Bosnian health insurance bearers of Bosnia and Herzegovina seek valid documentation of obtaining HZZO health certificates and are able to use health care? Most Bosnian-Herzegovina pensioners have come a long way in a forced checkout process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all in order to live normally in Croatia and, like all citizens, to use health care. Ksaver's office was only in the process the service of the Bosnian Herzegovic health insurance bearers. A few dozen of them didn't get the paperwork they needed because of the so-called. the conflict of jurisdiction of Bosnian Herzegovina's insurance companies. Although they can prove how many times they have sought it and for more than a year do not exercise the right to use health care. It is unacceptable for any person to pay the price of the absurd policy of ethnic cleansing that has been exercised and implemented over them because they cannot return home. The average pension they receive is about 600 kuna from Republika Srpska and about 800 kuna from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a delay of several months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46016	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46017	Thank you. This is, I absolutely agree, one of the big problems. But allow me before I actually explain what we're doing in this area, because the thing is very complex that I'm just giving a little bit of clarification on exactly what it's about. In fact, there are actually two agreements, one from 2001, one from 2003 that regulates the system. the agreement and under these agreements is, in fact, that whoever made a pension in a particular entity, regardless of the place of residence, health care is obtained at the place of residence but the costs are settled where he made his pension. Unfortunately, these 2001 and 2003 agreements did not really respect each other's contractual relations between Republika Srpska, or the Federation of BiH, and these agreements have actually made a complicated relationship. Why? Because at the moment there are no mutual claims between the Republika Srpska, or the Federation of BiH. In other words, we provide health care to all those who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and this is not questionable. But right now, we can't charge for it. And that's where the key is actually the problem. Of course, in this situation, we need to send out knowledge and users where the problem is, where the users themselves go often, in this case the problem is with the entities of Republika Srpska, and they are asking them to take steps. That means they pay for that health care regularly. A small number, in fact, is relatively large, as we see it as more than 4000 and 900 people in all, and I have to admit that we first need an agreement between the entities of Republika Srpska, or the Federation of BiH, and of course it will imply the changes to these agreements signed by the coalition government in 2001 and 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46018	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46019	I can only be satisfied with the accuracy of your clarification in the relations of interstate agreements. However, you have not touched these 50 people who, because of the administration of ours and theirs, cannot exercise the right to health care. I believe that these 50 people do not have to endure what they are suffering and that because of these costs of providing them with health care, Croatia would not have failed or stood better, but neither worse than it is now in the health system. I'm asking you for these people to give me a written answer and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46020	Thank you. It's a written answer. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46021	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Neven Ljubic. In fact, it is often mentioned in the media that from the construction of a hospital in Rijeka and Pula there will be nothing. I wonder if it's true, or as an MP from VIII. I am interested in the start of the construction of the hospital in Pula and Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46022	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46023	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank Mr. Representative for this question. I think it's very nice to have this moment in front of you, but also to the public clearly give a message. Mr. Prime Minister has therefore made a public promise, and we all know what he promises to do. Right now, the idea project for a pulse hospital is almost over. It's in our opinion. The value of this idea project and project documentation is 13 million and 500 thousand kuna. Based on the Framework Agreement that we actually signed, so in this year, the government has committed itself to making so project complete documentation by the end of this year, i.e. to start building in the following year. The project is of course not questionable, the money will be secured and I think it's actually a quality project. As far as the Rijeka project is concerned, I want to make it clear here that the Rijeka project has already begun. Namely, all those who pass by a new locality will see something being built. There's no building, I don't know what, there's a hospital being built. It's built in stages because no big complex can start without the first stone, the first step. A dialysis system is being built that will actually be the initial part of the future complex, so a clinical, new clinical hospital center in Rijeka. So for the following year and in that position, 54 million kuna was provided for the continuation of the project documentation, which will therefore be produced in full, because we already have an idea project to complete practically the first stage, meaning the construction of dialysis itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46024	Thank you. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46025	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I believe that the realization of these two projects will really raise the quality of health both in Pula and in Rijeka, i.e. in these two counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46026	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46027	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the government. Here are a few MPs who asked questions about pensions, Mr. Pupovac, Pancic, Mr. Hrelja and I will refer to that matter. In the first half of 2005, about 23 thousand workers with average pensions were retired 1.244.00 kuna. That means 26% of the average salary, which is the result of the demeaning 99th Retirement Insurance Act. From 99th to today, it means that up to 2005, 280 thousand workers were retired and had an average pension of 1.466.00 kuna compared to the old pensioners whose average pension means 1.928.00 kuna or about 700,00 kuna more than those of the new pensioners. This situation in my court comes out of control, and in this part of that pension legislation it is urgent to amend the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in a section in which a distinction appears between the defenders who were retired after 1.1.2005 and those who were retired before that. While defenders who are retired after 1.1.2005 are entitled to 45% of the average salary, it is about 1.900,00 to 22.00 kuna, those who were retired before 1.1.2005 are treated unfortunately as second-row defenders. The IDS will certainly launch a legislative initiative in that part, but we would like to see these illogicalities between the defenders retired before 1.1.2005 and those after that date, as well as the new ones, as well as the old pensioners, in the future do not seem to be dissistant, and I am asking so much of this question to the e-orbi prime minister, Vice-Presidents of the Government to Mr Polancec, Mrs Kosor, which is intended to do in this regard to equating Croatian citizens, and when pensions are in the wake of not only their rights or obligations, pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46028	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46029	Mr. Representative, this is a question that is not only asked by you who mentioned the MPs this morning, this is a question that the Croatian Government is seriously dealing with and this majority in the Croatian Parliament that supports the Government, and this is also a Croatian party of pensioners with other partners with HDZ. We fixed something at the beginning of the term of office that you as a former coalition partner of the past government.. What? A year. [[/Intruder: A year?]] As a year today, you've had enough time to do what you've now suggested. Since you haven't done it in the past term, which is that we've introduced those 100 kunas and 6% to the ground, it's a first. And secondly, we're paying back the debt to the pensioners and the debt will be paid back here, and I'm saying the urbius bags. Is there anything else we can do? It depends on the state's overall state and all as it goes forward, but it stays for all of us for the future. But what we can do is we'll do it, and that was what I was talking about a little while ago, and we sure as hell care about the better material position of our pensioners. Soon all this is going on just before the representative of the Hrelja bit and rhetorically asked the Deputy Prime Minister, but surely he is going and that according to the law we will begin to pay back the debt next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46030	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46031	Unfortunately, I can't agree with the answer. I agree that every pension reform lies in employment and I hope, frankly, the corrections of these illogicalities. I welcome the return of the debt clearly, it is a note of the Bene Constitutional Obligation higher than a decision of the Constitutional Court. How are we gonna get him back? By selling the property these pensioners created, and among other things by giving up that Swiss formula, we'll be collecting 15 billion kuna in 10 years, and we'll pay them back 7 billion kuna. The defense counsel is also an illogical situation. I know it is a huge burden for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is about billions of kunas. I'm sure four, five billion. It's not a game absolutely, it's a huge burden. But I think there's something more to be done in that part than synchronising, so that means 100,00 kuna plus 6% and just repaying the debt. It is a constitutional obligation, we cannot escape from it as we now say these disabled and family pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina are equating with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's simple for all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46032	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46033	Thank you, Mr. President. I intended to ask the prime minister another question, however, prompted by his response to Mr. Drmic, who is rather strange to me because Mr. Prime Minister probably doesn't remember that he is still 15 June 2004. The Croatian People's Party has proposed a conclusion on a fairer distribution of the income tax money where we have proposed that the Croatian Government amend existing regulations that regulate the way the tax is distributed in a way that is obtained, and thus...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46034	Comrade Kapraljevic, excuse me, one moment. You asked a written parliamentary question to the Prime Minister. The question is, do the laws in Croatia apply equally to everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46035	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46036	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46037	Exactly and that's how I'm gonna... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46038	And it'll come to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46039	I'll get to that. The Croatian People's Party, therefore, proposed a Law on a fairer distribution of profits where on 15 June 2004, we asked for that profit to be deployed differently. The government of the Republic of Croatia was then on September 2nd, so when we proposed it, it proposed to the Parliament not to accept the proposal for conclusions on a fairer distribution of funds obtained by profit tax. By doing so, I return to what I said, whether all the laws apply to all of Croatia, namely all the regions and all the local self-government is damaged only this year for a billion and 900 million kuna. Because if the Croatian government had passed such a law, that money would not have been in Zagreb alone, and then you and Mr Bandic could not have talked about big projects in Zagreb. That money would've gone to local self-government. At that time, a complete HDZ voted against the government's proposal, and also those newly-roasted regionals sitting next to me, one of them today asked the question, they voted against it. I ask you, that's when you said that such a system of distribution is complicated and that it's difficult to implement. I'm asking you, if you don't know how to make such a distribution, do you accept that HNS helps you make that law?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46040	Okay. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46041	Mr. Representative, if the HNS had something to do, he would have done it in four years while you were in power, not as IDS in 1 year. That's my answer to this question if we don't know something to ask you. If you knew that you would have done it, but you didn't know it, you weren't capable, you weren't able to do it. And that's why you got the voter's decision to move into the opposition benches. Therefore, if we were to listen to you, we would be moved by the same fate, but we will not listen to you because we have different intentions. We intend to do what is good for Croatia, and what is good for Croatia is part of the answer I gave Drmić, and now I will give it to you. We want to find a proposal like this, and we expect the young mayor to give us, if there are studies of similar cases in Europe, to see how it's done in other countries. Of course, we are in favour of a fairer distribution of income tax and of course we take care of it because that is what we have raised. And you said something, too, that we could look at together, if you'd just say that you didn't say it. You said if the government had passed that law, it would be different today. The government does not pass laws, the laws are passed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46042	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46043	I'm happy with the answer. That's what I expected. Normally, incompetence for something that isn't brought now shifts to others. I didn't call these or these, I know there was a road for our mandate. I'm sure there's a road left, and as far as this new law is concerned, we'll guarantee it before the procedure, and I'll immediately correct what I said the government passed. You should have made a proposal to the Parliament, and the Parliament would have passed the law. And we will certainly give in the procedure a law that will regulate distribution more fairly, and also income in the territory of Croatia, and we will worry that the profit is evenly distributed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46044	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46045	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to refer the question to the Prime Minister and Mr. Eve Sanader. In fact, they suggest that seniors of the Democratic Centre who have seen one problem of the pensioners, and the topic is the famous 30 kuna participation when going to the doctor to examine and receive recipes. According to what the pensioners have seen, one part of the pensioners are not able to do because of small pensions, and these are significant numbers, able to pay for that participation. So they want to know, understand, too, that the government is looking for a quality and rational solution, but they want to know if there are funds in the budget that could be made available to a part of the pensioners who have really small pensions, so that they can be freed from the payment of that participation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46046	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46047	Mr. Representative, I will repeat what I said and we are absolutely up to improving the material status of our pensioners. But as you said yourself, we can cover ourselves with as much cover as it is long, we can't pull it. The state budget is in such a state that we have had to for the past two years by inheriting the budget deficit of 6.3 to come in these 2 years on here today we can say 4.2. And next year we want to go below 4%, we're going to be discussing the budget, and we're going to say that the projection is 3.5 and maybe in 2007. 3% of what would be to meet the master criteria. We need to arrange Croatia and public finances, and in this sense with full understanding and what the DC seniors have said and what we are all doing, what we are working on together with HSU and with you in the coalition government. I can only say that we're going to try, but first of all we have to take care of state finances because without the arrangements, that's an assumption for all future ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46048	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46049	Well, Mr. President, I really understand as a member of Parliament who supports the government's efforts towards rationalisation and the overall health system and the social system. However, when it is taken that somewhere around 10 to 15% of the income that that part of the pensioner has, or sets out monthly for recipes and reviews, it is quite a large, large number. So, I think it would be this reasonable and in line with what you just said, to look for a solution to find 10 to 15 million kuna to help this endangered social category of pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46050	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46051	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Let me ask Mr. Polancec, vice president of the Croatian government. Mr Polancec, you and this Croatian government continue to privatise companies in a Croatian way, non-transparently, without a plan to achieve the law of established privatisation goals. First, you privatize "Sun-Sun-Hvar" under the so-called "public-private" principle of partnership without a legal basis for it. Secondly, "Liburnia Riviera" hotels are privatized through a deal with opponents in a process that is still of course uncertain. Thirdly, you are now privatizing the hotels "Koločep" by giving the hotel so-called, non-profit association "Island of Knowledge" established precisely for this case and three times cheaper than the price offered in the competition. The question is until when is the Government, the Croatian Government and you, Mr. Vice President, intend to privatise Croatian companies in such an incomprehensible way without offering plans and goals and effects of privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46052	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Let me begin immediately and say that it is not true that we are doing privatisation in a non-transparent way and let me also say that recently in this House we have had an exhausting debate about the effects of conversion and privatisation in Croatia, that we have all concluded together that we are aware that this process and the legal framework that determines it has its shortcomings and therefore allow me to introduce you to a few facts. We have recently established a working group that has been seasoned by, both employees of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and members of the Ministry of Economy, as well as the State Audit Office, the State Attorney's Office, representatives of the union, and independent experts, above all from the Faculty of Law and Economic Affairs. We are all working intensively to define what the shortcomings of the existing Privatisation Act are, after which we will propose amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act in which we will install among others certain privatisation models that may be present in Croatia in one way or another, but I agree that they are not adequately defined by the law. These are primarily the management "by out", management "and employment by out", so-called. working stock or ESOP, but we will also define a proposal for a Public-private Partnership Act. Also from the next session of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, all the following will be open to the public, there will be media and I call on them once again and this way to join us at these sessions, because I am very much in favour of transparency and as far as possible better and more objective information for the Croatian public about the privatisation process. When we talk about some specific cases, and you mentioned the final case of one of the decisions of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which is the sale of the company Kolocep, then let me deny you, so it's not about selling, so it's about giving. It's definitely about selling, it's about selling to a non-profit association, the respected Mr. MP, but a non-profit institution that is determined and whose rights and responsibilities are defined by another law. You can check it out and get information exactly what it means and we didn't give it, but we sold it. We have sold for an amount of 22 million kuna, but absolutely respecting the fact that the institution has committed to additional investment, i.e. the capitalisation of a company of 201, 202 million kuna, which is twice as much as the first next bidder and allow me also to note that the investment was intended by the Privredna banka Zagreb, so at the sum of 65% of the total, which in the context of how much the Croatian Privatisation Fund will earn and in the context of how much funds are available for the recapitalisation of the company this offer puts absolutely on position number 1 by these two criteria. Therefore, once again privatisation goes on, changes and additions of laws will follow, meetings of the Management Board will be public, we call on the media and this way to attend these sessions. We have included all the institutions that should be involved in the creation of a new proposal for the Privatisation Act, and I really think we are doing this very transparently. Of course, let me also point out that we are in the process of defining and the plan, the operational privatisation plan for 2006 and 2007 which will also be announced very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46054	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government... The question is confirmed by your response and the programme of measures to make privatisation transparent. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Secondly, no reasonable citizen will believe or believe that for one third of the price, Kolocep is sold in the interest of achieving the goals that are laid down by law, which means training the Croatian economy and Croatian societies in competitiveness for the European Union, for new employment, and at least believes that the association or institution as you say is now able to return 220 million that will invest in their property and that it was an interest of the social that you respected. Nobody's gonna believe that. Give the written answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46056	Thank you. So, the written answer. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46057	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Dear Madam Minister, the age structure of the population of the Republic of Croatia shows that the share of the older population is significant and that the age group is increasing. It's a tendency in all developed societies, and it's a fact that we have to respect. These people have made their contribution to our society and deserve to live through their golden years with dignity. For various reasons, many have been left alone, perhaps sick, and unable to care for themselves, their health, and their household. Some of them just need a few nice words, a little socializing and attention, and others need medical and social care, including material help. Regardless of the increased accommodation opportunities in the homes, it is not possible for all elderly people to take care of their homes, some do not want to, and some cannot pay. The Republic of Croatia, in the organisation of its executive power, has in this term the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and therefore my question is addressed to you, Madam Minister, which is how does the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity take care of third-age citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46058	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, from what you yourself stated in your question, I would like to conclude first of all that Croatia has for the first time the Ministry of Family, Ministry of Intergenerational Solidarity, that we have actually started in this part of intergenerational solidarity from zero in the last year, from budgeting to project creation. What I am very pleased to point out is that we have achieved the project of intergenerational solidarity so far, so far here at the end, that is, the second year of office in 12 counties. These projects consist of two parts. One is living room for older people, and the other are projects to help in the house. These projects are heading right for those older, powerless, often left behind by you. In particular, this refers to nursing households in the country, and I must say that these projects, which were aimed at these households, have achieved excellent results. I can mention the counties in which we have daily stay projects, these are Ličko-senjska, Sibenik-Kninska, Karlovska, Sisak-Moslavina, Osijek-Baranja, Split-Dalmatia, Požesko-Slavonska and Međimurska County. So nine programs of living rooms for older people. What does that mean? It means that they are living residents who are mostly going and in collaboration with local administration in which old people can find any kind of care and help throughout the day. Help projects in the house means where we go literally directly to the house of people living alone, who are often sick, abandoned by all these programs are being implemented in Vukovar-Srijem, Virovitica-Podravska, Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac, Zadar and Primorje-Gorski County. It's a total of 22 programs. Some of us just signed, so they're ahead of final realization. A few thousand older people are covered by these programs. What I would also particularly like to point out is that 365 people have been hired to implement these programmes so far. It's mostly women, mostly women who are hard to hire, so over the age of 40. They're mostly at the jobs of the so-called. The geronto housewife I say goes home, doing all the necessary work from cooking, cleaning and all the other jobs. We have great examples in Lika-Senj County, for example. Last winter, therefore, rural households that were literally cut off from the world, buried in the snow for the first time in winter came home, helped, brought food, washed laundry, and these are excellent examples. We also have a good example in Sibenik for the area of the island belonging to Sibenik, four islands. We have a boat that takes away food or that allows for constant contact with these people and for those who are the most threatened accommodation in our living room during critical days or months during winter. And I also mention that we are developing a volunteering programme involving volunteers, primarily through the Croatian Retired Mother and the Retired Union of Retired People with whom we have excellent cooperation. All in all, here are new programs not known enough to the general public but programs that achieve good results, of course especially when it comes to those who need it most and all together enters this mosaic that this government agrees about caring for pensioners and all other people of older age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46060	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46061	Thank you for your response. It is good that intergenerational solidarity programmes cover a large number of older people in the entire Republic of Croatia. I also believe that for older people, a good solution is precisely a volunteer programme in one quality cooperation with local and regional administration units and examples of the City of Beli Manastir and the City of Zapresic in which it is successfully practiced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46062	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46063	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister! I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Mr. Peter Cobankovic and, of course, it is related to the bird flu. First of all, I would like to commend that in this action the damaged households received their damage within four to five days regardless of what was happening to us. But we listened to various theories about the reasons for the donation and from those who understood each other and also from a number of other sources and from other opinions. I know you've also met Mr. Minister's Assembly Committee on Agriculture and Forestry about what's been going on these last few days. I would ask, and I believe the public is also interested in hearing from the most responsible person who is the expert reason for killing poultry and whether there was perhaps another cheaper or better way to act in a situation where we all believed that the situation was far from Croatia. Whether all domestic feathers had to be destroyed within three kilometers and I wonder if it was the Republic of Croatia and how much it cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46064	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46065	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, allow me to say a few words in the shortest lines about this issue and I've been talking about it a lot these weeks. First of all, I have to point out that influenza is a bird-infectious viral disease of wild birds and domestic poultry. I must also point out that bird influenza falls into particularly dangerous infectious diseases. Accordingly, the ways to address and treat this disease are prescribed by the Veterinary Act and by the relevant rules, as well as the harmonised regulation of the European Union and other international institutions. In line with this, since it is an extremely dangerous disease, I must stress the disease above all, Croatia was obliged to act solely in accordance with the prescribed law and rules, as prescribed by law and regulations. The Veterinary Act has passed this High House and normally that those of us in the executive power must exclusively be guided in their work by a way that we implement the laws. And in this case, we have also said in one way, a highly professional way to implement the Law on Veterinary and Provisions of the Consistent Regulation, and unfortunately in order to stop further expansion or even better to say, in order to stop the possibility of moving the virus from wild birds to domestic feathers, we had to take those actions that we took. None of us are glad that we had to take it, but I think that at all, whether or not we should have taken those actions, which is killing a certain number of domestic poultry, I think simply from what I said, there's no debate. It is prescribed by law and we are obliged to enforce the law. I have to stress a few more important things, and that is, above all, that Croatia is the first country that has managed to isolate the influenza virus of birds or H5, and ultimately this most pathogenic N1 on wild birds has shown itself before it is isolated on domestic poultry. And we think that's one big breakthrough in the overall problem of bird flu for a reason because so far no country has isolated. At first, he was always isolated on a domestic poultry which I believe is exactly why these countries where the virus appeared had major economic damage. Croatia has isolated the way in which it organises, monitors and isolates the virus and these actions it has implemented to prevent it from moving on to domestic feathers and to ultimately have significantly greater damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46066	Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46067	Satisfied with the answer. But I'd still just like to ask the minister. I asked if it was too expensive for the state. And I say once again, I commend such a quick reaction and I hope that the ministry will continue to be present in this area and continue to take care of those people who have suffered from this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46068	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46069	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to Mr. Prime Minister, but I will be pleased if Mr. Polancec answers the question. My question concerns the contracted and then the cancellation of the concession tender for a multi-purpose helicopter service. In fact, as far as I know, the government made a decision at a session on 15 October 2004 on the establishment of a Committee for the Implementation of Competitions for the so-called VHS or a multi-purpose helicopter service to hold an international competition in June of this year, I think it was published in the financial times and some of our newspapers reported by five companies. Three of them found out from the media we made a narrow choice. That only a week after that, without too much justification, the contest would be annulled. The only explanation was the collection of a clinical debt from the Russian Federation in the form of helicopters listed on the Croatian Government's website to be obtained for the purpose of ceasefire and not for emergency medical assistance. In early September, all such Russian helicopters, according to publicly available information, did not meet either European or Croatian legal conditions for so-called ". Hemps or helicopter emergency medical services. Grounded in Russia on suspicion of factory malfunctions. I am interested in what were the motives for this government's unserious conduct, who would be responsible for the international defamation of the Republic of Croatia and for the cancellation of the international public tender, because of people who were killed on the roads for not introducing such service, more because as far as we know in Croatia there are helicopters equipped for hemps standing in hangars. We had ended up, during the summer, dozens of victims who would have been saved if the government had established such a service. So, why was it called, almost to the end, and then the international competition for VHS canceled? Why was it done by the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time, which role was played by Mr Ostovic, who was later removed? Why the competition was not disbursed by the Ministry of Health and Social Care or by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. I believe that today is the time of November to take a stand and open a contract for the purchase of helicopters that will meet the standards of hemps, otherwise we will meet before the new tourist season and we will again.../collars please conclude!... ... Thank you very much. Here, that's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46070	That's the question, thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46071	First of all, Madam Representatives, I will say with full responsibility that all requests for the transport of patients during this summer have been made. So, I would ask you to tell me one case where the request was without an emergency intervention from the three helicopter centers that we have at the moment. In Zagreb, Split and Pula. We want to open the fourth in Osijek soon, and that's where we're waiting, so these new helicopters. But today it works from these three centers, it works in Croatia. Why was there a cancellation of the competition? It came, I will say very openly, after President Mesic informed me of his talks with Russian President Putin where they agreed not to go Croatia, therefore, to... long, yes no, to give up those planes,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a multi-purpose guy who's been previously agreed and we're going on helicopters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I asked the Secretary of Defense if these helicopters were also multi-purpose, so, are they, are they, are they compatible with NATO standards? And two. I also asked the Minister of Health if we could build them in for this service. The answer was yes, so together with the President of the Republic we decided to give up these multi-purpose planes... And that we're going on helicopters because they're compatible with NATO standards and that I can conduct this rescue service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as I said, so now we have a mountain rescue service, we have helicopters and police and military, and they're all in the function of what we're talking about. So that service works, we're just going to step it up and perfect it even more after we get these helicopters that will come from the Russian Federation. They're NATO compatible. So this isn't about some type of written-off scum that you didn't say that, but you got such an impression that they don't fly anymore, they don't drive, they're somewhere, they're not true. So it's remarkable that we were checking their compatibility and value. Therefore, we are working in the system over the next year as a new model for the distribution of emergency medical care throughout Croatia is also known. Therefore, we aim to achieve what we have in Zagreb. In Zagreb, we have that in 15 minutes the ambulance can come almost anywhere. This is what we want to achieve, and that is what we aim to do throughout Croatia. And that is why the Ministry of Health has the task of making a new plan, emergency medical services for all of Croatia. As part of this, it is extremely important for this service, the helicopter rescue service, therefore, when we round it up, in cooperation with the Mountain Rescue Service, the rescue service that we will establish through the medical system, this new medical system, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, and everything will be united under 112, which has already begun to function. I think we're on our way and we're going to establish this new model by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46072	Thank you. Dear Ensign Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46073	I thank you, Mr. President, and thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for this answer. Of course, I'd like to ask Mr. Polancec or someone to draw up such a written answer to this. I'm interested in whether these helicopters will meet the need for hems, means not NATO standards, but standards for performing medical services. And two. Who's gonna answer if they find out that when these helicopters are delivered, they're not gonna be able to fly the hemps for legal reasons. I'd like to pray exactly for the name and last name of the responsible person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46074	Thank you. So, the government's written response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46075	Yes, written, written and written. Written and written.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46076	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46077	Thank you, Mr. President, for asking the Minister of Health. Mr. Minister, in the month of July of this year, in the shadow of the theatre announced partial debt repayment to pensioners, and the occupation of both the media and the Croatian public by calculating how much who and when will receive the kuna. When TV cameras were shut down by the government's will and obedience to the parliamentary majority, amendments to the health insurance laws, which introduce administrative fees, and abolish travel fees and... Costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate, we pointed out the injustice of the law, which prevents the poorest and most needed part of Croatian citizens from consummating constitutional rights to health care. With effect from 1 October 2005, it also exposes all its inhumanities. The law makes citizens bitter and dissatisfied doctors and other medical staff. For 300 million planned savings to a poor citizen, the right to treatment has been denied, and doctors are forced to issue an oath that they have committed to. How unacceptable is the law to the poor people and human medical staff to show these 2,000 signatures, which were collected in just two hours by the women of the Croatian Peasant Party and Croatia... Ship-Posavina County, 1000 signatures collected by the Croatian Party Council Club, SDP, HNS, the town of Senj, and I am now handing you these signatures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you, Mr. Minister, what are you going to do to enable the poor to consume the right to health care, the right to treatment, and trust some even the right to live? I'm handing you these petitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46078	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46079	I thank the esteemed, so the MPs, I don't know if they're actually in there and the MPs of the HSS, or if they're all actually voters, we're going to look at it a little bit and see. What's really important for me to say here and what I want to say to the public, respected parliamentary MPs, there are two levels of solidarity that we want to promote and we are absolutely behind them. One is the solidarity of everyone for those who are sick. However, there is another set of solidarity, which is solidarity for the sickest. Right now, you're saying why we abolished the travel expenses. So in a situation where I have to choose whether to give the medicine to a sick child, or give the medicine to someone with a severe malignancies, I choose to give the medicine. And we're going to find the best way to actually protect that part of the population. So let's give him the cure. Because the health kuna is intended for health care, intended for the treatment of sick people. It is therefore a system which is generally recognised, generally known and which Croatia is actually on track for the best solutions and accepted. I also want to say that the social policy under way has absolutely protected all social categories such as the Prime Minister clearly and said we can cover ourselves with a blanket as long as it is. And, of course, by covering up for those social categories. Of course, politicizing something in this segment is certainly not good, but what we're going to do is show our citizens very quickly what they got for these 30 kunas because here are the new drugs coming in, there's an extension of indications for a whole series of diseases. For a whole series of conditions, and thus we will show the citizens that we follow the best, most modern methods and ways of treatment for 30 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46080	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46081	Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with the answer, and that's why I'm asking for a written response preferably from a phonogram just like you said that I can deliver your written answer to anyone who's signed there. And with regard to the signature of Mr. Minister, it's not members of the HSS or the most likely voters of the HSS. There are citizens, there are citizens of all possible qualifications, all possible structures and doctors and medical staff. And by your imputation, Mr. Minister, that these are HSS voters and members of the HSS, you're talking about sharing citizens with those who don't have the right just because they're supporters of some other party. And it's a right to health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46082	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to Mr. Branko Bačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Among the citizens of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, and especially since this summer when the reconstruction and reconstruction of the existing state road Sisak-Zagreb has started, one question has been really and necessarily raised, which is still being used, and I would say for political purposes especially in the current government in the city and county. Is it possible to give up the construction of the Sisak-Zagreb highway? Mr. State Secretary citizens of Sisak ask you when the work on the Sisak-Zagreb highway will begin and does the highway change the entrance to Zagreb? It's said to affect construction deadlines. And also whether the non-performing plan of Velika Gorica will slow down and build this first section which is really important to us. Great Gorica-Domovinski bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46084	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, thank you for your question because there was indeed doubt in part of the Croatian public whether and when will the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway begin? I want to tell you that the state programme of construction, maintenance of public roads, which was adopted by the Croatian Government during the period from 2005 to 2008, was designed to build the Zagreb-Sisak highway. The total length of the highway is 48km and the planned investment height is over a billion kuna. The original plan of the Croatian highway shares was divided into 3 sub-divisions and the first section of Zagreb. So from Yakushec to Velika Gorica. The second was from Velika Gorica to Lekenik. And the third from Lekenik to Moscenica. As you yourself stated in your question, there was a certain doubt about the quality of the highway entrance to the city of Zagreb. And therefore our Ministry together with Croatian highways is in the process of agreeing with the city of Zagreb, the town of Velika Gorica and Zagreb County about redefining the route of the entrance of the highway to Zagreb. For this reason, this first section I mentioned from Jakushec to Velika Gorica was necessarily divided into two, two stages. So the first phase from Jakushec to Buzin and the second from Buzin to Velika Gorica is precisely because it can be solved... documentation on the first part from Jakushec to Buzin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On that second part, so from Buzin to Velika Gorica Croatian highways, they discuss the competition and it will be announced these days and will begin the works on the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway after the completion of the competition. No later than January 2007 at the latest. So to shorten the Zagreb-Sisak highway with its construction in early 2006, and it is true that we are forced to change, change part of the route from Jakushec to Buzin, and that in this sense it will be necessary to coordinate the spatial plans of units of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46086	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46087	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I believe that with this difficulty that you will remove the highway will reach Sisak because already once in the term of last government has given up its construction and that this answer will remove all doubts in the city of Sisak and in the county and even politicizing about this road construction. So I hope that the current mayor Mr. Vidovic and the current mayor, and our distinguished fellow MPs, will no longer have to take pictures on the bridge in Sisak with shovels to promise the citizens of Sisak this highway and the one they removed from the highway construction program while they were members of the government. I sincerely hope she gets to Sisko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46088	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46089	Mr. President-in-Office, I have a question for the Prime Minister. I'd like to say that from what we've already heard today through questions, the situation in our health care is getting worse. The citizen is increasingly paying for an increasingly small and unquality health care service. An administrative fee has been introduced up to 30 kuna a month. They've been abolished, it's a refund of transport costs below 100 kilometers, and that's what affects our people with disabilities the most. In just a few days, the death of four newborns was reported because hospitals do not have sufficient equipment. The girl died because she was denied the help of an ambulance. Some hospitals have used restrictions and will be providing limited services by the end of the year. On my question a month ago about the issues of parents leading their children to therapy, and I can't make it back, you said you were thinking about solving this problem. While you were thinking tens, a dozen parents stopped taking their children to therapy. I'd like to ask you what you're up to. What kind of health reform are we in, and what other financial obligations as users of health services do we expect through health reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46090	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46091	Dear Madam MPs, we all know how difficult the health situation is. I can say at this point that she's a lot easier than she was when we took responsibility for the country two years ago and that we're going to continue on this path that we're going to take. We are preparing a health reform in which we will answer all the questions that you asked during the morning, which you did not know how to answer during the past period because you could not get caught or wanted to catch up with the difficult problems that are, which are objective in health care. Therefore, no one can say that this government is not working, that it is not doing everything in its power to resolve these issues. But they're not easy. There are no easy solutions and we will definitely go out to the Croatian public in a few weeks with a comprehensive health reform. He's headed for a public debate, so we'll see how we'll all figure it out together.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46092	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46093	Our citizens don't care what they did before, present or future government. They are interested in working in the interests of them, therefore, to work in the interest of our citizens. So, I wanted to ask you what you're up to, because that's what you promised me. I was pleased with your answer last time. But while you were thinking you bought expensive cars, and the parents of these children had to stop therapy for their children. They asked me to give you both the petition and the letter they sent you. This morning, I also got a response from the Minister of Health about this problem. He said the new Health Insurance Act will try to solve this problem as well. That's good. But from 1.10 this year until the law is passed, it's quite a distance of time, and I'd really be interested in whether it's possible to solve the problem for the most disabled, our citizens, who because these costs are so huge they can't go to therapy anymore. I'd be interested in getting such a concrete answer, not what she's been doing, this one or what the future government is going to do and what a future reform it is. Right now people have a problem and the problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46094	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46095	I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Last October, we discussed the government's annual report on the readiness of the defence system and the overall state of defence forces of the Republic of Croatia. It was a report for 2003. The situation was then assessed by the government itself unsatisfactory. It is the government's obligation to deliver these reports every year. Unfortunately, we haven't won for 2004 yet. From the debate to this day, nothing has been systematically done in this area, nor has there been legislative activity, nor has a defence plan been adopted, nor has a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. ... Then it's morale time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46096	All right, come on. Don't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46097	So we're going from the beginning. We're referring the question to the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, last October we discussed the government's annual report on the readiness of the defence system and the overall state of the Armed Forces. It's about the 2003 report. It is the government's obligation to submit this report every year. The situation was then viewed by the government itself as unsatisfactory. Nothing has been systematically done in this area since the debate, nor has there been legislative action, as stated in the report, nor has a defence plan been adopted, nor has a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is an obligation. So, in this case, there's neither content nor form. On this point, I had an opportunity to discuss the area of defence and national security on 18 last month at their request with the High Representative of the United States of America, and we achieved a high level of agreement on what should be done. We have concluded that unfortunately we are lagging behind Romania and Bulgaria, just laugh, it is a sad fact, we are lagging behind. So, is the government hiding something again? Why do we sell fog with so-called. A strategic defence review? A document you have neither in the Constitution nor in the Law of Defense. You have a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. So does the government intend to work by law and not just form but also make content? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46098	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46099	Mr. Representative, first of all, I apologize that I really didn't hear the whole question at the beginning of your first attempt because the representative lady brought me one material and she said that we were thinking about buying new cars. We didn't buy new cars, but we replaced the old ones by expensive lying, old cars that we inherited, and it's very interesting for the citizens that we inherited expensive cars from the former government and replaced them for more favourable lying. No new cars bought. That's what Croatia knows about. And now for the defense. That document you're talking about is currently in the President's office because it's our responsibility, because the president is also commander-in-chief and as soon as he gives his opinion, we refer him to the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46100	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46101	Mr. President, you didn't understand me. So you keep saying that we inherited it from the former government. So now we shall inherit from you and from them this poor state of defense. You need to bring in a defense plan. A long-term development plan of the Armed Forces or the modernisation of the purchase of two old tank T55s that have not been produced for 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46102	Inheritance rights will be settled in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46103	Well, of course, where different.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46104	The election will resolve the inheritance right and heirs if there is any desert debate. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, at a press conference held in Umag on 3 October 2005, information was provided that at a meeting of representatives of fishermen with the prime minister of the Croatian government and you agreed that fishermen were satisfied with the proposal, which is that they will meet their requirements for the introduction of incentives, i.e. compensation for all fish caught at 14% of the invoices. This was also published in "The Voice of Istria", which was repeated by the minister at the Milna fish meetings near Dubrovnik on 15.10. Since there is a great mistrust of Croatian fishermen because of the situation in which our fishing and our fishermen are located, and there are also such problems in the blue diesel for which they are unjustly accused in some way by both fishermen and peasants that out of nearly 180 thousand tonnes of INA shows that they are used for blue diesel, to be spent, and which is abnormally large. Because, according to estimates, all half of them actually refer to what the fishermen and peasants spend and, of course, they all suffer expensively, because of these facts, I ask you, that publicly brought here, is the public promise to Croatian fishermen to introduce incentives, that is, compensation for all fish caught at 14% of the amount of the bill issued for sold fish exactly and in what way and when will the need to implement it be respected as soon as possible, and whether the introduction of a blue diesel card will be 50% of the retail price of euro diesel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46106	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, you have certain information and I must say that, thank God, a good part of that information you have is correct. We had meetings with fishermen, and we agreed on what to do to make our fishing functionality much better and bigger. We are also aware of all the problems that fishing encounters from the absence of the further need for infrastructures from fishing ports, landing sites, reception sites, warehouses, refrigeration and wholesalers, but I also need to know that there are already certain start-up projects in solving certain locations of these problems and that this ministry and this government are taking care of the problem of fishing in one, I would say appropriate, and the way it is necessary. And therefore, with the introduction of the fishing fleet renewal programme, we are very important and we are holding to the construction of this necessary infrastructure that I was just talking about, and in this context until that part is done and we know that there are certain additional costs to which the fishermen are exposed we have discussed how and what to do to help fishermen on the one hand, and on the other hand that the quantity of white fish is significantly increasing. That amount of white fish that is now going through legal institutions and through a way that is also available for recording and managing, unfortunately here we all agree that it is somewhere below one-third of the total. For these reasons, as in some other productions, I am not going to show incentives but certain subsidies to introduce them into the system on the one hand, and on the other hand to help these branches of production, so we are thinking about finding a way to solve the issue of fish subsidies in the way we said, introducing market compensations on invoices. So that's accurate information. As for the blue diesel, never at any time, neither the ministry nor anyone from the government said that farmers and fishermen are the ones who manipulate and abuse blue diesel. That's what someone else does. But the indisputable fact is that the consumption of blue diesel from year to year is increasing and that it is to the direct harm of those caused by the blue diesel being introduced. For these reasons, we can't normally sit with our hands cut, but we're going into one action, activity, and I think this week it's going to be the proposal in the government, it's the introduction of a card-based way of solving the subsidized fuel. In this way, first of all, the rights of each user will be determined, on these rights they will receive on the card a quantity and will benefit, will be able to benefit from what is his right. In order to introduce this, we normally need to bring this into line with the existing and legal framework and sublaws and regulations, and we are convinced that by the end of this year we will make the necessary changes and that from 1.1.2006 we will start with a different way to distribute the subsidized fuel. In this way I am convinced that we will reduce its consumption on the one hand, on the other hand we will reduce the costs of Ini because there will be no more need for special distribution, for coloring and so on. which automatically creates the assumption that this subsidisation of fuel can go for slightly lower prices, and that is all wisdom and the essence of what this government wants to do in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46108	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46109	Thank you very much I will not show satisfaction and dissatisfaction, it is important to me that fishermen get those 14% incentives on their invoices because it is the only way, and so do their colleagues in Italy. And as for blue fuel, they all have in the Mediterranean, which means otherwise it is estimated that only 25 million kunas are required at the annual level for fishing incentives in this way 14%, which is only 1% of the total resources provided for in the incentives, and I believe that this way, if from the new year, incentives are introduced at 14%, if they are applied to the market for this blue fuel, because it unwarrantedly burdens just fishermen and peasants, and someone else is actually manipulating it, I believe that we can then have a price of blue fuel of 50% of the price of the euro elevator, which would be tolerable for continued activities and fishermen and farmers. I therefore believe that what you said and what you said will come true, and I ask you to read in writing about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46110	Thank you. And a written answer. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46111	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the question to the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Professor Ljubic. Given the information and inscriptions that appeared in the section of the press and caused different comments, especially among those of the sick, third-aged people whose medicines are most needed, please answer this question. Is it true that medicines in the Republic of Croatia are much more expensive than medicines in the countries of the European Union. And I especially ask you to explain to us how prices of medicines are formed and whether prices are taken into account in neighbouring countries, how much they are and whether this corrective moment is conducted in the way prices are calculated, especially on medicines, for medicines on the positive list of HZZOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46112	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46113	Thank you very much. So this is actually a question that's really going to require a little bit of an introduction. Namely, when the drug actually comes or competes on the market, it must pass a proper assessment. That grade is given by a single body called the agency. The Agency registers this medicine, so it shows whether it is good, is not good, has its area of action, has no, is it harmful, is it not harmful, etc. Once this medicine has been approved to be used in the Republic of Croatia at all, then the question remains whether it will be included in the payment list, means on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and whether certain insurance companies will be able to obtain it. What's that all about? This depends primarily on whether this medicine has the advantage of existing medicines on the list and, of course, depending on whether it has the advantage it will immediately enter, if there is no advantage of whether its price may be lower. So what we regulate is strictly and strictly a list of medicines within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. This list of medicines is actually formed on the basis of the best experiences not only from the European Union but also... so... so one body of the United States where we are in direct contact and where we actually take the best that comes. Prices of these medicines are formed in such a way that there is a rule. This rule is one of the strictest in Europe to seek an average of three countries, and then further lowers the price by 15 and 25%, respectively. It is actually the best way to keep medicines under strict control and right now 60% of the medicines on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are practically the cheapest medicines in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46114	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Kajo, is loud. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46115	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am pleased with the answer, especially with the fact that according to the data we have, more than 3-4% of the total gross social product to waste on is used on medicines. I believe you'll still...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46116	Please film it outside the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46117	...provide the necessary and necessary medicines for all
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46118	Proceed outside the assembly, not the courtroom, but the assembly room.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46119	...in this country, which is actually a constitutional obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46120	Thank you, Your Honor. The minister's finished. And then we still have two, which is why the ministers left, but those who need to give answers are there. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46121	Thank you very much. My question is about the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Namely, the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education was passed a year ago. Its key role has been announced during the implementation of the basic and secondary education reform. I am interested, and I believe the public, when the centre begins to work, what are its primary activities in reform and when we can expect the first results.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46122	Thank you. State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46123	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, that on 22 October last year, an external evaluation was passed in this House, the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and then we legally opened the possibility of introducing an external evaluation into the Croatian school system for the first time, that is what we have not had so far and what the guarantee we see this through other countries that have introduced an external evaluation of the important rise in education. The second document, the second law, which was passed, or amended by law came into force on 1 July of this year, are amendments to the Law on secondary education where one article says that the results of national exams conducted by the National Centre for External Education will be used in the school evaluation process. So based on all these results that schools get, they themselves will take certain measures, or determine where they are weak and what they need to improve. I can tell you that so far, the dynamics have been like this. After the law was passed, all the necessary actions that should have been done so far were done after the law had entered into force. Therefore, a temporary director of the Centre was appointed to attend the enrolment, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in the Court Register, which adopted the provisional statute. And last week, the administrative council was appointed, so after all these shops. The Governing Council has held 2 sessions already and it is up to the adoption of a permanent statute to confirm this House of Commons. I hope so very soon. And after that, there is a call for tenders for the Director of the Centre and for the first 10 employees to work at the Centre. The law that you have passed in the Croatian Parliament is therefore envisaged in the assessment that 10 employees will be employed this year which will be realised by the end of this year and will be realised according to this plan. Furthermore, space is being arranged in Marulic Square 19, where the National Centre will be temporarily located until the construction of a new building in Ilica 246a, as we also said in the Croatian Parliament when we discussed in the regular procedure of this Act. The results we expect when the National Centre begins its work will be visible in May of next year when the first national exams will be held for all students of the first class of high school programmes. More precisely 3rd, 4th and 5th May when national exams from Croatian, mathematics and English will be held. This will, therefore, be the first results we will have and the first more extensive work that will be carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. In the coming years until the introduction of the state graduation, a round of subjects that will be covered by national exams will be expanded, in fact, external evaluation, which will further enter all of our educational and educational institutions. From kindergartens through primary schools and secondary schools and all those other education students in any other way in the perspective. At this point, I can't talk about the years when everything will be covered, but everything is going according to plan and results, I'm sure it will be good, and improving the education that is the ultimate goal must be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46124	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46125	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46126	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46127	Thank you very much. My question is for Mr. Minister Cobankovic. Today we've already had opportunities to hear about bird flu, those that have been beyond damage, and that they've been paid in record time and thank God that that's how it's been solved. Thank God the Croatian government responded at the right time and made it clear to everyone that the bird flu in Croatia is present. Today, however, my question is focused on those who are either on the road or are already suffering even greater damage than these extraordinary damages from the euthanasia of the poultry. And that's about the peradar industry. Since I come from the county and the area known for the peradarian industry and in which the poultry industry is safe until it is taken together between Međimurska and Varazdin County, 2/3 of the entire poultry industry in the country. I'm particularly interested in whether or not the state, if it has any intention at all, will it do for them? How can he help them? How can he help them? In what time and in what means? Is this about maybe some kind of intervention ransom, customs discharge, or is there some other way?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46128	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46129	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Normally, the situation is extremely important to us and important to the peradarity sector. Because I think it's one of the most well-restricted sectors in total agriculture where we have an extremely high level of production. Both technologically and productively, where our production results are at the level of results in the most developed countries of the European Union. And the very fact that we achieve such results normally makes us, in any case, very interested in the functioning of this sector. The sector is not only a matter of poultry production but also a question of the consumption of war cultures. And it's the fact that there's 200 thousand tons of corn in the laundry industry somewhere, plus other components for cattle. I think he's saying enough how important he is to complete agriculture. And accordingly, I would like to stress that yet the greatest aid ever made to this sector is the fact that the virus has managed to isolate itself on wild birds. And take all the activities we've taken to keep it from going to home. Then both for them and for all other damages would be far, far greater. But now we're where we are, we're aware that there's been a reduction in the consumption and consumption of meat of poultry of all forms. That there are certain surpluses in these meat industries and that there is something to be done. In that context, we have made three contacts so far, talking to representatives of the poultry industry. We're heading towards finding certain solutions. We don't think it's the right solution to put an extra, buy-in through an intervention buy-in, and put into the supply directory. For the simple reason it's about goods, raw materials that are not subject to long-preservation like chicken meat. And besides, it would still require the state's additional storage costs and all that. We stand at the view that the most optimal solution if part of these products could be implemented, the excess products. And in this context, we are looking for certain solutions to help the state remove these from the domestic market, transfer them to another market, thus helping the poultry. But I must point out once again that exactly the fact that it has succeeded in stopping the non-overcoming of the virus from wild birds to domestic birds, that this has resulted in the fact that the European Union has not prevented exports being of great importance, on the one hand. And on the other hand, that's exactly what restored the trust of our consumers. And from day to day, this situation is getting better. So there will be no drastic consequences as could be expected in those first days after the outbreak of the influenza of birds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46130	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46131	So I'm going to express my gratitude for this answer, with the hope that in the event of a major market disturbance, for various reasons, the government as well as in this current course of the whole bird flu story will find additional ways to help the peradar industry. Velim, this is also a question on behalf of 600 employees of the large producer, Međimurje County, that is "Pipo poultry" and their thousands and thousands of co-operatives who, at this point I say thanks to the support of the Croatian government, can count on them not to experience any more damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46132	Thank you. All 38 MPs and MPs have asked questions. "The current morning" is over. The government did not remain in debt to answer any parliamentary question. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the development of Croatian railways. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament continue with the session of the Croatian Parliament. It's on the agenda: 1. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for stopping the development of Croatian Railways – Proposers of 24 MPs in accordance with Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of 24 MPs, the SDP Representatives' Club, submitted an interpretation. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted its report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. I'm asking on behalf of the Proposer. Who wants to give an extra explanation? Dear Representative Ljubo Jurcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46134	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although the Government of the Republic of Croatia suggests that the Croatian Parliament rejects the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for stopping the development of the Croatian Railways, Interpol may be on track to achieve its goal. Interruptors propose to the Croatian Parliament that following the completion of the debate on the interpretation that lies ahead, they draw conclusions that will oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change its policy on railway development, i.e. to encourage the development of Croatian railways and encourage it to behave more responsibly. The first of the proposed conclusions is, I quote: "A change of members of the Croatian Railway Administration to create conditions for stabilising relations within the Croatian Railways, as well as the safety of employees in the Croatian Railways and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.". As the Government of the Republic of Croatia is known immediately after the text of the interpretation was made public, the members of the Croatian Railways Administration changed. Also, as far as we know, the government has not explained to us today why it has actually made this change. Since the task of the administration is exactly what the interpretation is required, which is to create conditions for further stabilising relations within the Croatian Railways, the safety of employees in the Croatian Railways, the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the enforcement of obligations towards the believers, etc. To assume that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also found that the administration it has just appointed is unable to carry out these tasks and therefore carried out its shift. Here I would like to say that the interpreters welcome this shift as a necessary condition for meeting the requirements of the interpretation and movement of the development of the Croatian Railways, but of course only this is not a sufficient condition to do so. I would also like to say that the interpreters expect that the new members of the HH administration will have enough expertise and experience to manage Croatian railways more successfully. The amended management of the Croatian Railways has neither managed to preserve during the last government created conditions for stabilising relations within the Croatian Railways. The previous government was welcomed by a accumulated, uncovered loss in the business of cca. 2 billion kuna. The supplier's accounts reached nearly 100 million kuna. The debt to foreign railways was over 320 million kuna. Debt to HEP and INI over 280 million kunas and suspends the supply of energy. This kind of financial situation, although very bad, is only a small part of the overall bad situation encountered by the past government in the Croatian Railways. In addition to that safety of rail transport, it was inadmissiblely low. The absence of almost all investment activities in railway infrastructure and rolling stock. Conflicts in management, affairs, etc. And finally very bad image of Croatian railways in public. The past government in its mandate managed to cover losses from previous periods, with society being recapitalised with 1.2 billion kuna. Croatia's railway has been put in a position to fulfil its contractual obligations by contractual deadlines. All obligations to foreign rail administrations have been measured. The restructuring process, i.e. the separation of parallel activities and their structuring into private companies. Social dialogue and the relationship between employer and worker was established, they were arranged for the first time after the Croatian Railways draft by collective agreement. The salaries of railway workers who were 25% below the wage average in Croatia's economy during the past government reached Croatia's average. These are just some of the activities that the then government has done to stabilise the situation in the Croatian Railways. In addition, the Council of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new Law on Railways in May 2003 and adopted a business plan for 2002/2007. The plan sets targets for Croatian railways to be among the three regional leaders in the transport of goods and passengers by 2007. Translate 20 million tons of cargo in 2007. Translate more than 40 million passengers in 2007, increase productivity per employee, at 12.4% per year. Increase the average technical speed on Croatian railway lines, increase track load capacity to the maximum limit provided for by the regulations and standards. And two. That is, Croatian railways will be ready for the European rail market match. The Investment Investment Plan provided conditions for achieving the objectives set. Unfortunately, of these goals and investments, the current government has given up and we are not familiar with its development plan for the Croatian railways. Why did the past government make all these efforts to heal the Croatian railways? For the simple reason that she fully understood the multiple importance of the railway and its impact on the development of the national economy and social life. The railway has effects, at least in the following areas, transport, infrastructure, economic, energy, environmental, social, European, etc.. Transport is an integral part and a condition of all stages of reproduction, i.e. production, exchange, distribution and consumption. The value of transport services is transformed into transport costs and the most important increase in transport capacity and the reduction in transport costs is for each stage of reproduction for both the economy and society. The increase in transport capacity reduces transport costs and directly affects the reduction of prices, goods and services and thus the price competitiveness of domestic producers. In addition to reducing the costs of modernising transport, it also plays an important role on the economy through increasing transport speed. The higher speed allows both production and trade to operate with smaller supplies or completely free of supplies, which does not directly allow further reduction of production costs. This increases the efficiency and competitiveness of the overall economy but also increases the standard of citizens and the economic well-being of society through lower prices. Furthermore, the railway has the characteristics of the infrastructure product. From an economic point of view, infrastructure products are actually a semi-product, i.e. an input that participates in the production of numerous final products in other activities. That's definitely what this railroad is. The infrastructure aspect of the railway as well as other infrastructure activities requires that its economic and profitability is not measured solely on the basis of revenue, expenditure or profits or losses incurred by the railway itself, but must be added to its indirect external revenues, which, by its own quality, by its capacity, it enables other activities. Therefore, the cost-effectiveness of investment in railways is not only assessed by the methods of assessing investment projects for standard activities but also by means of... an analysis that includes external, useful and external costs in addition to internal ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also due to large initial investment in railways, and many years of expansion periods, and thus many years of production contributions to other activities must be done not statistically but dynamically... We need to assess all future benefits and bring them down to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] an analysis of the current value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to these infrastructure features, railways have a major impact on the rise of the national economy and national wealth. The neighborhoods, or cities that it connected, experienced rapid economic growth and population growth. The railway transport in Croatia began on 29 October 1851 when the first test drive was carried out on the part from Čakovec to Kotoribe. The first railway line built with state capital was put into regular traffic from the Zidano Bridge via Zagreb to Sisak on October 1st, 1862. Since the development of the railway in the world began only a few years before the first railway transport in Croatia, I quote this data as proof that Croatia was in a trend to develop rail transport in the world 150 years ago, which could not be said for today's situation. The construction of railways allowed the development of areas where it was passing. Today the same effect has the development and modernisation of the railroad. Certainly today, the modernisation of the railway through Lika would encourage and create much greater opportunities for the development of this part of Croatia. Many productions that, with today's transport connection cannot be profitable in many parts of Croatia can become with modern railways. Many natural resources and geographical position of Croatia cannot benefit Croatian citizens without a modern Croatian railway. The maritime orientation of Croatia and its port facilities cannot make their full contribution to Croatia's development without modernising Croatian railways. When I say that, I mean not only Rijeka but other ports; Zadar, Sibenik, Ploče and so on. Each of them has natural or in past periods acquired comparative advantages for the transport of different types of goods, with Plots having almost unlimited potential for the development of port activities. The railway itself is a large customer or consumer and in the existing situation more than 100 larger or smaller Croatian companies produce goods or services for the needs of Croatian railways. For most of them, it is a locommit of their business and their development. The Croatian Railway Modernisation Project developed by the previous government, which was to be implemented over three years by 2007, was worth more than 15 billion kuna. According to the plan and structure of the investment, about 50% of the amount would immediately end up in the Croatian economy. This means slightly more than two billion each year of additional production in Croatia. This is about 1% of gross domestic product or Croatian gross domestic product would increase by about 1%. With the current spontaneous natural growth rate of the Croatian economy now being realized only with this project, economic growth would be over 5% and then many problems in Croatia would be easier. If Croatia's national economic interest was fully protected through the treaty, then the import part could also be paid to Croatian goods and services, which would raise the growth of the Croatian economy by another 1%. In addition to these macroeconomic indicators, modernising Croatian railways with the quality industrial policy of the Croatian government would mean a job for the new 500ths of Croatian small and medium-sized enterprises of different activities from builders, metals, engineers, electricians, electronicians, chemists, environmentalists and so on, but at a higher technological level. As European railways standardise domestic production developed for the purpose of modernising domestic railways, other European rail networks could also be exported for a short period of time. The more Croatia has, in European terms, the local and comparative advantages in the production of mechanics, electrical and electronic devices. The cancellation of the modernisation of Croatian railways will leave Croatia untapped and negative effects on the economy are produced instead of positive effects. The energy importance of the railway is reflected in its much greater energy efficiency than road transport. Energy consumption per unit of rail work, passenger transport is 3 and a half times lower, and in rail freight transport is 8.7 times lower than in these activities as part of road transport. Energy consumption per unit of transport for the truck is more than 4 times higher than transport, transport by rail or by waterway, and more than 60 times higher than energy consumption when transporting by aircraft than rail or ship. Only these few data indicate the importance of modernising the railroad in the time ahead and when the energy will become more and more expensive. As Croatia imports much of the energy and energy imports the modernisation of the Railways and its acquisition by most of freight and passenger transport, the first means the possibility of using different sources of energy, i.e. means energy flexibility. And secondly, it means lower imports of energy and improved the situation in the balance sheet. Oil and oil-bilical shocks and crises Croatia would have been able to handle more easily if it hadn't given up on the modernisation of HZ. The ecological effect of modernising Croatian railways is not only reflected in the lower energy consumption per unit of transport but also in the lower emissions of air pollutants. Railway transport has almost 30 times less CO2 emissions in grams per mile from road traffic, and almost 80 times less than air traffic. If the Modernisation project was implemented, Croatia would have a cleaner and healthier environment. The social impact of modernization is seen through better working conditions and higher wages in the modernised Railway. The social effect is also seen in the restructuring of Croatian Railways which has partially preceded the modernisation project when secondary activities are separated from the main activity. In this way activities such as printing, catering, construction, agency and similar activities that were secondary and provided services within the Croatian Railways and were only limited to the Croatian Railways by segregating the main activities and can concentrate on their development and other services to the Croatian Railways can provide services to others on the market. In this way they increase their efficiency, income, profitability and employment. The social impact of restructuring and modernisation of Railways is not only seen in the severance of workers but also in the creation of jobs and the creation of conditions for greater business and higher employment. The European Union has long been unable or unwilling to activate and implement the joint transport policy of the 1957 Treaty of Rome. In 2000, the European Parliament made a historic decision to fully open the rail freight market in 2008. The Treaty of Mastricht included the concept of a trans-European network, which enabled the creation of a transport plan, for transport infrastructure at European level with Community funds. The structural reform of railways is the basis of guidelines in the development of the European Union railways from 1991 and the 2001 guidelines and amendments. Starting with the fact that in the United States rail transport has 40% share in total freight transport, and in the European Union only 8% of the European Union has concluded that railways are not inevitable. The European Union aims to create a single rail system by 2020. This system needs to be achieved today: First, to increase the market share of Railways in the transport of passengers from 6 to 10% and in freight transport from 8 to 15%. Triple the productivity of the workforce. By 50% increase energy efficiency. By 50%, reduce harmful emissions. Increase infrastructure capacity to be proportionate to transport objectives. Priority must be to address problems that retain railway development. Lack of infrastructure, infrastructure suitable for modern transport and interoperability between networks and systems. A constant search for innovative production technologists. Resolve cost intransparency and unequal productivity and climate-reliable reliability of services that fail to meet the legitimate expectations of the user. By 2008, the entire European international freight network will be fully open to competition. The European Union sees in greater competition among railway operators a greater competitiveness of rail transport than other modes of transport. However, no rail system can be fully competitive unless all issues relating to the removal of technical barriers to trade in trains and their interoperability are resolved first, i.e. their ability to drive on any part of the network. That goes for the wagons, too. The focus should be on uniting the design of rail and construction features and on the specification for the rolling stock in order to ensure safe, clean and economically sustainable development. This is what the White Paper says: European transport policy for 2010, time for decision. What is the decision of the Croatian government? According to the Croatian government, it wants to introduce Croatia into the European Union. However, without modernising Croatian railways, Croatia's railway will have a hard time learning in the European Union, their partnership in transit transport through the Republic of Croatia will be lacking. Without modernization on Croatian tracks, foreign locomotives and wagons will be driven, only foreign operators. Foreign operators will pay only compensation for the use of railway infrastructure. It is known that the fee for using the infrastructure never covers its costs. Finally, this price of infrastructure will also be determined by the European Union body. These costs are covered by the tax revenues of domestic operators and other undertakings which are provided with cheap infrastructure. However, without modernising Croatian railways, Croatia will not have domestic operators, but Croatian infrastructure will be used by tax-paying operators in another country. For all the above and much more, it is suggested that the applicants of the interpretation are not mentioned to the Croatian Parliament to commit the Croatian Government to the conclusion, to propose a law that will legally ensure the smooth financing of the development and modernisation of Croatian railways and to draw up a dynamic plan per year to monitor the implementation of the programme, modernisation and restructuring of railways. Therefore, at the beginning of the exhibition, I said that the shift of administration is only a necessary condition for the necessary development and modernisation of Croatian railways, and that the current government recognises the enormous importance of Croatian railways as an infrastructure transport company, as well as its importance for the overall social economic development of Croatia. Therefore, I propose that you support the proposed conclusions in order to create the initial conditions for the development and modernisation of Croatian railways. In the end, let me just read one part of the letter sent to us by the Croatian Engineer's Union which confirms the justification of our interpretation. The letter we received reads: "Croatian railways d.o.o. are contrast, a mixture of old and modern, modern set of lean trains and old Shinobuses, outdated wagons and empty supermodern roll-vagons. A large part was designed, built from the middle to the end of the 19th century. We remind you that the devices we regulate train movements are over 60 years old. For example. Zagreb's Main Station provides a device built in from 1937 to '39 that we do not have secure road crossings on the corridor routes, and traffic is regulated without any technique, that the main signals are illuminated by oil lamps. HZ, Croatian Railways d.o.o. There are too many burdens for the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Railways d.o.o. are past. Modernisation of Croatian railways is a priority in the economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian railways are becoming one of the bearable backbones of state strategy and development." That's what the Croatian Machine Managers' Union of Croatia says. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46135	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Bozidar Kalmeta, will explain on behalf of the Government the government's report on this interpretation. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46136	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the union, I welcome you all together and. Here, I will first tell Mr. Representative and Honorary Professor that with much of what he said here, I absolutely agree. I agree that railways are of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. I agree that it is the spine and that it must be the backbone of the transport connection of the Republic of Croatia, more important than the highway. I agree that they have an immeasurable impact on Croatia's economic growth, that they have a growing position at a time when energy is increasingly expensive, when we take care of ecologicals etc., etc. Therefore, I really do have a lot of what you said and I would sign it and I would say it and I am glad that today is debated about Croatian railways here in the Parliament because all of what I said and what you said I think deserves a debate on Croatian railways. However, what I cannot agree with clearly is that it is said in the interpretation that the reason for the interpretation is because the government of the Republic of Croatia has stopped the development of Croatian railways. I really can't agree with that, and I can't accept it and I will try it on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry here today, I hope to successfully disprove, mostly speaking figures, and I think the figures are the best indicators and modernisation but also restructuring of Croatian railways. That figures are the best indicators in terms of traffic growth, in terms of growth and the amount of goods transported, in terms of collective agreement and in terms of social partners. So I think these are the arguments that we all have to accept at the very least. First, I believe that the Government has not stopped the development of Croatian railways, even though we have added gas, so to speak, when it comes to further development and modernisation of Croatian railways, respecting all the good that has been done before but also seeing a lot of the bad that has been done over the past 4 years. Here, for example. If we see which, what were the total releases from the state budget, I mean here both the Ministry of Finance and the publications from the positions of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, then in 2004, expensive, respected representatives and representatives of HZ were allocated 4 billion and 709 million kuna, in 2004, and in 2005, 3 billion will be, clearly because this year is not yet finished and 634 million kuna. Of these, transport and infrastructure subsidies amounted to 2 billion 683 million in 2004, and this year it will be even bigger, amounting to 2 billion 814 million. For comparison in 2003, this figure was a billion and 308 million kuna. I think it says enough how much this government cares about Croatian railways in terms of subsidies. However, I will say one more thing, that in 2004, the Ministry of Finance had to take over and repay the short-term loans that were taken for liquid liquidity. So it's not about the loans being taken to invest in either infrastructure or means of transport, it's about covering the current liquidity so that the Ministry of Finance had to pay back another billion and 683 million kuna that went from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development to another billion and a half kuna in the short term. By the way, in these two years, so in 2004 and 2005, there were no HH credit obligations to cover current liquidity. When we talk about investment in infrastructure and transport, here are the numbers. When we talk about infrastructure, then we have a realization from 2000 to 2005. I'm not going to read all those numbers now, because it would be hard to remember them, but the fact is that from year to year, that figure is growing. The realization was, like, 2002. - 269 million, 2003. - 789 million, 2004. - 960 million and in 2005, it's not over yet, it's going to be that much. It is similar when it comes to the realization of investments in transport. He's growing I don't know 2002. - 376 million, 2003. 496 million, 2004. – 874 million and 2005 also grow or total investment in infrastructure and transport from year to year, and these figures show this. Our interpretation further is the reason here that writes, is that we stopped modernising Croatian railways because we did not, or because we removed the provision from the law to start 0,60 kunas singled out for HZ infrastructure and that's true. We did, we did, and we did, and we found a better model that would put less burden on citizens with a greater effect. In fact, I will mention the key thing, that this law was passed in July, and then the government went through this regulation and made it clear to the future government that at the 4th month, it was supposed to be, introducing these 0,60 kunas per litre of HZ-infrastructure oil products. It would be a year, if we had done so, it would have been a billion and 400 million kunas that would have gone to HZ, similar to the HAC and Croatian models, actually the same as HAC and Croatian roads. However, this would mean that the price of gasoline for so many and oil derivatives would increase so much, and that would directly be the money paid by all those using fuel. We then said for that reason, so without hitting the price of fuel, to the standard of citizens etc. etc. We will give from existing tax revenues as much or even more money and we, therefore that year, and this year we give and give 200 million more in this way than we have introduced 0.60 kuna per litre for HH in a way that we have not put this on the burden of all those who use oil derivatives, so citizens, economies etc. etc. but we took it from our own incomes. That's what the numbers say, and that's the argument. Because here, I said before, in 2003, a billion and 38 million, in 2004, two billion and 683, that's about what, a billion and 400 more, and in 2005, two billion and 814, so a billion and 600 million more, 200 million more than they've introduced 0,60 kuna per litre of fuel. Because probably when they passed that law, they were considered possibly positive effects, but obviously they weren't seen negative effects then, and that's why it was prolonged to the new government to bring such a burden to the citizens that we didn't want, but we solved it in a more elegant, better way and with more money. When we talk about restructuring, it is very much carried out in the Croatian Railways and organisationally in a way clear by the dynamics set by the Croatian Parliament, by adopting and not knowing all of what is our obligation under the Law on Railways, whose start of application will begin on 1.1.2006. The law on separation and financing of railway infrastructure, it is in the final design that must be done. I don't know the national infrastructure program this Parliament will have to bring in similar to what the construction program brings, etc. So it's all going through its own time, but also when it comes to human restructuring, then I also have to say that it's not there that you care but that it's still working on it. In 2005, for the first time in 2005, some 600 HZ workers left voluntarily, or more, than was received. We had over the past period, I don't know in 2000 we had 21 thousand and 655 employees in the Croatian Railways. I mean, the total of the workers in the queen and the dependent societies, of which 18 thousand and 500 were, 35 in the queen, and 3 thousand and 200 were in the dependent societies. In 2003, that number increased overall, and I say this is the first time agreed, more than 500 HZ workers left voluntarily than was received. So I'm only talking about one example of human resources restructuring. If we look at the business of the Croatian Railways in 2004 and 2005, then we can say that with the 2 billion loans that we inherited, which is about as much as Mr. Professors and you said give the former Government inherited. So we are, this government inherited 2 billion loans for liquid liquidity and for obligations to suppliers at the end of 2003, so I apologize, except for those 2 billion obligations to suppliers, at the end of 2003 amounted to more than 530 million kuna, and after the first six months of this year without credit borrowing for the consolidation of the financial operations of HZ because I said at the beginning that there were no loans for liquid liquidity, and the liabilities were reduced to 460 million kuna and the average age of come, so I'm going to say the account, is somewhere around 111 days. There is therefore a shift in the business of the Croatian Railways. Moreover, growth in both passengers and goods is greater in Croatia than in other European Union countries. Here, for example. In the European Union, you have increased passengers by 0.4%, in Croatia we have 6% or 3%. Growth of goods 1.8 below even, drop minus 1.8% and in Croatia 14.3%. Therefore, from these few preliminary indicators, because I will report back to the debate, I really don't think it can be said in any case that this government has stopped the modernisation of Croatian railways. However, this government is aware of the roles and I said it at first, and here I agreed with the profession, the role and importance of the Croatian Railways and its employees in economic terms, but also in every other sense, this government will certainly continue to look at one of the new circumstances that comes about, which is also written by the union here as read. So it's HZ d.o.o. that this is the past, so HH has to be transformed, HH, the Law on Railways enters into force in 1.1. Accordingly, everything that needs to be done about further development in terms of both the programme and the infrastructure programme and in general one strategic development of the Croatian Railways and the financing of Croatian Railways in the future will be done. If we're going to go one step further, then I can make it clear that there's something else. I think that after this country or this country has completed all major infrastructure road projects, that, by then, HZ, by then and HZ would be in that other sense, the sense of restructuring and ready if then the model that has Croatian highways or Croatian roads for the realisation of such big projects and so much money would be applied. Because one system that could spend a lot of money a year clearly must be equipped and ready for it. But you'll agree with me on one more thing. It wasn't possible at the same time, but it's not just about this government, it's about the previous government, of course. There is no Croatian economy so much power at once to build so many kilometers of highways, and so many kilometers of railways, etc., etc. But from this data I said, in this opening statement, here I think I was able to deny that the Croatian government stopped investing in the Croatian railways because it is not true. And that's not true from these numbers that I've been saying, which are growing multiplely compared to 2003. They are growing even from 2005 to 2004, and they will grow, and the next budget will have even more funding for HZ than they did this year. It therefore speaks of the government's clear commitment to the investment and development of Croatian railways. Here, Mr. President, I'd like so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46137	Thank you very much. 6 Correction of incorrect allegations. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46138	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, it is incorrect that Mr. Minister claimed that this government did not stop the development of railways. Yeah, well, she's still got the gas. The situation in the Croatian Railways is unsustainable, according to the three central unions of the Croatian Railways. So it's not about my personal opinion. The unions warn that the situation in HZ has reached the bottom and that without changing the new tragedy on Croatian railways, it will not be possible to prevent it. They claim that traffic safety has never been more endangered than today, and the main reason is that it says, reducing the number of people without modernization. In addition, not only did these decent people send a letter to us parliamentary representatives, but Mr. Minister and you and Mr. Prime Minister, where they are just stressing that marginalisation and subinvestment of the Croatian Railways leads to questions about the functioning of the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46139	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46140	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Kalmeta that the government has not stopped the modernisation of Croatian railways. In fact, it is true that in the first 9 months of 2004, the government stopped because only the budget rebalancing pushed that 876 million and the other part related to the modernisation of the railways. So, the government treated the Croatian railways like this, not according to the song "Beige Jankac, Run Jankac, Boo Boo Beige" but "Stop Bozek, stop Bozek, the booze doesn't go away". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46141	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46142	I am correcting the incorrect quote of Minister Calmeta, who said the Law on the Extradition of 60 Lips for the Development of HH was a blow to the standard of citizens. This is simply incorrect because, as for the rise in fuel prices, it would not be 60 lipes, but only 30 lips would grow. And it's strange in your concern for the standard of citizens that you didn't worry about these 30 limes for these two and a half kunas how much fuel has grown at the time of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46143	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46144	Thank you very much. The minister said he was able to deny the claim that the development of Croatian railways had been stopped and that is incorrect. And that's what the numbers show. You see, Minister, we needed a 16 billion kuna from 2003 to 2007. That plan won't come true. But let's just take 2005, let's just take this year. The plan meant 3.9 billion kuna was to be secured, and 2.7 billion more for investments. That's 5.6 in total, and the government forecasts 2.8 billion for 2005. That's just twice as much. You know, because you can't claim now that 2.8 is more than 5.6. That's mathematically incorrect. It has been double-decreed, and this is double-declining, in this double-decreased amount, you as budget expenditures are calculated and sources secured from credit claims including the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the German Development Bank as well as all other credit sources so far secured. And there's inaccuracy in numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46145	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46146	Mr. President, I am correcting the imprecise allegations of a minister who said that the previous government had transferred the burden of making decisions on the prices of derivatives to the new government. That's not true. The decision on the price of derivatives was defined by the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Railways where it was very clear that 60 limes should be provided in the price of derivatives through excise duties. And that is why I believe that it is not a transfer from one government to another but rather a matter of realising Parliament's decisions because it is the government's business.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46147	And the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46148	I'll try two corrections in this short time. Therefore, the government has stopped the development of the railways because, by hitching a guarantee and reviewing 11 months, the loan guarantee already paid off 15.3 billion kuna. So we lost 2 years of investment in Croatian railways. And as for taking care of citizens' standards, I've calculated exactly. At the time when the Law on Railways was adopted and this amount of 30 limes was introduced, excise duty and VAT amounted to 2 kunas and 54 limes. With this price increase today, excise duties and VAT in fuel prices are 2 kunas and 94 June. Thus, increased taxes could find this difference that was not meant to go on the burden of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46149	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee want to take a word? Yeah. President Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go. A reporter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46150	I thank you, Mr. President. The Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 32nd session on 8 November discussed this Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for stopping the development of the Croatian Railways submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by 24 MPs. The Committee considered the Interpletion on Labour for Stopping as a parent body. In the debate, the Committee held a written report by the Government of the Croatian Parliament of Interruption of Railway Labour for the purpose of stopping development. The opening exhibition was given by a proposing representative who pointed out that the Croatian railway system is of huge influence on the Croatian economy and that it is necessary for the development and modernisation of Croatian railways to find additional resources. Since the state budget funds are not sufficient, it pointed out in particular that the former legal provision on the allocation of €0.60 per litre of sold oil products provided Croatian railways with a continuous inflow of funds necessary to implement the modernisation of development. He also said that the Interpol aims to warn the government of a series of measures to ensure that Croatian railways have the importance of the system and railways in the European Union with a special emphasis that the transport of passengers and the transport of goods is returned to the railways so that rail transport can be handled with other forms of transport. The government report was explained by a government official who agreed to invest in the development and modernisation of Croatian railways, but did not accept the allegations that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not enter development and modernisation funds since the government gave up part of its own income so as not to additionally burden Croatian citizens with new excise duties. In the course of his presentation, he gave a correction, I suppose there was also talk about it at the beginning of today's presentation. The debate expressed the opinion that the Croatian Railway should be financed according to the same model as the one under which highways were financed, and that finding outside the budgets of vital importance for the development and modernisation of Croatian Railways. After the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Meat and Connections of the Croatian Parliament, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion, an interpolation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is rejected for stopping the development of Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46151	Thank you very much, President. I'm opening a debate. ... You can't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There is no incorrect correction on the committee's report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no corrections to the Rules of Procedure. ... Do you understand, colleague Kovacevic, that I do not give you my word, because there is no correction of the incorrect quote on the committee's report [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I see exactly what you're thinking, thinking of this grammatical, spelling mistake 6 for, against 4 [[You don't read.]] It says that, clearly and clearly, the president made it clear, but that's not a correction to the incorrect assumption. [[So it says 6 versus, 4 for. What's that?]] Can not get folder: %s: %s Unable to correct [[/Intruder: You can, because she was reading a written report. How can you not?]] Well, it was said, did the president tell you that most of the votes that the report was adopted? [[Then you, as president of the Parliament, should not have allowed us.]] I can see very well, thank you very much. [[So read what it says, so I'm not blind.]] Thank you very much. [[Now you don't see well.]] I didn't give you my word. Please sit down. [[Intruder: President, give it up.]] You won't sit down when you want to, but you won't talk when you want to. [[I'll sit down whenever I want, but read what it says.]] I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46152	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, fellow railwaymen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, including myself as a railwayman, must say that I was surprised by the government's interpretation of the government's confidence in stopping investment in the Croatian Railways team before I was with many railwaymen, including many union representatives and the railways, as well as all of us want to invest more in the railway, to be the branch that will be the backbone of the economic development of the Croatian state as well as of all other states, and often the development of a single economy is measured as much as the development and the railway in a country, but the figures are those which speak something else about the good part of the figure said Mr Minister, and here I will try to say a few words on behalf of the club. During the period up to 2004, investment in the Croatian railways, infrastructure and HZ transport moved in such a way that the implementation of planned investments from 2000 to 2003 was far from planned, 34 to 55%. It was only in 2004 that 82% of planned investments were made. The largest investments were also made in kunas, made in 2004 out of billions and 835 million. Investments made in railway infrastructure during 2000 and 2001 are slightly below depreciation costs. In 2002, investments in infrastructure projects of billions and 438 million were planned, but were achieved with 18.8% and 270 million kuna, respectively. In 2003, 2 billion and 172 million kuna investments are planned, only 36% and 789 million kuna respectively. In 2004, the planned investments amounted to a billion and 653 million kuna, a realisation of 961 million kuna, i.e. 58% and that is the year with the biggest investment achieved in the period 2000 to 2004. In 2005, Croatia's railways wait for the realisation of investment in HZ infrastructure by the end of the year about 60%. Almost the same situation is in investment in HZ transport. In 2002, mainly in 2003, more investment was planned in HZ transport, 847 million kuna in 2002, i.e. a billion and 574 million kuna in 2003. The realisation of investment in 2002 was 44.4%, i.e. In 2003, 376 million kuna was realized at 31.54%, i.e. 496 million kuna of the planned billion and 574 million kuna, in 2004, the achievement was higher than planned by 48%. The HH transport invested 874 million kunas with tilted trains, with no tilted trains 619 million kunas. Two loans amounting to 254 million kuna have been agreed for the financing of the purchase of lean trains. For the payment of these loans, HZ paid 5 and a half million kuna on interest, and since 2005, the Ministry of Finance has taken over the obligation to repay the loan in full whose last war is due in 2003 total interest 34 million kuna and the principal 254 million kuna. While it is necessary once again to point out that, as far as I have information, the same are obtained without competition, through the intermediate company and how much information I have trains, new trains tending techniques as such the latest word of technique, when Croatia enters the European Union it will not be able to drive in the countries of the European Union even though they are the last word of the technique. Speaking of modernising the railway, I personally think that it is necessary, but also when we go into modernising a passenger corridor, one rail that is needed primarily to access it studioically and first all to have a building permit, then we do a study of the restoration of the railway, in this case I mean the Lika railway, and we also not only do the lower machine, but we also have to do road crossings and SS devices and TK devices and travel crossings and everything else. I said two years ago in this House that we would have a situation that the slope train between Zagreb and Split would drive for 4 hours and 35 minutes only that day when it was the first time driving and never again, because it was not modernized what should have been modernised on the track from road crossings, down tunnels, bridges, passes and everything else. We have a situation, and fellow railways know well that one, the journey of a tilting IC government, depends on whether once it depends on whether a turner gets a flat tire on a bicycle because a trafficker has to send it to a road crossing to secure the road crossing because the train will pass. So, the journey of an IC train depends on whether a turner will snap a tire on his bike. In 2005, up to 31.8.2005, 43.3 investments in HH transport were realised and the realisation is expected at almost 100%. By the end of the year, a contract with Djuro Djakovic on the construction of 320 freight wagons concluded in 2003 with a total value of 291 million kuna. Under this contract in 2003, Đuri Djakovic was awarded funds in the name of an advance of 98 million kuna. The delivery of the wagon started in 2004 when 101 wagons were delivered and paid in the name of the delivery of the 94 million kuna. In 2005, 162 wagons have been delivered so far, and 64.8 million kuna has been reported. By the end of 2005, the remaining 57 wagons and Djuri Djakovic will be delivered to another 34.2 million kuna. In 2004 and 2005, a total of 193 million kunas will be paid. A further 300 wagons with Đuro Đakovic factory are under way. Financial support for the need to conduct investments has not been accompanied by these projects. As follows, interventions from the 2000 budget amounted to 141.5 million and 10 million kuna in 2004. The 2005 plan is one billion and 88 million kuna. It is evident that budgets for investment in programmes and projects were planned in 2005 higher than for the period 2003. In four years 2003, the investment budget allocated 588 million kuna in 2005 and 797,8 million kuna. When it comes to strategic projects in 1990, the Parliament adopted a strategy for the traffic development of the Croatian Railways, which indicated that Croatian Railways are planning to invest in the modernisation of the Croatian railways from 99 to 2004. $1.9 billion or 11.8 billion. That's just as much in the period 2005-2010. In 2011-2020, 4 billion dollars and 25 billion kuna, respectively. The priority in the development of rail transport is defined by the strategy. These are investments in corridors, Zagreb nodes, changing the system of draws, developing IT infrastructures as the basis for the implementation of new technologies, suburban transport in a broader sense, modernising and obtaining tow and towed capacities in the function of transport of passengers and goods. I hope that in the next period, and I am almost certain that the next year will also be the beginning of the construction of the second track from Klara to Karlovac, and then move on to Rijeka for what there are as far as I know and already the basis for the implementation of the competition. According to the Law on Railways, the obligation of the State budget is also the provision of means to encourage passenger transport and the means to maintain railway infrastructure. Over the past years, these funds have been very uneven, planned in the state budget, so that in 2003 total subsidies and investments were billions and 308 million kuna, in 2004 2 billion 757 kuna and in 2005 2 billion kuna and 889 kuna. Due to the lack of funds for regular business and investment in infrastructure projects that are required under the Law on Railways, the Croatian State had a permanent problem of liquid liquidity, which resolved by short-term borrowing and in 2002 HZ was granted a short-term loan of 600 million kuna, a payment of credit to the budget in 2004. In 2003, HZ was granted short-term loans of 400m kuna and 500m kuna, loans to the burden of the budget in 2004. In early 2004, HZ withdrew short-term loans amounting to HRK 179 million on behalf of the return of short-term loans raised during 2001 and 2003, the payment of loans to the budget's budget in this year 2005. In fact, the payments of these short-term loans to the burden of the state budget totaled a billion and 703 million kuna, the capital of a billion and 600 and interest rate of 25 million kuna. HZ, this is important to note, from his own income he paid 63.7 billion kuna interest on these loans. The State budget in financial terms for the previous period from 2000 to 2003 was marked by a strong HH credit expansion with the main intention of financing current business costs instead of investment. It can be concluded from the above that between 2000 and 2003, the short-term borrowing of the Croatian Railways along with state guarantees created a vision of the financial stability of the Croatian Railways. In fact, the most expensive methods of financial rewinding were implemented, with the cost of payment including high interest and other credit costs being transferred to the country and delayed for a future period. During 2004 and 2005, there were no new loans from the Croatian Railways to maintain the current liquidity or issue of new state guarantees in favour of the Croatian Railways, but the main effort was to continue the intensive implementation of existing long-term loans with the intention of investing in the infrastructure capacities of the Croatian Railways. The AIB loan for the reconstruction of railway arms on corridor 5C, the end of the loan of 4433 from 98, for the restoration of network infrastructure as a whole to finance 43% of needs, for severances to workers and loans to KFV for the restoration and modernisation of the railway line, i.e. shares on the so-called 5B branch corridor. As part of the 2005 budget, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism provided 3 billion and 634 million. Kuna for financing the needs of Croatian railways. For the first time in 2004 and 2005, the state budget demonstrated in a transparent way the funds for positions intended for Croatian railways. However, with the means to maintain rail infrastructure for the promotion of passenger transport, to invest in programmes and projects, long-term loans in the state budget were also required to provide funding of a billion and 703 million kuna for the settlement of commitments under those short-term loans. If these were investment-oriented, many issues would have been addressed, financing investments in modernising the purchase of mobile capacities, wagons, motor trains, locomotives, and investments in infrastructure capacities. Speaking of which, I think it's necessary to make a strategy here. We're on the Croatian railways today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46153	Please conclude the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46154	Today on the Croatian Railways we have a colourful of tow vehicles that are not available by any European country and certainly beyond the Kennedys, the fields, the Hungarians and we do not yet have Russian tow vehicles, and that is what certainly burdens Croatian railways, burdens people in purchase today. We have purchases of 1 billion kuna. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46155	Please! Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46156	Trying to bring down the insurmountable thesis that this government stopped the modernisation of Croatian railways our colleagues tried to impress us with a large number of data that can be found in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I don't know exactly what to quote the number of wagons that the colleague said were modernized in 2005, they were two-digit, three-digit numbers. The truth works, it should be said, during 2004/2005. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46157	Which quote are you correcting, the fact and the claim, exactly which particular quote are you correcting, please?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46158	The number of cars that are modernized, by the number of cars that were modernised during 2004 and 2005. And it was a two-digit or three-digit number. I didn't remember him which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46159	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46160	I'm correcting that number as incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46161	What number?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46162	The number of modernized cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46163	What number? You're correcting a number without saying which number you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46164	Number. Like this, said fellow 320, 320 sorry, cars modernised in 2005. It should be said that this was not a new investment cycle, but was the realisation of the contract concluded in 2003. And the truth for 2005, all that was modernised were two restaurants and no single freight wagon, and no new job was ordered for modernisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46165	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46166	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, So in March, so that debate was held on March 3, 2004, in front of the IDS Club in the railway development strategy, among other things, I was saying, quote: "It is indisputable, we can impose the modernisation of railways through the price of gasoline, however, our citizens, I will say on such an alchemy allergic. They are simply against it and are rightly sensitive to it." So, anyway, I think it would be extremely unpopular, and also counterproductive that we went to the railways' recovery by increasing the price of oil or oil derivatives by 60 limes. This transfer means the burden of restructuring railways to all drivers, to all drivers in the Republic of Croatia... 2 million kunas I think would be extremely wrong, but it would be harmful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the price, let's say, if you look at the price of oil derivatives then you'll see that the Super 98 today is 8.30 kuna per litre, 8.30, with these 60 limes would be 8.9, EURO Super 95 is 7.77, on today, so far it's bo 7.98. That's 2.6% down. It was 7.70 kuna per litre today, so far it was 7.93, SUPER Plus 98. Today it was 7.89 so far it was 8.28 kuna per litre, that it was still these 60 limes, so it would be gentlemen by yesterday defacto 8.9 kuna per litre, EURO DISEL is 7.34 kuna today, until now it was 7.40 so it would have been equal to 8 kuna if by any chance it had agreed to one such alchemy with 0.60 lips. EURO DESEL BLUE 4,48 kuna, this has not changed, etc., etc. Now, what do I know to say here? So imagine, for example, that we have to pay from these 60 June 5.25 kunas a liter. It's simply unacceptable and it can't be gentlemen of economic logic. That way, in my deep conviction, it's not possible to approach the railroad recovery. Do you know how many liters of gasoline you can buy with average Croatian salary? Of course you don't. With average Croatian salary you can buy 577 liters of gasoline. The price until yesterday was EUR 1.04. In Austria with average salary you can buy 1923 liters of gasoline, in the Netherlands 1721 etc., etc. These would be comparisons with the countries of old Europe, while in Slovenia you can buy an average salary of 1136 litres, or 600 liters of gasoline more than in Croatia. Where note bene gas is clearly cheaper than in Croatia. While in Bosnia and Herzegovina you can buy only 266 liters and in Serbia only 179 liters or 400 liters less than in Croatia. That's what gave them the fight to buy 400 liters of gasoline less than Croatian citizens from a '90s policy in 2005. Of course, the cheapest gasoline is always in America, but let's let it go now. Now there's a problem with these railroads. No one in Croatia in Croatia should agree to collect the gasoline for 0,60 of these kunas or 60 of them, so that instead of 11 reserves per month with an average salary of 4,400 kuna, a future average citizen of the Republic of Croatia can buy only 9 reserves. The impact on other prices would also be, for example, this union basket that today represents 6 to 7 thousand kuna in which the city would be simply horrendous. So in that part of the government that didn't allow the oil or oil harvesting, I'm deeply convinced she didn't do it badly, and it has to be acknowledged that it was a good decision. The problem, however, is other natures and there, unlike these 0.60 liters per litre, the promoters are probably right. Mr Kalmeta, as said in this report, has guaranteed the modernisation of the railways and is now asking the question of what has been achieved. Whether something has been achieved or little has been achieved, in relation to the enormous needs of the Croatian Railways. Mr. Kalmeta guaranteed the modernisation of the budget, and we all realized that it was in some way almost impossible for a mission to spend almost 80% of the state budget on social services in this country, counting, clearly, in that regard, the payment of external and domestic loans, which is somewhere around 80 billion kuna. That's exactly how much. So 80 billion kuna goes to fixed costs. And while that is the case, there will not be a single recovery of Croatian railways. Although just before the minister first spoke about how the next year would be for the recovery, or I don't know that the restructuring of the railways will set aside a billion and 600 million kunas higher than in 2003. So out of the 100 billion kunas of budget money for 2006 where we have 30 billion going on pensions, 10 billion on debt, 15 billion on health care, 25 billion on the salaries of 200 thousand people on the budget, 4 billion for defenders, for development, that is, for investment in this country remains somewhere around 15 billion kunas about double what the mayor of Zagreb has at this point. And that's Croatia's reality. And we simply cannot escape from it, gentlemen. We do not have the money for some strategic development of Croatian resources, which should then clearly create money for the launch of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is about ports, whether it is about railways, whether it is about local roads, whether it is about restructuring of public companies. What's our problem? And you can see that here, too, there's no consensus on what to invest in and how to invest money. It means how to move on. Clearly, if you're building or trying to invest in these railways, you need to know where we can receive or soak the money. One is a loan that can be taken by the railway itself, probably with government guarantees, another is the one proposed from the price of gasoline, the third can be from the privatisation of the Railways and the fourth on which the Government insists it is from the budget itself. Now, if only only the railroads in this country were a problem, then it would be easy for me to end up with that problem, but what about all the other social pensions, or don't I know what other problems? What is certainly a problem is that Croatia unfortunately has no accumulation itself. With these 15 billion kunas a year, as much as it remains available to the Government for Capital Investments, Croatia certainly cannot develop. So it is worth attracting capital, but Croatia does not seem to want it, regardless of what we have such geographical potential, that we can do a miracle if we are smart especially along the Adriatic coast. But to get back to the railroad. What perhaps I am at this point as much as possible do not give God an oil-gathering interest are those dead arms or that dead leg better said in Istria where you have to come to Zagreb to go round Ljubljana. A clear question arises here what about the Ucka tunnel which could, by any chance, have been built to attract almost complete transport from all of the Western Mediterranean, Spain, France, Italy and so on if that transport goes towards Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Russia and so on. We are here somewhere in 1993, not us but the president, the late President Tudjman laid the cornerstone, however, from that tunnel to today there is neither T nor T. So we in the IDS welcome this debate safely. God forbid, I'm once again building myself on the idea of introducing 0.60 lime per litre of gasoline, but we clearly want to solidarity with all those who take care of Croatian railways. The infrastructure was mostly left to us by Austria, and we are unable to maintain it. And that's clearly our tragedy. I understand there was a war between 1991 and 1995. Thus, we were surrounded by certain directions. There is no money in the budget, but it is certainly necessary to dedicate ourselves to the railway and we support this impelation so clearly to change the management of what has been done, to go towards certain credit obligations of the Croatian Railways and also to the guarantee of the Croatian Government. To create this dynamic plan for the modernisation of the railways referred to in point 4. But on this third point, and this is the addition of oil derivatives for 60 limes, we simply can't accept it until it's changed for that we won't even vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46167	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46168	I'm correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Cain who said that the fuel would grow by 60 limes and that it would carry 8 and 60, or if we were talking about a box of oil 5 and 50. That's not true. The fuel would have collected for 30 limes, and if we take that the fuel price at the time of the law was 5 and 80 with 30 limes is 6 and 10. Six and ten. Evidence that citizens could handle it because now they're paying more than 8. But what's also important is VAT. So no INA's price from that time from 1.04 kuna increased to 1.44 kuna. The state took 40 kunas at this time of increase. 40 limes. She took 40 lips. But she didn't give 30 for the railroad. And that's the basic thing. The price, from the price of the derivative, was to go to a dedicated special means for the development of the railway. Not that the state and 40 limes take and we don't know where they're going. And that's the difference in the bill that was.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46169	Thank you very much. Second correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46170	A colleague, Damir Cain, says that the extraction of 60 limes per liter of gasoline is alchemy. And that's the quote I'm correcting. It's no alchemy. It was a well-imaginable form of financing the modernisation of the Railways. An unusually important choice of money. And if it had been carried out by the Railways today, their development wouldn't have been stopped, and in 2008, when the competition came, then we'd eventually have a chance. We would almost certainly have a chance to get passenger transportation or freight transport in Croatia. And this is how fellow Caine in Croatia will be carried out by the Germans, Hungarians, Austrians, who knows who but the Croatian company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46171	The third correction of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46172	I will also correct this inaccuracies that have been correcting my colleagues before me but in a different way. It is therefore incorrect that because the development of the railway would be participated in the fuel price today's fuel price would grow in the way a colleague said. Namely, taxes take part with 37% in the price of fuel. Especially in height today from 2.94 kuna. The smart government would know that investment that would go towards the railway would not cause a price increase but would go to the burden of the funds that are paid into the state budget through such taxes and excise duties, which would especially return to the state budget because they would benefit from certain other branches that would be participating in the development of the railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46173	Thank you. Honored representative Zlatko Kramarić, Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC and LS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46174	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues or respected, preparing for this debate, I decided to travel with our railway and on the route of Osijek-Zagreb. And I came to a sad realization that as a student 30 years ago, I got on the same train that was then called Podravka Express. And that's pretty much what it's saying is that the flow of time doesn't have to mean either, and that we're gonna get somewhere faster. However, we consider it useful and good to open a parliamentary debate on the state of the Croatian railway even by launching this interpolation. In some other countries, neighbouring countries and discussions are also being held, they are very tough. They are also conducted at the level of the profession, and even before the adoption of the Law on Railways, the opinion of the highest public was sought through a referendum. What's evident about us, which is that in, that in 15 years we managed to replace 11 administrations. And that clearly indicates that these problems are neither small nor since yesterday. And as the time has come to address the problems facing HZ and the entire transport system to finally move this problem from the field of daily policy to the field of science and profession. However, outside the state of HZ, the following can be seen: First, internal subjective weaknesses of the system, second inconsistency in the conduct of its own decisions, violation of non-compliance with decisions and strategic documents adopted by this Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It is a strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, the lack of railway development in line with all its social advantages as well as the lack of one systematic and institutional form of cooperation between the administration, ministers and government with social partners, primarily the trade unions in the Croatian railways. What would be the internal weaknesses of the railway system? Apparently, I hope I don't offend anyone because it's not my intention that HZ is one trom, a highly centralised system that's being monitored from the outside, too sensitive to the political environment and the disturbances on the political scene. The responsibility for this situation is equal to that of both the position and the opposition. The position is because it wants to oversee the entire system and lead the company's overall business policy, and the opposition sees its political chance in destabilizing the entire system. Destabilization of the system destabilizes management, competent minister, government and government as a whole, which is usually present when HZ becomes the main media news. It is not disputed that the opposition points to the weakness of the system, but it is not good to break political accounts across the back of the railway. We have witnessed how recently it has been spoken of as an insecure carrier, traffic accidents are placed at the centre of the problem, and what is actually the most tragic is called new ones. After such and similar statements to expect further loss of confidence in HZ, decline of traffic, new uncertainty, above all for workers of Croatian Railways. We can only imagine how the market would react if, in the same relations publicly and with the highest level, it spoke about air carriers, bus carriers or the like. so recently we had opportunities to read in one of our newspapers, and I quote: "Because of stopping the modernisation of the huge damage suffered by the railways themselves, the Croatian economy and the citizens themselves. In HH, maintenance costs and number of employees are increasing. Contracts with Gredelj, Djakovic and other companies based on railway development have been suspended. As a result, there have been terrible clashes between HZ and trade union administrations, and the results are frequent train crashes, fear of train travel and huge damage to our ports. It's really very difficult words. These qualifications have been made public and they question the safety of passengers and goods, but I wonder how much they can really help HZ. We can personally agree that the situation on HH is not good, that the issue of financing HH development is also needed, that perhaps one of the best proposals is precisely the order of these 0.6 kunas from excise duty, from the price of oil derivatives for railway development purposes, but it is difficult to accept that the safety of passenger and goods transport is embedded on the railway, and that there is fear of train transport. I think it's still a little more projection than there really is some reliable survey or data or question who's the source of that information at all. However, with all its weaknesses, HZ is one of the safest carriers, so at the very least it is an incorrect factor of security to question and use it for daily political purposes. After every shift of administration, and thus the last in the towers again announces the shift of hundreds of new people within the system, and in this I say, the circumstances probably not in any HZ employee can be too pleasant. For HH and its perspective is not a solution that has been practiced by all the governments so far, but I am also afraid of what the opposition is doing now. The solution that I advocate as a parliamentary representative is to build a stable system, a system that will be immune to political changes that make elections. Often changes in administration, new organisations, lack of long-term railway development policy, externally potent conflicts within the railways, etc. They further influence the bad business of the railway, the wandering without a goal and a generally bad picture of the railway. The HZ administration should have a longer mandate, the government's trust and ministers' ability to manage processes within the HZ. The application of the new HZ Act adopted by this Assembly is likely to take place in 2006, unless the Parliament decides otherwise to get competition on track. Instead of this effort, the more ready the competition and the merciless competition HZ has been engaged in itself for a long time and, unfortunately, the full pillars of the black chronicle. These turmoils also disrupt human relations, quickly reject and consume a highly qualified frame, and within the system there is the untapped most valuable frame that may not be presently or at some other point politically similar. I advocate the professionalization of management in any institution, as well as in HH. There is something we must say about the inconsistency in implementing our own decisions and disrespecting the strategic documents adopted by this very Parliament. The status and position of the railway can be explained by the fact that the non-compliance of strategic decisions adopted by the Council of the Republic of Croatia as the most legislative body of the Republic of Croatia by statements of the most prominent government officials who, as a rule, have found that the Croatian economy is increasingly dependent on the railways, that the railway is no longer and that for society, the cheaper solution is to keep railway workers at home and send them wages rather than to let them work. We consider such behaviour to have contributed to the poor state in which our national railway is now located. Fortunately, not everyone follows that policy. And let's say that in recent days, the prime minister and mayor of the city of Zagreb have found themselves trying to agree on certain joint projects in which, within the resolution of the traffic collapse in the City of Zagreb, railways would play an inevitable role. I think that this same model can be applied to all, especially larger cities in the Republic of Croatia, and that in this way, it could be shown that the railway can be involved in solving these in the first order of the problems of transporting citizens to large cities to avoid these collapses and bumps on the roads. Furthermore, it is quite clear that quality and success in overcoming the HH crisis depends on the quality of the proposed programmes, but also on the available cash that unfortunately does not exist at this time. We can ask ourselves why all the debates and decisions of the Parliament if we do not follow them. I only note that at the meeting held on 12 November 1999, the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives adopted the Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia and in this document, respecting the contribution of transport to general economic development, the framework structure of investments has also been established in certain parts of the transport system, as follows. For roads and road traffic 40%, railway and rail transport 25%, for maritime and river transport 20%, air traffic 5% and for integrated transport, modern transport... And terminals about 10%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to information that comes to me as a railway agent, including some professional scientific circles, and the government itself, this framework plan is not respected, so the investment in the railway is well below schedule. If so, it would be interesting to hear the explanation of why it is being easily bypassed and not respecting the decisions of this House and who will ultimately be carrying out the conventions. In addition to respecting their own decisions, traffic policy measures in the Republic of Croatia would be necessary to mobilise real development factors, particularly those that are without significant investment can act in the direction of building a social optimal transport system, in which HH could play a leading role. The share of transport costs in the price of finished products in Croatia is about 25% unlike developed Western countries, where these costs range around 8%. This shows that in Croatia, the classical transport policy that the developed West left 30 years ago is still being pressed against insolvent problems in transport and the environment. The orientation on the roads for Croatian society ultimately means hyperinflation of road vehicles. Let's just say in the city of Osijek they increased from the '90s. Year for 3 times, further pollution and environmental degradation, higher investment in road maintenance, higher number of traffic accidents and company costs, road congestion, lack of quality rail transport, irrational fuel consumption, etc. While in Croatia there is a road, especially personal traffic expansion, the same different measures are being prevented and braked for the benefit of public transport, the more environmentally acceptable in which the railway can, or plays a dominant role. Also, we cannot be satisfied with the relationship between administration, ministers and government and social partners. We don't think that's good, that there have been some good attempts, but unfortunately these very fast shifts, frequent shifts, 11 exactly 15 years really testify that it's not easy to actually create some long-term projects. And now what necessary measures does the club LS, DC and HSLS propose to the competent Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? First, ensuring all material assumptions for the continuation of restructuring and modernisation of HZ, respecting the decisions adopted by this Assembly, which concern the redistribution of financial resources by transport branches, i.e. greater means of rail transport, mobilising the domestic profession and the public of railways and various scientific institutions in the design and implementation of plans and programmes adopted or yet to be adopted by the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in particular by the strategy of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and by a consistent rail development strategy in the Republic of Croatia and by the special Law on the privatisation of the Railways. Furthermore, limit the number of licenses for trucks, lorries and similar vehicles, limit their loadability, transport route and type of consignor. Introduce environmental benefits for all road users according to the adopted declaration, law and environmental strategy, and in principle the cause pays all the damages that it creates for people in nature and on objects. Finally, these are standards that apply in the European Union, i.e. in Western Europe, which have long been applied and do not need to invent hot water at all. To bring about the obligation of permanent detachment of part of the fuel price and part of the ecological fees for the modernisation of railways, to stimulate transport of goods by rail, in particular containers and... transport, road vehicles of trailers, road vehicles and other forms of combined and multimodal transport, to form a global investment policy for the development of social rational complementary transport with permanent planning of the amount of funds, to adapt legal regulations, to limit road vehicles in time and space, especially in the area of large cities, and to prefer the development of bus and rail transport of persons trams and trains, and to achieve significant effects in suburban transport in the area, I say, there is already something to do, there is in the plan to solve the problem of Zagreb, sometimes popular trains as a "samor", it is also worth to Split and Rijeka, and from personal experience, I also say that inclusion and more important transport in the city, i. Then organise a combined transport of persons to all types of traffic along a single transport document to 30-year-old solutions in Western European countries and eventually set up a rail development committee made up of HZ experts, scientific institutions, ministries and who would then work permanently on the HH development strategy in line with the needs of the development of the entire transport system and thus avoid this ad hoc solution that I say, in fact, instead of bringing problems, actually participate solely in destabilising this we have said a very sensitive and tromogue system which then ends in the end with quite and panic warnings that people who drive trains must actually fear for their lives, which we do not think are good messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46175	Thank you very much. HNS MPs' club, a respected representative of Alenka Kočica Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46176	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Secretary and Mr. Assistant Minister. The transport system in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most non-national in Europe. This confirms the information presented just before by counterpart Kramarić, that the costs of transport in the price of goods and products participate with 25% while in Europe it is common that it is 8% of gross social product. The long-term lack of adequate transport policy and transport strategy followed very poor technical and technological, organisational and economic conditions in the entire rail transport system in Croatia, and the debts of Croatian railways to creditors were over 60 days and brought Croatian railways into a practically pre-collapse state. It's a situation that the government has come across. Seeing this situation on the Croatian Railways, the government proposed to the Parliament in 2000 the already mentioned strategy for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Croatian Railways, which was established after the debate in the Parliament on 10.11.2000, and the Parliament adopted special conclusions that are binding on all types of governments that come later. What has not been adopted to date has not yet been adopted by the only national programme. With respect to those conclusions, business plans have been adopted, a business orientation based on continuous modernisation of stable and mobile capacities has been adopted. The former legal provision on the allocation of €0.60 per litre of sold petroleum products guaranteed the Croatian railways the continuous cash inflow necessary to implement the modernisation of development for which these funds were intended. It should be noted that modernising the infrastructure is impossible without continuous and certainly predictable financial resources. Unlike roads, the reconstruction on the track must be started and completed as soon as possible, otherwise it is a permanent loss. During 2003, Croatian railways received funds and funds from excise duties of oil derivatives, and that is, if we accept a change, i.e. a correction from 77 million to 315 million from other budget allocations, and it is not an exact claim that only 77 million were allocated for modernisation during 2003. After all, members of the administration at the time should be magicians to launch and complete investments worth more than a billion and a half kuna. However, it is not logical to argue that during 2004, Croatian railways received more than 200 million kuna from existing tax revenues but would have received from excise duties. Namely, I would refer you to page 2 on which it says, you have a table number 1 and when you read the text below, he says: Therefore, from the introduction of a fee for petrol of $0.60 per liter of petrol from the Croatian railways would generate revenue of 1.4 billion kuna, and the decision of the Government of Croatia was awarded to the railway company 1.6 billion kuna. Two types of revenue intended for Croatian railways are mixed, and these are revenues from excise duty and means to encourage passenger and combined transport, i.e. subsidies. Assuming that we are, the government, according to the government's forecasts of excise duty, would be allocated 1.4 million kuna in 2004, and the subsidies, according to your data, were 430 million kunas in 2004. If we add these two together, it would be 1,830 million kuna in that case, which is 230 million kuna more than you gave because you gave one billion and 600 million kuna. I warned my colleagues about this math, and she seems pretty transparent to me. What doesn't seem to me is that the funds haven't been allocated here, so practically in your report it's packed into one and it's therefore indistinguishable how much it went to subsidies and how much it went for the other costs in HH. It's the only one, so in some way he hid that information I'd say, or he didn't do it right. The example of the movement of the number of employees in the queen and the dependent societies is contained in Table 2. It is not adequately worked out that it cannot be fully concluded from that table. It is not worked out whether the new workers received in the HZ queen or in the dependent societies I do not see it from that table, which in most cases were completely inadequately staffed. There is also a lack of information on whether dependent companies were receiving workers in order to increase the volume of work. You can't see the same thing from that. Third, it is a completely incorrect claim that investment in railway infrastructure has been wrongly put in place by forging projects and modernising the railway line on the 5-B1 corridor. This direction is extremely important for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, as it connects the region of Dalmatia and Central Adriatic ports, Zadar, Split and Sibenik with the interior. In this area lives and works for a third of the population of Croatia, and this railway was in catastrophic condition, literally prior to closure. No adequate insurance, very low commercial speed and low axle pressure. Without this railway, there is an unimaginable reason for those ports which have previously the necessary infrastructure and good operating conditions as well as for the economy of the character and Dalmatian regions. I should point out that Luka specializes in scattered cargo and only in business with Petrokemia in Kutina transports about 800,000 tonnes of cargo annually. The 5B and 10 corridor lines are in relatively good condition and their modernisation can wait for the completion of the modernization of the faceline. Natural indicators for 2004 and 2005 speak precisely about the effects of modernisation from previous years and are expected to result from the modernisation of the railway and rolling stock. The review of the extraordinary events presented by the number and duration of the traffic interruptions and hours shown in Table 3 does not speak very much because these include very frequent cases of drag and tow failures. It's snowing and stuff. It is necessary to display the type and severity of the extraordinary event in order to get the right picture. Did it occur because of technological discipline, technical reasons, or any other force? However, it can be concluded that it is not a visible trend of reduction but rather an increase in the number of extraordinary events. In 2003, if we analyse the largest number, we can conclude that this is the logical consequence of major investment activities in modernization, resulting in frequent railway closures. And a large number of participants in the work have also caused a number of extraordinary situations. In 2004, reduced investment activities also reduced the number of extraordinary events. In 2005 that number came back to the level of 2003. Although the work on modernization is almost dead. It should be noted that during 2005, there were several difficult extraordinary events such as the one where two passenger trains between Zagreb and Rijeka were avoided, or the rollover of a tanker in Ivanic town or insufficient brake trains for Rijeka, etc. The restructuring of the Croatian Railways should support the conclusion on the provision of loans for the current settlement of all debts to creditors because the commitments result from stockpiling and increased maintenance costs due to the non-implementation of the modernisation conclusion are extremely high. It's final. Decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia bring about an economic result which would make Croatian railways less revenue than they would have achieved with excise revenues. The government did not give up part of its own income in favour of modernising Croatian railways and should not additionally burden citizens with new excise duties. Instead, a redistribution should be carried out by reducing excise duties in the budget. That is, by extracting 0,60 limes per litre in favour of modernising Croatian railways as it will thus reduce the trend of borrowing for the purpose of financing liquid liquidity. Modernisation should continue immediately because the number of passengers and goods transported from this year and last year is evident, precisely as a result of the modernisation of previous years. To stop the increase in the number of extraordinary events, we have in the table data that from 1 to 9 months there were such events a thousand 762. They are practically, when you recalculate it, at 2003 level, depending on how we calculate. Then we get for all 12 months in an average of 2 thousand 348 or 2 thousand 640, depending on what we share with. So, we from the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of the proposed conclusions from the Interpellation because we believe that the development of the railway is of strategic importance to a better quality of life and the development of the Republic of Croatia. As did the most successful minister in the past government, Cacic, when he decided to opt for extra budget financing for highway construction. Which, gentlemen, no matter what we call it, we're all driving today. Although I don't understand why the promoters wanted, what the promoters wanted to achieve with this Interpellation when it was not seen whether the Minister was asked for a shift with it or a government shift. This is what it looks like as one personal political promotion, and this debate would be sufficient to suggest conclusions and perhaps not why we should go to Interpletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46177	Thank you very much. I am reporting that the time has elapsed for applications for a ten-minute hearing. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46178	Well, I'll say a few words, I didn't want to say it in the introduction, but I see that I have to say it, which we inherited in HZ at the end of 2003. And we inherited 2 billion, dear friends, short-term loans that were taken for liquid liquidity. You all know what short-term loans are, what interest on short-term loans are and who takes short-term loans to cover liquid liquidity. I think that, so far, a billion and a half have been returned, by the end of next year, two billion short-term loans will be returned with what it gives. Secondly, with all these big investments, with all this major restructuring, we got more workers than we had in 2000. I read this before, so in 2000, there were 21 thousand 655 workers, and 2003. 21 thousand 740 workers, and at the same time, 250 million kunas were spent on severances. ... I agree, I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, out of all the great modernizations, we've got tilt trains. It's still a question of whether that investment was good or not, but I say even if it isn't. At least after 26 years, something new came in. We've got investments in the Lika railway that are at least suspicious. And we got something, well done, a collective contract. That's an honor. So that's what we found in 2003. And that's a fact. And I'm talking again and I'm going back to that 0.60 lip. The plan was very good, Your Honor, Mr. Trazic. It was a 15 billion-dollar plan in five years. But if the plan was made, but at the same time the realization was nothing because the realization was, the realization was, the plan was in 2003. Look, 3 billion and 746 million, and the realisation of a billion and 200. So it was well planned, but it was badly realized. But it was badly realized. While the plan, while the realization last year was 81.8% or a billion 835 million kunas, etc., etc. When we talk about security, I agree that safety is something that is a priority in every traffic and so is in HH. But my people, if we're looking at the number of extraordinary events, he's also, say, in 2000 there were a thousand 977 such events. 2001. 2 thousand 90 events. In 2002, a thousand 761, 2003. 2 thousand 355, and in 2004, a thousand 992, or in the first 9 months of this year, a thousand 762. It's a lot, but it's still less than it used to be. Besides, I don't know, Reverend Linic, I don't know, I didn't get the VAT question. Look, the price of gas was somewhere, you said 40 limes that based on VAT, it went up. The price of gasoline was about six or three kunas in late 2003, I'm talking about unleaded gasoline. Since yesterday, the day before yesterday is 6.77, so that's about 40 lips over. If that's what the VAT is going to do, that means the VAT could have been 7 or 8 lip at maximum, but not 40. So I may not have understood you, but if we count VAT in contrast, it's 7.8 lip, not 40 lipes like you said, or I also didn't understand this tax thing, of 37%. I didn't realize what, but maybe we'll talk about it later. So, we're not and I'm not going to repeat, I don't think there's any need to repeat, we haven't decided on that measure of 0,60 kuna, you say 0,30, the law says 0,60 kuna per litre for the reason I said before, but we replaced it from our own tax revenues and even more absolute amounts than we would get from the price of gasoline. I know, you're going to say that, and I'm that, I'm not that, when I talked about it before I was saying that the subsidies were investments, I said both in 2003 that they were billions and 308 million kuna and 2004. 2 billion 683 and 2005 respectively. 2 billion and 814 million kuna. I didn't mistake anything, but this one I read, so I'm not hiding anything here. Here, thanks for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46179	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46180	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Minister's allegations that the structure of a company in a company has increased the number of employees. The structure of companies in the Croatian Railways separates companies looking for their market outside the Croatian Railways and these companies working outside the Croatian Railways do not burden the money earned on the transport of goods and passengers, and that is the policy implemented in all European railways. Fired people is a crime that cannot be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46181	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46182	The minister says the government inherited 2 billion short-term loans, but did not inherit the current-business railway obligations. Today, if you do not use short-term loans, use more expensive funds, because the railway does not pay its obligations to its suppliers, thus causing a problem for suppliers, but at the same time it will have to pay the tighter interest that is more expensive, and I am surprised that the Lika railway is suspicious. Does this mean that there should be a union railway that passes through another country, and that connecting the north and south of our Croatia should be one suspicious investment. It's a little weird from the minister of traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46183	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46184	The respected minister says the number of employees has been increased although the funds for severances have been spent, but the esteemed minister is miscounting. The number of employees in the company's mother business with those employees in isolated societies cannot be summed up, as these isolated societies began a single independent life, their administrations were responsible for business policy, for employment and watch out for two such companies that were scheduled for privatisation in 2005 made three times the income in non-HZ business in 2004. With HH, it remained the same form of business. They're operating on the outside market. Well, it's natural that they hired them when they tripled traffic outside HZ, so they normally hired someone, but they can't raise pears and apples, they can't raise employees in the mother business with employees in the companies that got separated, and when we talk about employees in the queen there were 19 thousand and 600 of them, and at the end of 2004. 15 grand and 200.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46185	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46186	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like to correct your claim regarding higher investment in 2004. I'm going back to this 230 million. As counterpart Stazic said, it is about collecting pears and apples. In fact, and this is about the sum of different things, we have one thing, if we look at excise duties in 2003, let's say based on a billion and 400 and a subsidy of 430 million, that makes a total asset based on a billion and 830 million. When we read your report, it says that in 2004, you gave for the development and modernisation of the railway 1.4 billion kuna. So the difference is 230 million less, not 230 million more. I mean, it's pretty clear to me what you've done, it just doesn't seem right to give this kind of data in materials, because eventually it's very visible here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46187	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46188	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected gentlemen from the railroad. Today we've already heard the beginning... The song "Beige Jankec", but I think it's important to hear the sequel that says "run the Jankac Chug you bu escaped, let my card escape in my pocket, I boom see the white Zagreb city." For what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a lot of symbolism in this song. Interpilation tells us that it's high time we jumped into the last train car, that the development in the railway was stopped, and that we will not achieve the goals that we agreed on just two years ago. However, the response from the government says in relation to the interpretation through the report "so let the train escape, the map is in our pockets", it doesn't matter, whenever we see the white Zagreb city. Is that so, I'm not too sure. I'm sure that this train will leave us, and whoever is under the government's programme is supposed to be involved in new development has such a locomotive where there's no more than certainly no money at all. What should be pointed out is that the government made a good decision, as a result of the price and disturbance in the price of oil products on the world market should not increase excise duties and further burden the price of gasoline. However, it was a temporary delay. Within the year that delay was due, nothing happened. Not only has it not tried to change such a situation and find new sources, but it is not even considering whether it is possible to find a source that does not have a budget foothold. This is why the Government deserves criticism after a year, because Croatian development is still based, and this is what the economic profession is talking about, and that is what economic indicators on imports are telling us and it is based on personal consumption, and right here in the development programme of Croatian Railways it is about the possibility to engage the domestic industry as well, and also to engage the local smarts as well. However, in response to the minister's interpretation, we have not heard whether a simulation was made in relation to investment and financial efficiency. I didn't see it anywhere in the materials, and I would be interested in what it means to invest in development to increase profits in Croatian railways and which means possibly less donations from the Croatian budget for Croatian railways. We have already mentioned today that Europe has brought a white paper on transport, where the right focus is placed on the railway and not only because of the need and energy, but also because of the good attitude of the railway towards the environment. We also paid special attention to the railways, we brought a strategy in 2003 in which we said we should also invest in infrastructure and equipment and also in personnel. Then we also concluded that HZ is not competitive in the environment and is also not competitive with the types of transportation in Croatia. This is not, of course, enough to compete with the ports in Croatia, both the sea and the river and the individual branches of the economy that depend on rail transport, such as agriculture and tourism and everything else. Apparently, at least that's what we heard on the board, there's an idea to develop a new transport strategy and of course a railroad would be found. I am asking the question here whether there is at all the willingness of the two governments who are behind each other to implement the same strategy, or whether politics and political decisions are more important than the strategy in Croatia. In 2003, we also passed a new Law on Railways and a business plan from 2003 to 2007, followed the government of the existing plan. Are we going to be among three regional leaders in 2007 as planned or are we going to be among the three regional outsiders in this area? I believe in the current pace that we will be in this second position. What is most important is to find an extra budget source and this long-term source of railway development. Of course there are various models. One of the models is a public private partnership we've never seen before. One of the models is the involvement in some additional taxes on cigarettes, on alcohol, on tycoon property, and the model for which I would take up is a dedicated part of the fuel tax that would go directly towards HZ because we heard today, mathematics say, how much more did VAT get due to the increase in energy prices. Of course, we can also think about the use of bio diesel for railways at a special price. We could actually think if production was introduced in Croatia, it would be a diesel. The railway is also important for regional development. I will say that for example of Slavonia, which we say that no cargo ships sail in Slavonia to Dravi and Dunavi because we do not have railways to service it. In Slavonia, planes with passengers and cargo do not land or take off because apparently there is no interest, and if a new strategy is done then it should certainly include in the strategy a project that would be called a train without a timetable but this time in the opposite direction, this time in the direction from Slavonia to other areas. Two-thirds of Croatian railways traffic in Zagreb, i.e. in the ring around Zagreb as regards the transport of goods and the transport of passengers. For example, according to the strategy adopted by the end of this year, the Vinkovci-Tovarnik Capital Remont was to be completed, the modernisation of the Beli Manastir-Osjek railway line towards Metković and Ploča and the project of reconstruction of the Osijek-Gaboš-Vinkovci railway. These are the projects that should have been completed by this year, so I would ask the minister for an indication if we were to invest equally or more as the former government in modernising the railway as many of these projects that were to be completed and built. In previous highways, the construction itself should say that there was an idea, there was an idea how to finance construction, how to round up the entire financial structure. Similarly, the dynamics of construction work were created. And it was respected. Unlike these documents adopted in the Parliament called the Law on Railways, they are called a strategy that is not respected. So I ask the minister why we have one approach to the highways and why we have a different approach to the railroad. And how, for example, I can get in the development strategy the priority of building a bridge on Peljesac, which is not in its priorities compared to the railway that we all agreed on here in parliament. Here it also stems from the reasoning that it is stereotyped already for everything the former government is guilty of and the present is actually overly satisfied with its engagement and with the dynamics which means that it does not need for railways or new funds or new solutions. In the HSS, we believe that budget revenues cannot be an exclusive source of funding for development. The budget should be used for the standard of staff, for renewal and subsidisation, for the transport of cargo and passengers. Other sources should be used for development. We finally suggested some. That's the kind of solution we have in the documents of the former government, and it seems to me even to those before them. Let us try at least in what is called development to ensure continuity between the two governments in Croatia. I think it's about time we did it because this is a pragmatism thing, this isn't a matter of politics. This is a matter of development for which everyone should be busy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46189	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46190	So I would just like to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Pecek, who said that two-thirds of railway traffic takes place in Zagreb. That's not true. According to business data from 1 to 10.2005, for example in net tonnes Zagreb accounted for 29%, Koprivnica 17.4, Vinkovci 14.6, Varazdin 6%, Split 7.5, Rijeka 12.6, Pula 0.4, Ploče 4.7 and Osijek 7.6. Therefore, Zagreb accounted for one third of the traffic in net tones. In gross tones it is approximately the same where Zagreb is 30%, Koprivnica 16 and so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46191	Okay. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46192	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Ministry! In fact, this whole debate today is about how an efficient way to finance the rapid development of Croatian railways, i.e. how to ensure that the railways operate liquidly, that they are rehabilitated, that they deal with as little or no losses as possible. With this in mind here as an anecdote, I must mention the statement by the Italian Prime Minister, former Giulia Andreotti, twenty years ago that there are two basic types of lunatics. One is those who believe they're Napoleon and the other are the ones who believe the railroads can be so rehabilitated that they do business without loss. So it is clear that there are no railways in the world that do business completely without loss, and I would pray that we stop this illusion. All the railroads in the world are subsidized one way or another. All governments in the world do this simply because they are aware that in this way they are denying the state part of the tax, giving a discount on fuel or on electricity, etc. as it facilitates and accelerates the economic development of the country concerned. So there are no railways that are not subsidized. And now it's just a model of how it's done that the rest of the economy doesn't suffer from it, but that it gets very positive economic effects. It is difficult, of course, to compare Croatia with another country, enough for a man to take a ride with Japanese... who drives 300 an hour to make it clear to you what kind of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] could be, or how the railway works when it is well arranged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm the meaning of existence... It was in fact that the Japanese railways that were deep in losses, in which on the route from Osaka to Tokyo, as from Dubrovnik to Zagreb traveled for 10 hours, so nothing faster than with us, led to the state that communication between these two cities was at 2.5 hours, while at the same time a tremendously large job for local companies at maintenance and modernization of high-speed railways anyway, for the whole spectrum of manufacturers who produced everything from glass on such a train to specially designed contacts for electricity, brakes, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, modernization of the railroad gives unmistakably high jobs to domestic companies, and that's what we need to keep in mind. So we don't care if the HH is going to be financed from 60 limes per litre of fuel or financed from the budget, but we don't know that in fact the previous 9 months of 2004 it didn't work. It mentions rebalancing here, and the fact is that only in the rebalancing was it known to the 876 million kuna in 2004. And the fact is equally that the railways were to be found somewhere around a billion and 80 million kunas that year, according to the plan of these 0.60 lips. Now we can discuss which model is better, which breaks the state budget less, but the fact is that we lost nine precious months. This government is from power to power. 1. In 2006, when the liberalisation of rail transport began, it was available for 24 months. A third of that time, so we lost nine months. Thinking about whether it's a good model of $0.60 or a budget, anyway, it's been 9 months, and now in general panic we have to catch up on that time because of the 1st. Next year, liberalisation begins, panic modernisation continues, and soon we will be privatised to our HZ, which means that we will be one of the few countries that these three processes have been carrying out in the package. Speaking of these unfortunate 60 limes per litre is really unclear why the financing of the highways from the fuel is acceptable and is not a blow to the standard of the citizens and the financing of the railways from the fuel is unacceptable and hitting the standard of the citizens? Or why do Croatian railways pay road charges in the price of fuel they spend? Which roads do our locomotives drive? Or why are they paying VAT for it all together? And that's a thing that's really not clear! Why does Croatia have the fuel structure it has? So, to have the basic price of the INE at which the fee on the roads, at which the excise duty is to be dropped, all of which is to be paid by VAT. So, with such a fuel structure, it is really hypocritical to talk about whether 60 limes per litre could have been a blow to the standard of citizens. In order to be able to talk about it, let's, first change the way, calculate the fuel price, hit the VAT at the basic price and remove the VAT from these road charges and from the excise fees, and then we'll be as clear as any of them really is a blow to the standard of citizens. In the meantime, the residual price of fuel and so much has shrugged up, and the big question is how much would the effects really be if these 60 lipes were introduced but at the same time changed the way the fuel prices were calculated with a far more inventive way and a fairer way of calculating VAT. What is equally worrying is the fact that the Law on Railways has been adopted, that this Law has been amended, that a funding programme for local railways has been adopted in the Assembly and that a business plan has been adopted for 2003 and the period from 2003 to 2007. Now, it is worth both for these plans and for all other strategies adopted by the Croatian Parliament. We can only function in two ways, to say that these documents are all good, and that the government adheres to them and that the Parliament is following her in whether she adheres to it, or to say that these documents are bad, to say why they are bad, to change them, to bring new ones, and then to adhere to those new ones. But you'll forgive me, we can't function in a way that someone is quite arbitrary in saying that something in this program doesn't like it, so he won't stick to it. So, if the Ministry thinks that this business plan for the period 2003 to 2007 is bad, then we need to make a new one, give it to the Parliament, we will accept it, if it's good of course, and then the Ministry will stick to it. So that's how it's supposed to work. Then they'd know exactly what this is all about and this kind of debate really shouldn't. I agree with my predecessors who say that from this form of interpretation, it's not really clear to them whether or not it might have been a wish to have a debate at all. But the fact that in 2000, just to insist on the HSP Club, the Parliament adopted a conclusion that it also obliged the Government and the HH to deliver a report to the Croatian Parliament on the modernisation of HZ but that we did not see this report until today. And if it hadn't been for this interpretation, the question is whether we would have gotten this kind of response from the Croatian government to how things actually stand by investing in the modernisation of HZ. So I can't believe that the Croatian Government and the Croatian Railways Administration doesn't feel it necessary to report this House of Highs on how things are, what budget money is being spent on and where all this is actually going. And don't forget, whatever happens with HH it will again define the Croatian state through the budget, more precisely our taxpayers, but we who are the controllers of spending budget money, and business firms such as HH need to know it in time and get a report on it, not under the coercion of such interpretations, but by ourselves. Furthermore, it is crystal clear that HH is important for Croatia. It is, of course, about ports, it is about corridors, it is about the fact that if we do not modernize HZ and we have a month and a half left until the start of liberalisation that we are actually in front of a historical disaster, which is that HZ is not modernized not to vote for a concession to travel on major corridors towards important Croatian ports. So that in that case, in fact, some foreign operator will dictate not only the pace of development of HZ but also the pace of development of the Croatian economy, i.e. the pace of development of Croatian ports. Not once, I suggested on behalf of HSP that the Greek model be applied in Croatia and that the HZ be given up to 25% of the shares in the Adriatic ports which are at the end of major transport corridors if we will also manage to increase the chances of HZ to vote for concessions on these transport corridors. It is of strategic importance for Croatia to continue driving HZ on these corridors and on Croatian territory as well as on neighbouring countries. I really don't see any reason why a good modernised HZ would not drive within the borders of Hungary and within the borders of BiH on those same corridors that are headed towards the port of Rijeka and the port of Ploca. Of course, if it is modernized and it is transparently done then it can compete for those corridors. The fact is equally that neither this interpretation nor the government's answer gives absolutely no information on how the local railway is going to address the issue. It's a tie. It has not been settled in a satisfactory way in the law since 2003, and since then it has not actually been touched. It is not only about the Zagreb area, of course, but about all of northwestern Croatia. About the entire eastern Croatia, therefore, not only about the surroundings of Osijek and Vinkovac and even of course about the surroundings of our great coastal cities. Who's going to keep those tracks, what local self-government, from what taxes, how are they going to co-finance it all together? So local self-government. Is it just the maintenance of the station or the maintenance of the underpass? Whose trains are going to drive there? Will a public private partnership be used for, and what public private partnership when we do not have a law on it? So there remains a whole series of open questions, but here we are not actually talking about today. Lastly, I think it is our Club's view that we should firstly work to include corridors on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in European funding projects because this automatically raises the development chances of our ports. In this regard, too, it should be possible for the Ostari-Split railway to become part of one of the pan-European corridors. The urgent modernisation of transport facilities is of paramount importance. So the locomotives and the wagons, hoping that the underpass so the railway station itself will be able to finance from the European funds, but we must have our operator driving on those same tracks. It is also most urgent to adopt the Law on Public-private Partnership so that we can clearly distinguish the rights of the operator on local railways and, if necessary, bring a state contract with the Croatian Railways where we would clearly and transparently assess the roles and attitude of the Croatian state towards the company. Also define a way to privatise Adriatic ports again with the goal of holding HZ elections for concessions in these traffic routes. And lastly, we would support this whole of your Interpellation, gentlemen of the Proposers. Our only questionable point is 3 in terms of these 60 limes. It would be completely acceptable to us only if the fuel price was changed. So until what I've already said at the very beginning that VAT is not charged on road charges or on this fee because then that price shock would not actually feel so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46193	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46194	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What does the Railways mean for the European Union might be best to take a look at the White Paper on Transport and then we will see what is happening in recent years in the European Union's policy? They concluded that if traffic is observed in 50 years there is a historical imbalance in favour of road traffic. This was the reason why the European Council in Gothenburg called on its members to promote the balance of transport through investment in infrastructure aimed at the Railways, inland waterways and seaports. Railway transport is literally a strategic sector in the European Union that depends on the success of these efforts to shift the balance of transport. What is also in the European Union documents is the fact that the Railway is still a means of transport with great potential after driving the first train, and that the operation and renewal of the Railway is the key to fasting the distribution among modes of transport. In order to create a single European rail system, they set targets by 2020 with the aim of increasing the market share of Railways in passenger transport to 10% and freight transport to 15%. And as my colleague Jurcic mentioned, tripled labour productivity by 50%, increasing energy efficiency. By 50% it reduces harmful emissions and, of course, increases infrastructure capacity so that these effects can be achieved. Conclusion: A real cultural revolution is needed to make rail transport competitive again and to remain one of the leading in Europe's transport system. It's Europe's view, it's the railway tomorrow in Europe. How does the Croatian Government approach the Railways and what measures has it taken in two years? In 2004, a decision on the postponement of the railway modernisation project was taken. She also amended the Law on Railways and abolished the means of modernising railways. And also gave up the only existing railway development plan in 2003, 2007. Well then, based on these three moves in 2004 we can assess what the situation is in the investments and modernisation of Croatian railways. Unlike the funds from the budget, I will stick to very recognizable physical data. The average investment by 2003 was around 40km annually in the modernisation of the railways, the possibility of modernisation. In 2003, modernized 150 kilometers. In 2004 as an extension of only 40 kilometers. This year's projection is 30 kilometers of track. It is about a sign that it has given up and has very recognizably left the modernisation of Croatian railways. When we talk about new contracts if we're going to talk about rail vehicles invested in two car restaurants and zero passenger cars. It's a new deal in the last two years. And what was very alarming and probably prompted us to this interpretation in nine months 2005 is an extremely unfavourable trend of safety on the railways with a series of incidents, and what the government in its report is trying to deny and compare the incidents that are, I would say which times and consequences of working and modernization, it equates them with accidents on the way. And, of course, in nine months of conflicts culminating in the relationship between the unions and the administrations who throw an ugly picture at the state of the railways, for which responsibility is borne by the railways administration. And, of course, in two years, a very effective one resignation from the political shift of administration in early 2004 and, of course, now at the end of 2005, new shifts resulting from the completely unsuccessful management of a very complex system of Croatian railways. Thus, the finding, within two years, can assess the government's work, was developed in the battle to adapt to the European market lost two years for the Croatian government, lost two years for Croatian railways. Why did we propose this interpretation as representatives of the SDP? We do not agree with the government policy of the Republic of Croatia which gave up development policy, especially the modernisation of Croatian railways. We have a different approach and we appreciate that the development and the Railways can boost the development rate, consolidation in the Croatian economy and address some of our problems in the distribution of the state budget. We also assessed that transport is important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and it is very important for the transit of goods and passengers, especially when we talk about the importance of sea and river ports. And also when we talk about Railways and passenger transport, we talk about an even stronger tourist economic branch. And that is why we are assessing how powerful the economic impact of the Railways on other branches of the economy is. Of course, we estimate that the railway is also important for the development of the Croatian economy and that is within the branches of the construction activity, but of course the machinery building such as "Djuro Đaković", "Gredelj", electricity industry such as "Cončar", railway workshop "Cakovec", etc. And, of course, we estimated that in 2003, however, the trend of modernization began, showing physical data. We estimate that neither the funds were provided in 2003 for the needs of the Croatian railway and, I would say, complete projects for the modernisation of the Croatian railway. But in 2004 and 2005, even less resources were provided, and this is the reason why we can estimate that there is uncertainty on the Croatian railways for employees, that for the citizens of Croatia there is always a question of quality and safety of transport, and what is particularly negative is the business risks of all economic operators operating with the Railway because of the uncertainty of the collection and, I would say, the quality of the realisation of business contracts. What is the goal that we want to achieve with this interpretation that we have signed as representatives of the SDP? First of all, the replacement of incompetent and incompetent administrations that the government has already done after the delivery of impelation. I believe in the pleasure of many. And now we understand that those who have lost two years have been removed, but we must also assess that they have been removed because they had no plan, nor have they realised the plan of investment and modernisation established by the decisions of this Parliament. Our goal was to focus the Government on development and care policy on a very important transport system, all in order to modernise the railways, the Croatian Railways, and especially regarding the restructuring process of the Croatian Railways in order to be competitive with European competitors for a few years. What is disappointing for those of us who have signed this interpretation are the answers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that deny decisions of the Croatian Parliament regarding modernisation, related to business plans in 2003-2007, but also of the Croatian Government which does not want to fight politically, which is trying to compromise the work of one and the other government. And we accept. It is not enough for Croatian railways and in 2003 we do not want to compare at all. But if we're talking about the necessary means to further modernise in 2004, there's nothing secured in 2005, nothing. Because it's not investing in railways or infrastructure, or in a machinery park or a rolling stock. That's what we want to say very clearly. The needs for funds are enormous. We don't need any competition, we don't need any comparison of the former and current government. We're trying to say how important the economic system is, how little has been invested in all these years that he's just so consolidated, he's been pulled out of difficulties and that he should continue and there's no follow-up. And that is why the response of the Croatian government in the part of carrying facts as a cause for political quarrels is we do not want to comment, nor do we need to comment because it was not our goal to submit this interpretation. And of course, what's our goal? To open a discussion of the means of purpose. We're assessing the modernisation of the railroad. If we are to say that we really need a revolution in the development and modernisation of the Croatian Railways, we must have special resources. That we were right when we said that that fuel price shows time. 60 lipa total, 30 lipa based on savings in the budget to be made, 30 lipa increases in prices. These were policies discussed in this House. This Parliament was discussing them. Could 30 limes have been tolerated? The answer is yes. Because then the price of 5 and 80 kuna for a liter of gasoline, today it's past 8, and the citizens are paying for it. Only VAT, meaning not INA, with its rise due to the price of oil on the world market, only VAT. So this government has increased 40 lips in this period. So the government had the will to take 40 lips to spend without putting an account in the budget, without putting it into development. That's what the government had. But she didn't have 30 lips for the railroad. And that's why we think, just these two years they've confirmed that they weren't misjudged. Why does the government not think it's necessary? It doesn't matter. It's the politics of this government. Do they need means? They do. If that's not the price of fuel, let the government say which one it is. It's our topic we want to open. And we accept suggestions that today at 8 kuna the price would not be so easy. Yeah, it can be reduced to VAT, it can be for what it's grown up to go to the railways. Let that message be that, let's go into modernization, that's what the government's program is because there's no other solution. Therefore, there is no money for modernisation without it, no modernisation of the railway. Of course, we care very much about the social policy in the railroad. What the government document says in response to this interpretation, which believes it was a crime to single out companies, organise them and train them to earn on the market their money that will not burden the tariffs on rail transport and that it is something that is unacceptable and that workers should be fired and the government is proud to fire 600 workers this year, for SDPs unacceptable. This is a sign of unhappiness and increativeness, because we have the idea that workers who no longer need to be in railway transport, who do not need to be burdened with the railway tariff should be trained and organised to work in other areas that are clearly present. And since I'm running out of time, then all I have to say is that I believe that we did it in one part when we're talking about the government's behaviour around human resources policy. Unfortunately, I believe that we have only triggered their conscience, but we have not motivated them enough, and therefore we believe that further debate over the Croatian Railways will have some more effects in the future to change the behaviour of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46195	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Slavko Linic, our representative said "the change in HZ leadership in 2004 was a political shift". That's not true. The HZ leadership in 2004 was replaced because, with the help of Racan's Government, it entrusted Croatian railways to run liquidity in 2002, 600 million, and in 2003. 400 and 500 million kuna. A total of one and a half billion that the current government had to pay and pay back in 2004. And when we talk about the political shift, it happened after 3 January 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46197	Thank you. Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46198	Well, I won't say it again. I already said it was a welcome debate and we agree on that. I think it is good that we make arguments and that everything in order to further develop the Croatian Railways. But I have to intervene, because here I have this year-by-year remont track. Dear Mr. Representative Slavko Linic said that in 2003 it was modernised, remounted 45km of railways, which is correct. So until 2003, exactly 45.6 kilometers of track was modernized in 2002. However, it has also been said that 150km of rail has been modernised in 2003, but I have here a report that says that only 19.3km of railways have been remounted and that Knin-Kosovo, Malovan-Zrmanja and Ličko Lesče Kolodvor. And in 2004, it's not exactly an accurate fact that it's 40 kilometers up-to-date, but it's 14 kilometers up-to-date. ... I have that information, I can't keep it quiet. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here, well, well... So when we talk... Of course it's nobody and nobody's talking about firing workers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said that in terms of rationalising the business with which all partners in HZ agree that, and in agreement with the World Bank, 600 workers from the Croatian Railways will leave this year, but it is not a dismissal, it is a contractual breakup, voluntary with severance fees. After all, it was done in the past term. I said before that was spent in the last term almost I said 250, but even more, 270-280 million kuna. So it's something normal that needs to happen. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46199	Thank you. We're done... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46200	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry to take this opportunity, but the minister made me do it. It's always a question of whether we want to talk about financial or physical data. 150 kilometers is what was done during 2003 when we speak physically. Of course, when we talk about payments, then it can be 2004, but let it remain for whoever it pleases, the truth that he prefers. But what's the fact? The moment the decision was made, when it started, the reconstructions began, from 40 to 150, and it was all one thing for me, in 2004 if it was already the minister that wanted to talk about finance, not physical labor. But after that it falls back to 40, and this year you'll see... That's what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear it.]] It's signs that we've abandoned modernization. That's what's wrong. One more thing I'm hardly going to be able to accept so easily. He speaks and in his presentation he said a suspicious figure line. Imagine the minister talking about a suspicious figure line, and the other variant is the Uni railway. I wouldn't say how many times the Unc railway walks between Bosnia and Croatia. I won't even say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina you have two railway companies. Two railways, one Federation, and the other unless I'm wrong about Serbian... That's right, Republika Srpska. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I won't talk. And what a burden it is for our Croatian state. At the same time Minister Calmeta says we will not go through Neum but build a bridge on Peljesac. Why this inequality of transportation. The road will not pass through Neum, not through other people's territory, railways which are not only railways, but is the activity, the activity of our Croatian railways, if they can. Or vice versa, I wouldn't want to think that the minister thinks that the railway is not needed for the south of Croatia and Dalmatia, I wouldn't want that. Because I believe that both Split and Sibenik ports have something to do not only for the Croatian economy but also for the transit business of the countries around Croatia. Is it possible that we in the Croatian Parliament are now going to argue with the Uncle or the Lika railway? I think these are the things this Parliament has concluded. This is what we have planned, the development plan and the modernisation of the Croatian Railways in 2003-2007. It's defined by the decisions of this House. If by chance the Government thinks otherwise, it would be okay to bring and propose to this Croatian Parliament a change in the investment strategy in the Croatian Railways, as this right has no minister, this right is not even the president of the Croatian Railways Administration, that is what is defined by the decisions of this Croatian Parliament. And, of course, if we are really asking the question of investment, the biggest investment should have happened on the track, then it is no wonder that we stopped investing in Croatian railways. But what's a tragedy is that we will certainly have problems investing in infrastructure and fighting for corridors, but what is certain that Croatian railways as a commercial society have lost the battle for competition. And that Croatian railways as a commercial society will not be able to drive through international corridors and corridors that will represent the rail infrastructure of modern Europe. He won't be able to drive. Not with cars and locomotives over 30 years old because it's fate that will be in 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46201	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Calmeta. I'm sorry, correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Matušić, and then you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Linic incorrectly said he would not go through Neum and that that is why the bridge is being built. That's incorrect, that's completely false. Because it's a clearly planned highway route that will cross the back of Neum. The corridor behind Neum will pass, therefore, and will move further towards Dubrovnik. It just doesn't have anything to do with the truth. The bridge is built for other reasons, for the development of Peljesac, for the development of the island, not for passing Neum. So, the highway continues towards Dubrovnik and this corridor of Neum's hinterland. Therefore, do not be false.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46203	Thank you. Minister Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46204	Okay, I'm trying to talk to arguments. Mr. Representative, you've moved a little bit into the sphere of politics. But here, first of all, I wasn't talking, I was talking about miles when I was talking about how much of the railroad was remounted, so I was talking about miles. And I said in 2002, it was 17,631 kilometers. In 2003 not like you said 150 kilometers, but 19.31 kilometers. And in 2004, not like you said 40 kilometers, but 114 kilometers. That's one thing. Another thing, again about VAT. I don't know, I said it before. If the price has increased from 6.3 to 7 and is now, it has increased, therefore, to some 40 lipes or how much, if VAT cannot be higher than 7.8 lip. So I really don't understand where these 40 of yours came from. But that's okay. But the last one. I didn't say it was a suspicious figure track, but I said it was a suspicious investment in the line. And she's suspicious and there'd be work and some other organs and she'd have, I hope. Because I never talked at all about comparing the line and the faces. For us it is a track, it has no alternative, that it should be made in that corridor, speeded up, that there should be another tunnel through the chapel, that it should be made, leveled that rail. It absolutely stands, but I said it was suspicious in terms of preparing an investment which ultimately resulted in a billion kuna supplies, etc., etc. So, I'm asking that I be wrong, so he doesn't try to get me on thin ice, that I said something I didn't say. It's not about whether or not she's a railroad, it's about a suspicious investment in my opinion in that railroad. And finally, what was said and what Mr. Representative said is not the subject, but the bridge is being built, but the highway is being built. Thus, through Neum still to Dubrovnik. Therefore, there is no point in replacing one another. And what I agree with you, Mr. Representative, is little in 2003, it's little in 2004, it's little in 2005, it was little in 2002. I agree that here with you, therefore, this matter of investment and modernisation in kilometers that there have been little all these years and that we have to make it more. I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46205	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, what's the impelation to do? In 2003, a plan for the development and modernisation of Croatian railways was adopted and we are now wondering where the plan was adopted. Was it brought before Charlie, was it brought in in a private conversation, where it was brought in? Here in the Parliament. It was brought by the Croatian Parliament through the law. Is the government following that law and plan? He's not holding on. So we ask ourselves, "How can a government not abide by Parliament's decisions, a law that is valid, and that the law has not changed, or has not proposed to amend it?" That's the reason for the interpretation. One inadmissible behaviour of the government, one inconclusive relationship with the decisions of the legislative body. Look, I think it's completely irrelevant here to discuss whether it's 104 kilometers of rail or 75 in 2002, and in 2003, I don't know 50 or 60, very important. But let's ask these railroads upstairs if they're even worse. And tell our citizens that it has continued, tell them openly. Minister Calmeta, tell them openly. If investment had continued as it had started then this year, a car would have been in Split for 4 and a half, 5 hours. It's a six-and-a-half drive, and before the remont, it was nine o'clock. That's what citizens are interested in. When will they get to Split faster, safer, more comfortable? Now, is this government, the new question that is now being asked here, and now it's been breaking the spear for three hours. Has this government stopped or stopped the development of railways? Some say it is, some say it isn't. Now let's see what's true. Let's see the numbers first. As I said in one correction, the figures show that it was necessary to invest, a 15 billion investment was planned, and it will not be invested. From 2003 to 2007, 15 billion were planned and will not be invested. They're going to invest significantly less. Now, let's just take 2005. It took 6.6 billion, and it's going to be 2.8. And now the government claims it's nothing less. That 2.8 is not less than 6.6. Well, that's not clear to me how 2.2 isn't less than 6.6. Well, say nice, it's smaller. It's smaller because it's smaller. And let's not pretend that we invest more and claim that we invest more when it's not true. Now the minister says, well, that's the plan. It's very convenient that it's a plan, but that plan hasn't been realized. But Ministers, you're saying that for 2003, but there's a difference between what was done naturally, really investment from financial means from the moment of payment of what was made. In 2003 something was done, it was natural. It was made according to plan, not being spent in 2003 all the planned funds for 2003. Well, because it was later paid for what was done in 2003. Let's tell the truth. Let's tell the truth, and not now talking is not spent money, so it's not even done. It's not true, it's done. Okay, but let's not talk numbers. The numbers are tiring even though they're inexorable. Let's take a look at this government response. What the government is saying here in this response to our interpretation. The government says there is no real reduction in the number of employees but they have increased something else, what the minister has already said, and I have corrected in his quote. Let's not really rush things that don't go together. One part of the workers went away, he was taken care of in isolated companies and they work there better, better quality, earning profits three times bigger than when they were in the HZ. So let's face it, what happened? The parts that are not the basic activity, e.g. hospitality. The catering makes three times as much on the outside market as it does for HZ. So let's say it's good or it's not good. So now it doesn't matter if it's isolated during the former government, this government, but let's just say it's good. So let's not attack what's good, and let's not write in the government's opinion that something's wrong, and we all know it's good, and you know it's good, and let's not put those workers who went there together as if they belong to HH's parent company. They don't belong, they're singled out, they're doing a new job. They only do part-time business with HH and you see it as a rule in the same volume, but unfortunately not with the same financial result, because it's extended due to them. They've been waiting a year for the poor to get their money, so the question now is how in 2005, what's their bill going to look like? Why? Not because he won't be able to charge for this on the outside market, but he won't be able to charge HZ from his former parent company. Then you say passenger trains, says the government is increasing the number of passengers in its response to this interpretation, but ministers, so we all know it's the result of earlier activities. In 2000, all the modernized trains were delivered, and you see in 2005 only two passenger carriages were further agreed. Well, let's say, there's been a good increase in traffic, so we're all happy to increase, so God forbid it's increased twice as much, but let's not now say that this is now the great effort of this current government made, it's because trains are modernised before that and that the purchase of modernised trains, new trains, and then the second year would have even more passengers. Well, that's so logical. Then you say cargo traffic. You see, in 2004 and by the month of September of this year no new freight wagon was contracted, and the speed of freight trains was reduced, and the cause of this poor condition is the poor state of infrastructure, there is a reduction of the permitted speeds, there are not many locomotives and now freight traffic will not achieve the results that it could, and you see that we all know that these railways in the environment, Austria, Slovenia are getting more system and electrical locomotives and they will draw trains, ministers and on our tracks, unfortunately and on ours. Instead of these freight trains pulling our locomotives, they will be drawn by Austrian or Slovenian. They want ministers, as concessions will be called in 2008. Yeah, it won't be in 2008 but we'll be able to postpone until 2009, or I don't know which one, but it's going to have to be put on international competition and who's going to drive? Whoever meets the requirements, who meets European standards, and these do not necessarily have to be Croatian railways. So what are we gonna do? We'll keep the tracks, you know how to fix those thresholds, change tracks, and the others will make money. We will have spring workers who will go with these lamps there as in the Middle Ages and pound with that hammer on the wheels of the wagon, and others will take the money on the transport of passengers and on the transport of goods. Well, let's not let that happen. Well, Ministers don't matter this government, then the government. Croatian railways are both governments and these governments, they are the railways of this country and they are a provision for the future. It is not a small matter, the Law on Croatian Railways is not an irrelevant law. Well, we can't argue about whether 60 limes from a liter of gasoline was smart, stupid, if that was the only source of funding at the time. So why didn't you support him? As you can see, that's what Linic said, so when the gas was collected for other reasons people are still driving, they're driving. He's picked up a little more than 60 limes, driving around, buying gas. They would buy it, but would also single out for Croatian railways, and today, tomorrow, 2007, 2008 and Croatia's railways would not only be the pride of the state, but would bring profits. This way, if we're late, we're too late forever. It won't get there if we start running that marathon in a year or two, we won't make it, we won't be able to run that field. So respect the ministers of the purpose of this interpretation to encourage governments, return to the path that has begun, continue as soon as possible. It's not just in your interest as a government, it's not in our interest as a SDP to prove you wrong, it's in the interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46207	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46208	I am correcting the quote of fellow Stazic in the section in which he said that today's obligations to suppliers are much higher and payment deadlines are longer. This is simply not true, because when it comes to obligations towards suppliers, they range from 584 million kuna on 31.12.2000, 534 million kuna on 31.12.2003, and 31.8.2005, the obligations to suppliers amount to 460 million kuna, so they are less. The average settlement day for suppliers is also 460 million kuna, so they are smaller. The average settlement day for suppliers also ranged from 210 days in 2000 to 111 days in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46209	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations from my fellow Stazic about employment and the number of HH workers. It's obvious that they're totally dealing with a number of things, that there's a reduction in the number of workers by about 6 thousand and there's about 14 thousand 900 of them somewhere, which is simply incorrect, because companies are new daughters who picked up the rest of those 6 thousand workers. It's actually spilling from hollow to blank, out of one pocket into another pocket, because these societies are independently founded and funded from the railroad, they get a job from them, and they don't get a job on the market, they're mostly funded by the railroad, so that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46211	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir. ... You always at the last minute, since I read it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable Representative. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46212	I believe that in its explanation the Croatian government has caused these inappropriate comments regarding the process of restructuring and the process of singleing out 6,000 employees from the Croatian Railways. It is really difficult to understand that one process of restructuring in which you can even get unions that accept that their job from the Croatian Railways will always be paid by the village to independent societies that will depend mostly on a clean market game. The hospitality tomorrow, and it doesn't have to be in relation to the railroad. Only temporarily during this transitional period. Tomorrow they have to fight for their market. And you see, I often compare trade unions and employees of Croatian railways who have calmly accepted that they must contribute to the restructuring of Croatian railways if they want money for modernisation. And that's why often the parole was restructuring yes but with modernization. 6,000 workers of the Croatian Railways have accepted the risk that their future and their salaries will depend on the market rather than the safety of the Croatian Railways. I often compare them to you know who? With HT. HT workers here at Mark's square protested when restructuring followed and when some of them were separated from the queen and fundamental business and had to turn to the market. Those workers said no, we want HT's safety. Yeah, that's the difference between railways and railway workers and HT workers because they had high wages, they had a profitable company and they don't want the risk of market business. And we are now trying to say and downplay the contribution of employees on the Croatian railways in the process of the battle for restructuring modernization, to belittled. It's spilling from hollow to empty. Guys, let's not send such messages from the Parliament, let's not. The government was wrong to touch it. The restructuring process is something that is very complex and complicated and to have the consent of trade unions and workers on it, to carry out this process without any incidents and we are now demeaning it. Yeah, that's a message. You were supposed to be here as HT workers at Mark's square. Then everyone would yell, "No need to be restructured, no need to be restructured." The price of rail transport should also be charged with workers who can find their jobs on the free market. Are those messages from this House? I believe not. So let's not fight politically. We appreciate what they've done because I think that the procedure that we've never praised enough is precisely this procedure of employees. And if you heard the messages of workers and trade unions from the Croatian Railways who said that, all of them, even part of them signed collective agreements and were not satisfied just to send us a message "we have made our own and we want you to be responsible for securing the funds for modernization because without modernization we will all fall together". That's the message. And that's why it's not pouring and spilling from the hollow into the void. It really isn't. Let's not do this because it's not a contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46213	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46214	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Minister of State! I really think it is absolutely unnecessary that we here now make sure whether or not the development of the Croatian Railways has been stopped. I think that every day the colleagues working on the railway, the railways, testify daily by numerous Croatian citizens, to be witnessed by daily numerous Croatian businessmen. The SDP's intensity when he proposed the interpretation was to finally wake up, and why, for example, is not a conclusion as asked by counterpart Tadic, but even such a strong initiative as an impelation, so to show how important it is to us, how much we really think in the SDP that the debate on the railway is, that the development of the railway is important and important for the citizens of Croatia. It was not important for us in the final or whether it would be removed or not, whether or not the minister would be removed, but rather the railway would finally be launched because the railway really except for what was after the inert or in the process of stopping and the train still has a slightly longer stopping path than some other processes it was continued. And after that, de facto we no longer have that continuation of this development, which was drawn up by the documents of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and the Administration of the Croatian Railways. In particular, what does it look like? Do you care or not? The remont track was built on corridor 5B to the railway station Križevci. And now on the Zagreb-Križevci section, until you enter the train station at 140 and from the entrance to the railway station Križevci to the state border Botovo you drive maximum 80 with the large part of that stock driving 40. According to the plan adopted in 2006 and the following year, the remont of the track to Botov was to be completed, which means it should have been completed at least this year by Koprivnica. At the same time, in 2007, the second railway line was to be built on Dugo Selo-Vrbovec and on the other hand because the railway did not end in Zagreb as some today talked about how it was being invested in the railway line, tilt trains, in this, in that Croatia does not end in Zagreb. Croatia also has this continental part between Sava and Drava. Thus, on the other hand, this railway was headed towards Karlovac and in 2007, a second track line to Karlovac was to be made. What do we have today? We today have that, practically by my judgment, the most important infrastructure project in Croatia should be this corridor 5B because today it has reached maximum, peak traffic, maximum use because for example in 2001 829 thousand net tonnes were transported, 2002. 810, 2003. 952, 2004 was billions, something above that this year. And here I am talking to a number of colleagues from the railroad these days. They say there's been a maximum, that no more cars can be translated because there's no more remonting, no railway leaks, no speeds are reduced, the possibility of loads are reduced. We cannot transport passengers or goods, nor can we achieve what we aim to develop the port of Rijeka because mostly this traffic, this burden that went from Central and Eastern Europe, is what is probably important to us to travel the longest route through Croatia and then to build it all up in the port of Rijeka. So, we have now come to the fact that this year's high traffic has been achieved, the following because there were no remonts and there was no increased investment maintenance will probably be a volume of traffic going down for safety, because of all these other things and we had the opportunity to see what happened on this second stake this summer, so from Duga Resa to Rijeka where a freight train that had just carried wheat from Hungary had to land on the boat jumped out of the rails. So, if we don't urgently move forward on this investment cycle, into a remounted railroad on one side and on the other, building another track we're just going to get into a situation that we're going to start driving less burdens on that stock. It also means that the port of Rijeka will work less. But that means that there will be a number of others who are connected to that direction. And I would really like to say that we here in the Parliament say that after the 5B highway, the most important infrastructure project in Croatia, it means that not only will we develop numerous railway jobs, but it will bring the port of Rijeka back to life and that indeed Croatian railways will earn the most because the largest length of the road is 328 km and 700 m of railways throughout Croatia. Furthermore, no one can convince me that he couldn't realize the project... transportation in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've been talking about Spachva for years. The spa could've been over. The spa's only starting to work these days. But to jump from Spachvi in that one direction, so Spachva should go towards Austria, that is, towards Germany, and now there's no problem with the permits through Austria. We held a meeting in Koprivnica early this year because we have the infrastructure to build one, one train to drive Koprivnica Padova. We've made a whole series of meetings, but it all stands. Someone from the Ministry should go to the province of Veneto and down in the province of Veneto agree, allegedly already down they said they would give the subsidized fare through Italy and the wagons were standing. Gentlemen, 48 wagons for... The car is finished in Čakovec, some of it now drives is rented on the route of Budapest Sežana and about 25 cars are currently standing, not used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can use them immediately tomorrow and allow the railway to have bigger, bigger traffic on one side and on the other side to increase the safety of road traffic because we will obviously take these 20 or 22 trucks off the road daily, not drive bad Croatian roads and reduce pollution around. Unfortunately here is the whole, whole set of papers, I will deliver it personally to the minister after my debate to do something about it, here local self-government has done everything it could, now it just needs to do the timetable and set up a line on the route, so Koprivnica Padova, that is, now the idea to be the relationship between Zagreb Padova. Furthermore, no one can say that we don't care about development, because we are still without the possibility of washing cars continue to be environmentally unacceptable cars washed in a barn on Botovo, right next to the Drava River, although the car wash in Slavonski Brod was due to be completed in 2004. Nothing about that happened. So does anyone think that we're going to enter Europe in a way to wash cars in, on the Drava River, which is the largest water tank currently in Europe? And we don't have to use the budget items. For three years now, the budget has led 10 million to build on one side of the car wash in Brod and on the other side to resuscitate the barn on Botovo. That's all the questions that need to be raised urgently, and that's why we went with this interpretation. There is therefore a possibility of increasing traffic in action, to solve some problems. On the other hand, it is really necessary to reach an agreement whether it is 0.30, 0.60 lira from the price of gasoline, whether these are some other sources of income. But here if we don't invest we'll get to the point where we'll have to stay out of this job because we'll start avoiding the burden as it seems today, ever since the transition is open... traffic at the border crossing, i.e. in Čakovec and Varazdin, fell 40%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Freight traffic. Because trains are turned from Croatia to Slovenia and to the port of Kopar where, by the way, Slovenian state railways subsidise freight transport, transport through Slovenia I end up, through Slovenia, if the cargo is landing in Luci Kopar. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46215	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46216	Mr. Vice President, even though the Minister is not currently in the Chamber here, I will say this, neither our citizens nor those employed in HZ are interested in this dispute over what the government has done, they are currently interested in what this government is doing, which is done by this minister of traffic that has been in office for two years. And I will try to continue to say why the rapid development of the Croatian Railways is important and why it was important to realise the investment plan that was adopted for the period 2003 to 2007. Croatia was already preparing for the European Union, Croatia is today a candidate for the European Union, a member of the European Union and Croatia has started its negotiations on joining the European Union. And what does the European Union do? The European Union is creating a single European rail system by 2020. In this regard, the document was signed by the international railway union, the European Railways Community, the international public transport union, the European rail industry union, interested railway shareholders and they agreed on several objectives to be achieved by 2020. And they say that it is necessary to increase the market share of railways in the transport of passengers from 6% to 10% and in freight transport from 8% to even 15%. In order to triple rail labour productivity, increase energy efficiency by 50%, reduce harmful emissions by 50%, increase infrastructure capacity in order to be proportionate to traffic targets. They continue to say that rail transport should ensure its competitiveness by 2008 that the entire European international freight network should be fully open. So, in 2008, we have a liberalisation waiting for us in rail transport. What it means for Croatian railways, there is not much to be had in mind, nor much to meditate on. It is known that only 20% of the value of maintenance of this same infrastructure can be covered from the rental of infrastructure, so if we do not have a domestic operator who will be able to use this European rail infrastructure that we will need 80% of the tax revenue, from the state budget to finance the maintenance of the railway. That they are aware and employees of HZ, it is visible from this letter of unions addressing us individually to representatives and asking us not to forget that the European Union pays full attention to building a quality transport network within the Union. So we have one full agreement, employees of the union, and then we should also have the full consent of politics, government, administration, and us here in the Parliament. By joining the European Union, we must respect all the directives, currently there are around 11, some of them are still in the draft, but while we become members of the European Union they will be mandatory. How are we preparing for this? So here until 2000 we didn't have a business plan, an annual plan, or a midterm. A plan for the period 2001 to 2005 was then adopted. This should be pointed out, the position the management had and proposed in this programme was contrary to the World Bank's recommendations at the time. It should be remembered that the IMF was also against road construction at the time. It is important for the IMF and the World Bank even now that Croatia will pay back its commitments and it does not matter how it develops its economic activities. Since the government adopted such a plan and actively engaged in financing the necessary short-term measures from the restructuring and modernisation project, this resulted in some positive developments in Croatia's railways, and was then accepted by the World Bank. If she had accepted it, it was visible that she was willing to support these projects in credit. Based on such processes, the development programme continued and the 2003-2007 Development Programme was adopted. It stemmed from the fact that the state actively involved itself in the way in which the Law on Railways provided a permanent and secure source of financing for the infrastructure. So one model was created in which 0,60 kuna needed to finance development, and from the budget and through subsidies this public interest in the transport of passengers. This made the state an active participant in the community restructuring process, and then, as I said, the World Bank accepted. This programme was to be invested by 15.3 billion kuna by 2007. That's not crazy money. It's not spent money just for, to train the railroad. That money would fit some other economic operators. I'll say an example of a train car workshop from Chakovec. They are precisely on the basis of such a project, on the basis of a contract signed with this company hired by new 70 people, sent them for additional training because until then they had only remounted existing cars and they are fully ready for the construction of special vehicles that only a few companies in the world are doing. Instead of being proud of us, we stop a project like this. And what happened at the end of 2003 or by the change of government? And that's what's wrong. I am not going to get into this because you will all surely be replicating me: "Well you have replaced this, we are those, and tomorrow someone else will replace someone else." We must finally come to politics that in every place there must be competent people who know their jobs and who do not depend on the will of politics, political these or those political options. However, by changing the administration that developed such a programme and project and guaranteed it was actually rejected, rejected, and this project. She stopped, and all the procedures needed to secure these funds stopped. And she was rejected as an unrealistic adventurer and overpriced option. It really hurt me whether or not the minister said that you fixed it that it wasn't a suspicious railroad, it was a suspicious investment. It's not a suspicious investment. No investment that brings prosperity to any company in Croatia, any branch of activity can be suspicious. There may be some illegal shops, but they're known to be sanctioned. In other words, if we really continue to waste time, and we have lost two years here, we have lost this project that was to be completed in 2007, we will really come into a situation that may even enter the European Union in 2008, but we will only enter with rail infrastructure that may be trained to, in fact, traffic modern trains but we will not have Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46217	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Drazen Breglec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46218	I thank you gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Often, several thesis is repeated, and I would dare say that the presented thesis depends on the person who speaks and depending on the opportunity and purpose for which they are used subjectively or doublely. First of all, I think it is necessary to say, once resolutely and clearly, whether there are independent societies, whether they are independent, to which extent they are independent? Then, from this definition, it also draws from several examples whether the restructuring that has been carried out and what will be carried out in these independent societies is justified or not justified and whether the way it is managed is good or not. So the hour we're talking about isolating societies, daughters' societies, so 100%-owned companies of Croatian railways are independent. This is what we say when it is necessary to demonstrate how rationally they treated employees and how the number of employees was actually rationalized in the Matica Croatian Railways. When we talk about the fact that under quotes independent societies need prosperity then of course we are talking about investing more in Croatian railways so that they can give more to independent societies. Where's the truth? The truth is that societies that have been singled out in the theory are independent companies owned by Croatian Railways, but that they are if not 100%, and in one high percentage which may be directly below that figure still depended on their mother, on Croatian railways. This is also proven by the fact that the revenues they make are in some cases 100% and in some some slightly less from the direction of the Croatian Railways. So when we talk about their independence, then we have to be absolutely accurate. Because let's say the remont rail, the Agid company, the workshops, the maintenance of the tow cars, the maintenance of the wagon at 100% yield their incomes from Matica. A little less Gredell and a little less of some other society like here was a positive case of HZ catering. So what to do in order to surface those elements in the business of the Croatian Railways who are indeed also those who are blocking Croatian railways in their progress and that from such a complex system they will surface to the surface of a critical point that needs to be fixed and those places in which it is possible and justified to invest. These independent societies should be privatised. That's not the government's position. It was faith and intensity, the ultimate intensity and the previous government that started the separation, and of course the process should continue decisively, and only when jobs will not be negotiated at agreed prices in an agreed economy which we now have but when they will be obtained on the market will we be able to say that these societies are in their own, true and independent. This fact was important to shed light on because it resulted in one of the key points of the Government's response to the interpretation, which is the relationship to the Croatian Railways system as a whole when, with 300 million kunas for severance, 85 people were more than in 2005 when the means for agreed and voluntary severances therefore resulted in an agreement between 600 people less. Why is it important to shed light on that fact again? For a simple reason because the reduction in the number of employees in current incomes and in future revenues is a prerequisite for productivity growth, and the prerequisite for productivity growth is a prerequisite for the survival of the overall system. And that is why when today or tomorrow, next week we will have a meeting with international financial institutions that lend loans to restructuring the Croatian economy and, perhaps, sometimes deliberately talk about the fact that certain measures are being done under pressure from international financial institutions, then we must actually ask ourselves and admit that we are not doing it for either reason, that we are not doing it because it is someone's free will, but we are doing it because the whole system tomorrow in a liberalised market in a new environment in the European Union could survive. In this segment, investment and infrastructure are of course as important as investments in transport, both in passenger and freight. However, it is truly surprising to see the ease in which the data is presented, so at the time when it is said that they are secured, that defined projects are potentiated at the second point, the moment of their realization is potentiated. And I agree with those who say it's irrelevant or less important when a decision has been made, and when that decision has been made and when it has been paid. But it really remains a fact when we talk about kilometers of the railroad, starting in 2000, we can move on, but in 2000, 2000. 42 kilometers by technical examinations and by a precise mile, length per meter, I have here a list, 2001. Nine kilometers, 2002. 45 kilometers, 2003. 19 kilometers, 2004. One hundred and forty-four miles. No doubt one part was well prepared after the reconstruction of 2005. 73 kilometers. When we talk further about infrastructure and plans can only talk about the draft of these plans for the next period then also the figures, because it is impossible to speak differently than by citing the figures, I must say that in 2006, 117 kilometers, 2007 is planned. 80, 2008. 123 etc. all further numbers are over 100 kilometers of rail. These figures, however, say that the strategic and key difference that happened during the term of office of the last government is important, and in the realization of the term of office of this government continues. And when we talk about 26 years, at 26 years of the average age of infrastructure then it's impossible to bring it into line with the government's interpretation of two years of its mandate, we should actually interpolate all 26 divided by 4 is 8 and a half governments before, because they allowed such an old infrastructure, I apologize, about the fleet I was talking about. 26 years is the average age of the rolling stock, the infrastructure is unfortunately much more. It would, of course, be very good if the funds planned by the government, and it was a business plan of the Croatian Railways adopted by the government could also be singled out and spent. Today, at the moment of the Croatian Railways, to give them 5 billion kuna per year in investments, these funds cannot be spent in an efficient, regular and rational way. I can tell you this responsibly because it is simply a fact and therefore, in parallel with restructuring and with the possibility of absorbing these funds and the planned value of the funds in the coming years, as seen here in the case of infrastructure, and soon we will show it on the next five-year plan when the radio tow is planned properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46219	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer of Interpletion, Honored Representative Slavko Linić. Here you go. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, we'd be up till 7:00 tonight, and tomorrow we'll continue to discuss this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46220	Mr. President. I'm sorry to say that as proponents, we're going into controversy with the secretary of state and we're not going to pollomise numbers for miles because that's no use anymore. But it remains the basics. Today or any day will be two years from the election. I ask the question why are these two years of companies that have been created by the restructuring process not privatised? Because it was very easy to privatize them, because employees are interested in proving that they can also be owners, that they can successfully do business. It's been two years, gentlemen. Do we know what two years is? Yeah, there was time for Liburnia, not to talk about our privatisation problems. Why didn't it work out? Why? That's what we have to ask the management we've replaced. Right, 'cause that was their job. But the government won't call for the responsibility of the administration it has set up. Because they could have become completely independent and gone, fighting for the market. They could have. That's true. Why don't we talk about it? Are we going to keep proving ourselves in this House about the alphabet of business, the alphabets of business. The management didn't do it again. She didn't do it. And where are the board members? Two years. Do you know what two years is? Very much so. Formed societies, property they had, employees they had, contracts they had. They could have been privatized, they could have been independent. And why didn't they? Someone. It's not true, because you see it was supposed to form them first. First, the one from the hollow to empty spills 6 grand from the queen, gets the consent of employees and unions. Because it's from hollow to empty, it doesn't matter. Because it doesn't need their understanding. You need to force it. Right? Gentlemen, do you know what it means to separate 9 societies, try to find understanding that it cannot be at the price, tons of transportation or passengers and that they must fight for themselves. It's a process we demean. It's an irrelevant process. Why? Because the workers didn't cause any trouble. But two years in the privatisation process where the administration could prove nothing was done. It's been two years. Why don't we talk about it, and we'll find our responsibility in that part. Yeah, that's our problem. We keep staring at someone else's pot. But you see, we, as promoters, accept. It's all our fault, it's all our fault, everything. All the time, find the blame and find her. It's all the former government's fault. But gentlemen, invest your money, modernise the tracks. Because you see, I remember the situation very well when it was decided in three and a half years to build a road from Zagreb to Split. The civil servants' response was very similar. Slaps, impossible, unreal. It takes seven years. Yeah, that was the answer to the goal, very clearly. In three years, it's got to be over. Everyone said he couldn't. No, we're talking about people, not the opposition. We're talking about the clerks. I'm talking about the clerks. State officials, construction experts said they couldn't. So it turns out he can. Tonight we hear again, the railway cannot complete this process that the Croatian Parliament has brought, modernization in four years. We hear it again, the railroad can't do it, it can't do a system of 15,000 employees. He can't. Why? Because we might not be able to run it. Is that possible? It's unacceptable for us. It's possible, people can, they can, they're capable, we have that knowledge. That's the answer. Anyone who says time can't. The biggest problem remains if we have the courage to make a decision on special means. Special. Is it clear to my people that in four years 15 billion are to be spent, and we have suggested a source of only one billion and 400. Because these are the messages to the financiers, they're extra duties, the systems have to be in debt, they have to be spent 15 billion. We don't have them, but in the long run, we show that special funds have been allocated that will repay these loans, because loans will be returned to Europe for 20 years. It is common for railways for 40 years to return funds to invest in modernisation. It's a European standard. 40 years. But we must show that the railways will not depend on the will of this Parliament when the budget is determined, on the political will of some, because we will assess that in 2007, the welfare of the railway is a little more important than the railways, or that it is an important road to the River on the highway than the railway. Yeah, that's the problem with budgeting. And when the financiers see that this Parliament has told us about a four-year program that has to be realised worth 15 billion, we're going to have a permanent source and it's going to be a permanent source. Because it was the way the road-building sources were provided. That's why special funds are needed, special, dedicated. They don't have to be excise, it doesn't have to be 0.60, let the government say something else. Without these funds, we won't be able to get dedicated loans for 25 years. We won't. Because whoever guarantees that a change of policy in the Parliament's budget will not provide funds. Who guarantees it? And those are messages that are being sent. Yes, modernization, yes, special means yes, and once they are determined specifically, when financial obligations are created on the basis of them, no one will remove them so easily. These are the messages we think, these are messages with which we want to say how to financially secure the future and modernise the railroad. If we estimate that railways are needed and that is why we have cited a few quotes from the European Community's White Paper that say that it must be invested in railways, that it must be. But if we're going to keep talking about how untrue someone is, how double-faced, how contradictory he is, then we haven't got anything. We didn't. We simply agree that one strategic decision on the railway is made on who the score is, we do not want to lead such a policy with people who are therefore in charge of implementing the Croatian Parliament's policy and strategy. We believe that, railways yes, modernising railways yes, modernising railways yes, for now the only document, project at 15.2 billion and we think they need special funds. These are decisions that I believe we must evaluate, support or give up on. If there's no special means, no dedicated loans, no upgrade of the railroad. That's what we're warning you, and that's the fact we're afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46221	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46222	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think most of the SDP's representatives today emphasized why we went with this interpretation. We really wanted to warn ourselves about the problem in the Croatian railways of stopping development and simply the necessity of continuing to develop and invest in the modernisation of Croatian railways. It seems to me in general that we have a lot of development problems, I think it's already showing that in this economic area we have a very low rate of economic growth, so with 5.2% we fell to 3.5%. On the other hand, it should be said that also by, if it is to be tried by the announcements from Pliva, the first development centre and the only one in Croatia will close soon, so the one in Pliva as a pharmaceutical company. It seems to me that we are not exactly in the best relationship with development in this country, and it seems to me that without development there will be no progress in Croatia. Without investment in infrastructure development, new technology, knowledge, science, development centres, it is difficult for us to talk about the rapid accession of the European Union, because without it we will not be able to do everything we need to do to become a full member of the European Union, and what is much more important is that we will not be able to live much better in this country than we do today. Our problem is that we do not respect what the Croatian Parliament has adopted as a priority for this country, which is to modernise the Croatian Railways and definitely our priorities and our development will not be decided either by the World Bank or by the IMF. Here, a colleague of Zgrebec earlier said that the IMF and the World Bank were against building the Zagreb-Split highway, but we knew that it was our priority, that it was important for us and we fought for it and we did it. However, I regret that they are now in this government not having such determination to in some way fight for what is important to us and to make our goals and priorities very clear. Also, he didn't open this interpretation here in the Parliament today to talk about what the government did. The fact is that in 2000, the former coalition government found a very difficult situation on the Croatian railways. The fact is also told by the data, that it has made a move, but the problem is that it has not continued and that for 11 months this government has been working on Croatian railways to shift people to self-government but also much wider than the administration. Because of the fact that she was doing research on illegal activities, and today it is truly surprising that a minister who is here faced with arguments from the SDP side club reached for something that is not good when the minister of one government reaches for it and said that in HZ many authorities could be engaged in some investments, alluding therefore that it existed on, therefore in the work of HZ in the past period and in the criminal activities. If that's the case, Mr. Minister, you have all the organs in your hands. So you can send the police, jump, anyone to make an insight into HH. So if there are any crimes... This means that you, Mr. Minister, should, therefore, do a very serious job there and say if there are crimes that are then sanctioned and that those crimes are given the exact name and last name of who is guilty and who did something illegal. Unfortunately, today we came back for the delay of the Croatian Railways in 2000 because we again started with accidents in rail transport. So we've had two pretty big accidents that weren't fortunately human casualties, but there's been a lot of material damage and in any case the causes of such an accident have been identified because the condition of the railroad is in very poor condition. This means that investments in the modernisation of the railway are necessary. It should also be said that Mr. Breglec here said that if we gave HZ five billion kuna a year, they wouldn't know how to spend it or there wouldn't be any effects on HZ. So I don't know what that means, if that administration is incompetent, if people on HH don't know what to do, then that would actually be proof that you're confirming your incompetence. In the end, it should be said that when you were talking about the removal of 60 limes that were to be separated from gasoline, or oil sales, it would be much better if you said not that you had abolished it because it affects the standard of citizens than because you have some other model. That would be much fairer and much more correct than talking about how worried you are about the standard of citizens. On the other hand, there is no concern for our economy, and it should be said that in the event that the investments that existed were continued, so in the 2003-2007 plan, therefore in the amount of 15.3 billion kuna, a little more than 10 billion would have been planned for infrastructure projects, and that out of these 10 billion kunas, Croatia's companies that would be working on these projects, such as Hydoroelectrics, Viaduct, "Vybrobeton", with all their partners and co-operatives, could certainly be made available. But also "Gredelj", "Cončar", "Djuro Djakovic" with both domestic and foreign partners. Therefore, our economy is equally not taken into account when the development of railways is stopped. How will HH enter the European Union? Croatia will enter, but HZ will obviously be difficult to enter unless it continues to invest in development. Because it is very large in the European Union by 2020, therefore, changes in rail transport and it is difficult for Croatia to follow these investments. The question is why some other companies in the European Union care not only about modernising but even creating, therefore, special groups dealing with rail transport, and it is not important for Croatia to modernise and raise to a European level and become, therefore, competitive with its railway. Namely, the Swedish group "Ikea" currently has 18% of the goods transferred to the railways. The Ikea management wants to raise it to 40% by 2006. Due to these "Ike" plans, for example, it plans to publish an invitation to tender to railway companies for the transfer of goods between its branches at the lowest price and at best guarantees. Surely, then, "Ikea" will take advantage of the opportunity provided by opening the European market and becoming the main railway company. Therefore, things are moving forward quickly in Europe, and Croatia is unfortunately very slow to follow or very slow, so it follows these trends of the European Union. And in the end, I'd like to say something about the line, which is why the development and modernisation of the line is important. Primarily because we can achieve a better transport connection between Zagreb and Dalmatia, therefore, via Like. But also because the railway route passes almost half the area of special public concern. You've seen what the highway did for the areas. The good part, therefore, has revived these areas and passed, therefore, and modernization of the railway line can certainly provide further incentives for development. And in the end, if we hadn't lost for two years because you simply gave up one program brought by the former government, but also the previous assembly of the Parliament. After all, according to my information, you accepted this program. However, if it had continued as the previous government had started and planned, if modernisation and the pace of investment were continued in the railways, we would have driven on the train by Christmas this year, some say, in 4 hours and 15 minutes from Zagreb to Split. This way, unfortunately, we're still driving a lot slower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46223	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46224	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. If the aim of the promoter with such a bombic title is that the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to stop the development of the Croatian Railways, if it was intended to be on the headlines of the daily papers, then they probably succeeded. But everything else presented here is actually a series of lies that are not difficult to deny because there is no talk of any stopping the development of Croatian railways. On the contrary, the truth is quite different from what is being shown here. In fact, the past government has replaced the HZ administration headed by Mr. Shubat and appointed its head office with Mr. Drempetic. It's not a dispute because we've already discussed it several times. Everyone has a right to change if they think they need to put on the ability of people, but it kind of bothers me that everyone else has been changed in some other way, and now they've been changed as political, which is not true. The past government, apart from regular funds for the Croatian railways, granted short-term loans worth 600 million kuna in 2002, and put payment on the budget for 2006. Also in 2003, Croatian railways were also granted a 400m and 500m kuna loan, and payment was also burdened in 2004. That way I could finance a series of projects if we'd be in charge and it wouldn't be hard for me. Namely, the 3 loans passed by the government owed the 2004 budget. So, the current government for 1.5 billion kuna, which means that the last government did not provide real sources of financing for the Croatian Railways, has already made a debt that must be reconciled by this government and is still called to invest even though it is seen to invest more than the last government has invested, and it also has to settle the debts left for 2004. It should also be added that the past government has issued state guarantees for loans to HZ 5 billion 254 million kuna. From this point on, we can conclude that during the period 2000 to 2003, HZ acted as well as in the government at the time, which means that it was enormously in debt. The biggest tragedy is that it was in charge of liquid liquidity, and not for development, so I'm surprised that the same people who didn't know how to manage HZ were only in debt today have the courage to ask this question. Asking this question to the Croatian government which pays off their debts, their guarantees and even more of them invests in development, and does not raise loans for 2004 or 2005 for liquid liquidity. In 2003, the government invested a billion and 308 million in subsidies, while the government invested 2.7 billion in 2004 and in 2005. 2.8 billion. With this government being required for HZ for 2004 to allocate as much as 4.7 billion kuna to the previous government in 2004. In the period from 2000 to 2003, the so-called Tire trains without competition, which is illegal, and we knew we hadn't arranged the tracks that could be transported by the same trains. A special story is about the number of employees where, before and today, HZ is slightly higher than 20,000 employees, and it does not say that the past government has reduced the number of employees. Because it is evident that the rest of these workers have been transferred to independent companies or subsidiaries of the daughter which are mainly financed by the queen, so from HH. I really don't think there's any basis to insist on it because it's obvious that the conditions are different. By the end of 2003, a barrel of oil costs $35, today it's close to $60. Well, I guess it can't be this government's fault that the world's price of oil has come up so it's already expensive for people without these 60 limes. In particular, what this government has provided for HH is significantly higher funds, both for subsidies and for investments, and without these 60 lips through a regular budget. There is no dilemma that the development of railways is very important for Croatia as well as for the development of highways. The railway has always meant prosperity and progress, so I am sure that it will also be in the future, and it is in the government that on its current capabilities it speeds up the process as much as possible. Finally, I come as a representative from Brod-Posavina County who is very interested in modernising Croatian railways because of its citizens, but also because of Đura Djakovic. In 2004, Djuro Djakovic delivered 101 wagons, and in 2005, 162 wagons were delivered by the end of 2005 and the remaining 7 wagons were delivered. For all these cars, a total of 320 HZ paid 159 million kuna. From the above, it is clear that the modernisation has not stopped, because 320 cars have been produced in 2 years, but what is important is that while watching this delinquency, all these wagons have been paid neatly so far, and in the next few days Croatian Railways and Djuro Djakovic special vehicles will sign a contract on 300 new wagons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46225	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now. We'll be back at 9.30 tomorrow. The first in line is the honourable representative of Slaven Letica. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session and the debate on Interpellation. The word has a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46227	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State! I think it is very good that 24 SDP MPs have launched this interpretation, which is neither an interpretation of the question nor a challenge, nor a request from the Government to direct or file the resignation of the Secretary of State, or a minister or a god of the entire cabinet. However, the almost ideal time when this interpretation is submitted is ideal for several reasons. The first and most important thing is that historical and international legal circumstances have changed since the time of the creation of the railway development strategy in 2000. The start of negotiations with the European Union in a symbolic and literal sense opens the Croatian railways towards the northwest and west. On the other hand, obtaining the status of Turkey and Croatia's candidates simultaneously and the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement opens up the possibility of creating railway routes to the south-east and south. The possibility of development for Europe of inferior corridors, corridors 5B and 5C is even opened. As regards the other circumstances that seem very important to me, this debate is ahead of the debate on the state budget so that the results of this debate can also be included in the budget debate. As for me personally, I would like to participate in this debate for two important reasons, and both are in some way related to some nostalgic rhymes. I am a great lover of trains and railways and not literally, but of the civil and historical context and the role that the development of railways played in the integration of Croatian national beings and in the first round of Europeanization of our country. It should be recalled that the railways with mail, grantovnica, the development of legislation and Radecky march were the basic instruments of the architecture of this space and that in the 19th and 20th centuries, in the early 20th centuries, they played almost the same role that he played in our time, for example, the process of building highways and connecting northern and southern Croatia. Another reason is also sentimental nature, I know and I am the best friend personally with a series of railway families whose family history, myths and legends are related to railways and railways. As far as competence for this debate is concerned, she is of course limited, I am an absolute outsider. However, I have made a great effort to at least to some extent inform the outsider of the topic we are discussing. And now for the essence of things. The first impression I've come up with by carefully reading the folder and interpretation of the government's report is quite pessimistic. Neither the signatories of the interpretation nor the writers of the Government's reports provide us with a clear picture of the situation in the Croatian Railways and even a less clear and creative vision of the development of the railway system and its accompanying activities in future Croatian and European rail transport. The interpretation of SDP representatives and the government's report are equally superficial, biased and analytically limited securities that generally convince the public and us here in the assembly that they have done little and nothing to develop railways and that we have done many and terribly important things. Instead of essentially the problem of polemics between the interpretation and the government's report, it is about state protectionism's modality in the development of railways. The government, the coalition government headed by Ivica Racan, advocated the excise financing of railway development. The new government is in favour of the budgetary model of development. Mate Churchvenac and I will easily agree that in both cases it is a matter of state protectionism and each and every better informed public finance expert knows that the essence or scale of things cannot be discussed taking into account two equally conditioned models of state protectionism. As for logical or content logical comparative analysis by carefully reading two documents, two contradictions or two paradoxes occur. The first paradox of the Government in its last sentence of its report appeals to us MPs to reject the impelation of the government's work and not to say that the Supervisory Board in which only ministers are sitting, has four ministers, state secretary and several former state officials, but has listened to a key request of impelation which is to immediately approach the amendment of members of the Croatian Railway Administration in order to create conditions for stabilisation within the HZ system and the security of employees in Croatia's HZ and citizens. Another even bigger and more dangerous paradox, Mr. Secretary of State, has been focused, the government has agreed to change the Croatian Railways Administration, although in its final report, it claims that there is a visible progress in the development of the Croatian Railways during 2004 and 2005. The second paradox is a white human and career lesson in government policy. The leadership of public companies and institutions that make tangible progress in development can count on the government's shift. The second claim in the report is even more absurd and almost offensive to tax payers. It reads as follows: "The government has given up part of its already own income of €200 million in favour of modernising Croatian railways". It would be good to know what its own funds and own incomes were from the Croatian government which she gave up to help develop Croatian railways. The paradoxical shift of the Croatian Railways Administration, chaired by Dr Tomislav Mlinarić, which according to the Government's claim made significant progress in development was the reason for my appropriate research into the fate of earlier Croatian railways' leaderships in the independent Croatian state. If you do such an analysis, you conclude that 13 administrations have been replaced in 15 years or that the mandate of the average administration lasted one year, one month and 24 days. The duration of pasta, meat breakfasts, fruit juices and American baby sitter is much longer than that deadline. Therefore, the Croatian Railways system should lead to an independent policy position in the way it was achieved for Croatian Radio Television. Instead of a one-year term, one month and 24 days should accept the logic of the six-year mandate of French and Belgian railways and should correct a whole series of other paradoxes. From a series of these paradoxes, I'm just going to conclude Mr. President with my story of tilt trains. It is a story that is very moving and shows that you must not do business in Croatian railways. Last year with Providence Tonci Tadic, about a year ago I traveled from Split to Zagreb because there was a lot of storm in Trogir and we couldn't fly and we got on slope trains. We found a young train driver from Vinkovci who told us that we were very lucky not to travel on a classic train and not on a lean train. Because slope trains are good for regional driving for up to two hours, and then there are severe nausea and sea sickness. The purchase of tilt trains shows what dilentantism is in the management of Croatian railways. 30 % of market prices were paid at that time. Second. Before buying, no tests were made on the resistance of these trains, on the wind, on huge temperature differences, trains were obtained that no colossals were tested, trains were obtained that cause severe nausea and the Croatian public did not know about it. Tonci Tadic was unpleasantly surprised because he lobbyed for the trains himself. Therefore, trains were purchased with no kuna value produced in Croatia, etc. Therefore, if we are discussing Croatian railways today, let us not end up in finding scapegoats in the administration, I assure you that Mr Tomislav Mlinarić is an absolutely capable young man, and that it is a shame for the government of Ivo Sanader to solve such people and not just one, but I know of 10 cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46228	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46229	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to touch the numbers much in my debate because we tend to interpret the same figures differently but I'm going to go back to the historical context and remind myself when Stevenson started the first railroad in the early 19th century after he previously ran a test at the hardware store in Wales, and thus took away the load of carriages were comments that if he never in life had a chicken trampled that... kill people with your railroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This almost 200 years after these historic events, the Croatian government is giving up, or at least slowing down the programme of modernisation of Croatian railways, hitting the Croatian economy, bringing Croatian ports to an irreparably unfavourable position in international competition for the acceptance of cargo and slowing regional development. The debate on the interpretation of both the parent board on maritime, transport and connections has already been discussed... This debate at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament confirms the justification for the reference of interpretation in the parliamentary procedure, which seems to have agreed in many ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Interpletion points to human resources problems within the HZ system, suggests an unprofessional administration set up by the current government, and hopefully selecting new competent people who will be able to run complex HZ systems, and we'll just see. Interpletion points to the necessity of modernising the system without which modernization has no effective restructuring and in these three fundamental objectives it seems that we are mostly consensual, what we disagree on is a way to achieve these objectives. The coalition government has offered a clear development concept, it proposed solutions to ensure investment in the HZ system within three years, of course in its total of 15 billion kuna. She suggested a way in which it is possible for Croatia to put HZ and Croatia in a situation that, for example, Zagreb-Split does not travel 7.5 hours, but about 4.5 hours. The coalition government was aware that the concept could not be achieved exclusively through intervention from the budget, it proposed funding elections. The current government does not accept this moidel. Okay. I'm asking what you're offering. Slowing and delaying the implementation of the project is not a solution. So what the current government is offering is a key question. How they intend to secure 15 billion kuna investment in the system that was the Ivica Racan government's plan for the period 2003 to 2007 and which is also the plan for adoption in this assembly. By which Croatian railways would improve their competitiveness, competitive capacity in relation to other modes of transport. The former government had a clear problem, which could be achieved during a five-year period. In the project, one of the key investment procedures was the modernisation of a railway without an alternative. The Uni direction is not a solution, I guess we finally understand that today, the Uni railway is going to another country and the area of two entities for Croatia is totally unacceptable. So, our destiny is the character line. The current government says it takes seven years for the track, and I remind you, we've lost 11 months just to analyze the project. That it is possible to achieve this sooner if there is political will and then to find the modality, it has also been proven in the realization of the roadway Zagreb-Split where many were also skeptical. When we suggested an increase in the price of gasoline by 30 lipa with that explanation that was given here yesterday, the price of gasoline was 5.6 lipa. The Croatian government then protected the standard of citizens and asked what the Croatian government is doing today to protect citizens' standards when the price of gasoline reached and crossed 8 kuna. I ask further what is the fate of Croatian sea and river ports? There is no development of port activities, no new inflow of cargo in Croatian ports without railways. By definition the ports are places of sea and land routes, places of integrated transport, there are no new burdens if rail routes,... and logically are not adapted to new technological achievements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian ports, for example slabs, Split, Sibenik, Zadar, Rijeka, and about Pula I will say something special, are without perspective for taking over and shipping cargo from or into a Central European swimming pool, without a quality railroad and we must be clear about that. Since I come from Istria, let me say a few words about the stripes in Istria. The need to build a railway in Istria was generated at the time of the development of various industrial activities such as shipbuilding, construction, construction industry, engineering, electricity industry and in the time of strong military interests of Austria. In 1876, it was opened for the transport of railways... - Pula 122 kilometers, with a branch... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Twenty-one miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The construction of new railways in Istria was not until 1951 when the Lupoglav-Stali railway was built for the primary transport of the then strategic energy of Raško Ugljen. The Istrian railways were thoroughly restored in the mid-80s by opening a terminal in Vršica. Significant changes in the role of the Istrian railways occur in the early 1990s when they take over in the Croatian part of Istria to the Croatian railways but are practically cut off from Croatian railways. Building a tunnel through Učka is inevitable. In 1993, the Croatian president unfortunately laid a cornerstone for pre-election purposes for building a railway tunnel through Učka. Unfortunately, we can't even find that location today because it's grown up in a chicaru. The coalition government has defined the European railway corridor Trieste-Rijek, which has entered the European railways map and which through the tunnel solves the issue of connection between Istria and other parts of Croatia. If the data is correct, and the railway in Istria participates in total rail transport in Croatia with zero, only 0.4%, then we see what is the situation? By slowing down the coalition government project, I wonder when this project for Istria will take place? One good day, maybe not then. Then how can the economy in Istria be competitive? He'd do a little dyspression here, and he'd risk the president reminding me. No matter how many people agree with me these days, the Ministry is offering a road-to-road reduction programme from 15% to 27% that I welcome, however, there is no mention of the "Istria Ipilon" again, and I think it is necessary to think about it because the reactions of the Istrian County or the Istrian County Assembly and the public from Istria will be fierce. When it comes to the social component in the Croatian Railways system, the government in 2000 found 19,000 employees in the company's mother. Average salary is 25% lower than the average of the economy in Croatia. There was no dialogue with the unions, and she left 15 thousand 200 employees in the company's queen. The government's programme to provide extra employees in the Croatian Railways has established social dialogue. The relationship between the employer and the workers was arranged for the first time after the draft Croatian Railways by collective agreement. Average salary of the employees of the Railways at the level of the average salary in the economy of the Republic of Croatia and social peace. So the coalition government has proposed solutions to the key problems of the Railways programme that has been adopted in this House. What's the point of impeling? Only if the programme is not good, if there is and better we ask the current government to offer a better programme or to continue to realise the one drawn up by the coalition government and to seek a concrete response to this interpretation by which the current government means to run Croatian railways so that they no longer drive in reverse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46230	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46231	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little bit of looking at these materials, the strategy that's listed there at 8 points, set out in the 2000 Parliament. It obliges the Government to reduce the number of employees to 3 out of 8 points in the context of modernisation and the adoption of legislation. So that's what it says together. More than 300 million kunas are spent on stimulating equipment. A number of employees transferred to... Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result at the end of 2003 is 85 workers more than 4 years ago. It's really interesting. The law was passed only at the end of the term of office in 2003, and almost all investments planned for the next term of office. The attached interpretation material is typical pre-election material not used before the 2003 elections and the words prevail: immediately approach, secure, commit, create and the like. But it's convenient to use it for an alibi for a lost four-year term. What the former government hasn't missed is the odd acquisition of tilt trains. First, without competition, we were not allowed by ordinary mortals in municipalities or cities. This is about huge money, direct contract. Secondly, the interesting purchases went all the way from the overseas producer but through the middleman, and the mediation we know how much it costs. And third, trains full of drawbacks. We hear they won't even be able to go to the European Union later, and just before we heard about a number of other problems with them. On the other hand, the second and third points to the suspicion that all of the above has been deliberately ignored. Well, in my opinion, it's a very good-looking job for the BOOK because I don't think that's just the way it was, and someone didn't benefit from it. A company that, for example, rebuilds the railroad, has been hired by a company that imported even wooden thresholds from the outside, rails, screws, so, and stone. So she shut down the domestic industry which in the contract could be protected. But apparently no one cared about domestic producers at the time. The restoration was delayed because for a time it was even a preferred U.S. railway, until it finally concluded which railway we were going to repair last year. The development strategy is based on the financing from the price of a litre of derivatives therefore increased by 60 lipes, and what happened with oil clearly to lead to disturbances and the functioning of the economy. Those 60 limes would certainly be the weight that would weigh negatively. But we hear there's been enough money coming from the budget, much more than that, so I think that argument's out. The needs of rail traffic must be high. The tracks were broken, and we forget it. Even hijacked and sets of trains, railways, but what was the worst was the loss of priorities, traffic by stopping the use of our ports because in fact the most railway was working with ports because that was the time. The goods were quickly found the second time, and another thing we forgot was the import and supply of a huge number of trucks. Finally, we had an example of Podravska highway where the continuous column was almost from Zagreb to Osijek. Huge trucks that actually simplify transportation because you get on board, you drop it from door to door. If we're talking about passengers, we shouldn't forget that the last few years have bought several hundred thousand cars. And along the highway, I'm sure many will use cars. Finally here we heard, I believe he's the only colleague from Osijek who's arrived on the railroad. I don't think any more of the MPs have used the railroad. I'm sure the highways also reduce the competitiveness of the Railways. So it's hard to get passengers. But what I think is important and urgent are transitions, crossings, signalling maintenance, because there is, in fact, the most important expression of all that, all the scarcity of the railroad. The railway is not profitable in the most developed countries, so maintenance of stimulation and development is mostly financed from the state budget. We're all aware of that and we all support it, but within the limits of opportunity. Unfortunately, the promoters did not convince me of their claims, and especially of the effects of the investment. For a number of reasons, I believe the future belongs to the railroad. Clearly, depending on the price of oil and road congestion, but especially the suburban railway. But it's hard to go back 50, 60 years ago when the railroad was dominant. Nostalgia and the future are always difficult to reconcile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46232	Thank you. Two replicas. First, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in the end, colleague Markovanovic said that the future of the Railways is yes, but that we cannot go back to the past. I'd like to warn you that the studies show how much cheaper railways are and how low they are, the decline in traffic in our ports is because they're not qualified or the railways on corridors 5B or 5C. But, but it's a fact and I have to tell you that the railroad can be profitable especially in passenger traffic, but it needs to be done and said these are priorities for us to get the railroads fit. In accordance with the Law on Railways, the following year, operators on our tracks will be able to be foreigners. Unfortunately, by lagging behind in the development of Railways, we will come to the fact that foreigners will be operators on Croatian railways, not ours. I understand Minister Kalmet and he is one of the few in this government who has made sense and who has influenced the purchase of new wagons or the reparation of old wagons, because, both passenger and freight cars, without them and without new tow capacities, there is no work on Croatian railways. And that's the point. The lagging behind in the development of Croatian railways is because it is under-invested in them. I can understand that's why he doesn't have enough money. However, what we will do in 1.1, because we, we have started negotiations to join the European Union. We will no longer be able to prevent foreigners from driving Croatian railways, and the only infrastructure is what will be owned by the Croatian state. Everything else is going to market, and how are we going to get foreign concessions? That's the thing. Therefore, the development of the Croatian Railways at this time brings a number of advantages, as currently due to the development of other branches of the economy, primarily the housing which otherwise lags in Croatia and on the other side of our port of this Adriatic port will get a significant revolving if we have railways that will have all the traffic. By the way, the possibility is that we have low-floor wagons for the transport of trucks that were to be made in Čakovec, which is precisely insufficient investment in Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46234	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46235	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't think my colleague listened to me very well. And the fact is, we need to do it the other way around. We need to train the ports. In wartime and wartime, the slave has changed course, I emphasized that. The Kopar port has been equipped, our ports have stagnated, fallen, the transport of goods has been reduced and because of it is important. So, you need to go either parallelly or before to arrange the ports, and getting trucks, getting cars and all the rest safely in some period you need, but not to that extent at this point because I don't believe in the quick resuscitation and return of the railroad. But why did I say we had a future? There's a future, and you didn't listen to it, because I said you're probably expecting a large collection of energy, fuel, and probably road congestion. And there's a chance, but at this point I doubt another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46236	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46237	You see fellow Markovanovic, as a mantra, you repeat one inaccuracy from the government's response to the number of employees who were explained here yesterday and which the minister seemed to have accepted as correct. I don't know if you were there last night to listen to it, if you followed that debate, and if you followed her, you understood her. Because look, it's not true that the number of employees has not been reduced. Nine companies were founded. The number of employees in 2000 was 19 thousand 600 and 2004. 15 grand and 200, that's minus 4 grand and 400 people weren't fired, you know, they didn't go to the street, they didn't lose their jobs. It is established, 9 companies that operate better than when they were under HZ or in the HZ system, which make profits three times higher on the external market, so these workers have today guaranteed jobs, have guaranteed salaries, have guaranteed development. That's all explained yesterday. And now you're rebelling against it and you're saying it's wrong. And what would be good? That all those people on the street were sent? Would that be good? The fact that these people were taken care of, that they were allowed to do today, that they have a future, that's what you fellow Markovanovic are attacking. And you're going into conflict, not just with what's here, not just with numbers, not just with facts, but with what the minister yesterday accepted as something that's a really good model for solving extra employees. I really don't understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46238	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46239	Here, I was here last minute last night. I guess we didn't listen to the same minister, you probably yours, and we didn't listen to our minister. In fact, I don't know how clear the concept of companies is to you, but here's an example of the City of Zagreb very quickly. There are companies, a number of companies in the City of Zagreb that do business with losses, the City of Zagreb covers losses. It's similar on the railroad. But I'm talking about a bad strategy. You wrote in 2000 that a significant number of employees should be reduced. He stayed, if it's clear with all these societies, it's the same number. Secondly, I think we should leave out... I care about the workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all care for the workers, and we're lucky if we can hire them somewhere. If we can, if they accept severance, with that I can open up some other business, but I don't think that goes away anymore. Employment, overemployment on, in some of ours, not only railways, but also many companies have just led to this situation that, in fact, if it starts to work profitablely, then it just shows the ratio between some product and the number of employees between services and the number of employees, which we are, then we are not looking towards Europe. Because Europe actually does it significantly differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46240	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46241	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, although I have already said several times behind this speaker what the restructuring process has been in view of and on the polemic tones which, at the very beginning of today's debate, I would like to say very clearly on the same subject that the process of restructuring in commercial societies, especially in non-market-oriented companies, means of reducing the number of employees in monopoly activities. In activities burdening the cost of transport, which is partly subsidized in the state budget. All employees who are singled out from the basic activity will no longer directly burden the cost of importing to companies tomorrow with the privatisation process. Therefore, it is no longer the one that will be burdened with 6,000 imported companies. The passenger is no longer the one to be loaded with 6,000 employees. It's a process called restructuring, it's the separation of employees from basic activity. Spitting on a process that means 6 thousand workers tomorrow do not have a safe future but they must themselves vote on the market where the Railway is only one of their committees, and the rest must be those who will come and give opportunities for those 6 thousand employees, if they are more competitive than other participants in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. A process worth paying attention to, worth attention to because he went through the railway without social unrest, without social unrest, with the consent of the employees and with the consent of the union. And the numerous unions we have in the Croatian railway. Six thousand workers don't have a guarantee of their salaries in the state budget tomorrow. Why haven't we privatized these isolated societies in the last two years? We haven't heard the answer in the written material of the government. We haven't heard from the minister himself. In fact, we heard a joke about the process. That's sad. It is unfortunate that the whole world is talking about a restructuring that has long gone by since the restructuring process never ends. But in Croatia, we demean these processes. That's not good. And that is why something very important, the message of workers in the Croatian Railways was, we are aware that we must make a contribution to the process of modernising the Croatian Railways, and they gave it. It was given to joint efforts in the formation of independent societies, in the separation of employees in independent societies. And now it is Croatia's turn to provide the necessary means, I would say allocated funds for the accelerated modernisation process if we want the Croatian railway to compete in freight transport and that it can compete in passenger transport. And it's obvious that as promoters, we're going to keep going after this speaker over and over again about this process. Because he is neither banal nor unserious as we easily know how to speak on behalf of a political dispute on behalf of a political dispute. The restructuring process has also been very difficult where maintenance workers have been separated from the process of oil production and processing, and it is also now that they will seek their future on the free market with the possibility of working for the INA. HT employees have passed, and these are all processes that we have jointly done in an attempt to restructure the public sector, to restructure energy, transport, some monopoly activities. But we are trying to constantly banish individual processes in Croatia, and we want to say that we are part of Europe. With this approach, I'd say solving the economic problems outside of us, and we don't want to admit them. Why? Maybe because we don't know them. Then we need to hear very often about this topic in the Croatian Parliament in order to become aware of certain processes. And that is why the workers have done their job, the question remains whether we in the Croatian Parliament will do our part of the work, which is to provide the necessary means to speed up the modernisation of railways. I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46242	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46243	Mr. President, colleague Linic, no one, listens to yesterday's debate from the beginning until now. No one spits on the process, on your process, no one demeans your process, but points to the weaknesses of your process. And your weakness is your process, one of the weaknesses is in the year 2002 of the Croatian Railways was granted a short-term loan of 600 million kuna. The repayment of credit to the burden of the budget came in 2004. In 2003, a short-term loan amounting to $400m and 500m was granted, the payment of credit to the burden of the budget came in 2004. If I were to take out a million-dollar loan now, then it could be paid back by my Matts, Lucia and Jelena, they're my grandkids. It's just one thing that your process was weak and not good. And if Einstein came to this assembly now, he wouldn't be able to show you what you've been pointing to the Croatian public since yesterday that you're doing well, and it's not good. It's easy to put in charge of the next generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46244	Thank you. State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46245	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, a number of sentences and claims that need to be explained or provided for further information in order for the Croatian public to get the right picture and the right state of things. First of all, the honourable Mr. Parliament representative Letica spoke of certain paradoxes and asked a direct question about the reasons for the shifts in... He cited the fact that one part cited progress in the Croatian railways in the current and last year, and on the other hand that the administration had changed after all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no paradox. Progress confirms the figures, it is shown in an increased number of non-tony kilometres driven by the Croatian railway, it is shown in better results, in objective indicators of the figures confirm it. However, for the moment in which the Croatian railways were located, this progress was not enough. Progress was, but not as required by this moment and not at a sufficient level for Croatian railways to eventually be equal to the upcoming competition in transport, i.e. be able to translate as many goods as they will require from all others, and the market for the transport of goods. So we couldn't be satisfied with the progress that was set up. So the paradox isn't when we say it was progress, that's it. That's what the numbers confirm. When we say he wasn't enough it's a fact because we have more goals. On the other hand, at this point, there was no way of escalating social unrest, escalating misunderstandings between social partners, as such a possible scenario would lead to one blockade of the system and all that minimal progress, the trends made in business would be destroyed. Simply, this could not be allowed, so it came to this unpopular, but at this moment given the only possible solution. I share concerns about maybe and what hasty purchases, both tilt trains, and maybe another one in the past. But here, for comfort, I can also tell the same parliamentary representative that new tow vehicles that have been purchased for six months are being tested, tested for both temperatures and loads and on the specificities of our rail network. You'll agree, it doesn't matter if we're talking about wagons, whether the wagon travels with Hungarian railways and straight tracks, or whether it travels on a route from Rijeka Airport via Gorski Kotar and beyond where there are marked loads and ups and where some unexpected things can happen, as they unfortunately have already happened. Then, it was also said by a respected Parliament official, Korenika, that since 1.1.2006, the Croatian railways will be led by a party. The Law on Railways provides and will enter into force in 1.1.2006, however, it is preceded by another Law on the separation of Croatian Railways, and there is also a clause in the transitional and final provisions of the existing Law on Railways, which says that until the full entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, foreign operators can only drive on local railways. Since the cost of transport on local railways except for large urban and suburban units is not great, and in that part there is good coverage and with the transport of Croatian railways it is estimated that there will be no competition on the corridor lines. For the simple reason that competition cannot be according to our law. It was also wrong to say by the same parliamentary representative that the ports had a fall in traffic due to the railways. It's completely wrong. Compare all the numbers, and I've got them, I won't bother you. We talked a lot about numbers yesterday. All figures on the realised traffic in the ports, both the port of Rijeka and the port of Ploče, as well as the other 4 so-called national ports in the Republic of Croatia, but also in 4 river ports, especially in the port of Vukovar, record a particularly steep line of traffic growth in the last few years, which is logical in view of the interruption that has been caused by events in history in this area, but is also due to the management of these ports and port administrations, particularly those who care about infrastructure, but also the ports that manage well and which are successful in the supply of goods and the opening of new goods flows. And finally, I don't know which way we're going back to the same story whether societies are singled out, dependent, independent, whether it was an important or irrelevant process. Once again, I want to say it out loud, and it was a good thing, and it was an important process, no one slows it down, and nobody said it in this debate. However, you cannot disagree that it is much easier to start a company, to isolate a company, and to leave it in the system and leave it in the agreed economy. Leave it in the economy when the price for a single service is agreed. It is much easier than putting this company on the market and forming it so that it can survive with its own increased incomes on the market. So we're not saying it wasn't good, it was good, but it's much more important and much harder this process that's coming now, this process has begun. Why wasn't there privatisation in two years? Because these societies, except that they were formed as d.o.o. and therefore the subsidiaries of the daughter within the existing system, these companies were neither defined with their properties, nor even defined, in many of which they were not yet today, so they did not have all the attributes of an independent entity which could be referred to in one transparent privatisation process. Therefore, it has been a very difficult job for the past 2 years, and it takes even now and the decision made by the Croatian Government on privatisation, which says that this privatisation will also allow for the participation of workers, employees in privatisation, which speaks of the fact that the revenues from privatisation will be income and Croatian railways, therefore a very important fact, so this process will continue, it will get its final stage, the most difficult phase is ahead of us, and that not the roses in the isolated societies are booming and justified anxiety and anxiety from employees whether in the new... can be as successful as they are now when that's not the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you for your attention, for this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46246	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46247	I'm correcting the State Secretary's incorrect allegations that society is part of the agreed economy. The agreed economies theoretically mean the planning economy, so plans. The relationship between the Croatian railways and commercial companies was agreed and this is a contractual relationship, this contractual relationship is part of the market economy, not the agreed economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46248	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46249	Your Honor, Mr. President. In front of us is the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for stopping the development of Croatian railways, which was signed by 24 parliamentary representatives. I am pleased to say that this debate in the Croatian Parliament is open, and that all the doubts about the work of the Croatian Railways have finally been shed in the media for the past few months. One of the main proposals of the interpreter is the return of the legal provision on the allocation of EUR 0,60 from excise duties from the price of oil products to the Croatian Railways. It should be said that such a legal provision on the allocation of €0.60 per litre of sold petroleum products with the intention of financing railway infrastructure was designed to ensure continuity of financial sources, but without detailed consideration of the possible consequences of its application. Coming to the government's power, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to increase the funds for modernising Croatian railways to 876 million kuna, and the means to promote passenger and combined transport to 430 million kuna and maintain rail infrastructure and regulation of transport to billions and 37 million kuna or a total of 2 billion and 68 billion kuna, and in 2005 for the same purposes of 2.8 billion kuna. Therefore, from the introduction of a tax on gasoline of €0.60 per litre of Croatian railways would generate revenue of €1.4 billion, and a decision by the Government to the Croatian Railways was awarded 1.6 billion. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia achieved the following economic results. It has enabled Croatia's railways 200 million kunas more than they would get from new excise duties. In a situation where oil derivatives prices reach record levels, the government has not additionally burdened citizens with a new tax, thus avoiding hitting the standard of Croatian citizens. If we look at the business reports of the Croatian Railways, then it is evident from the stable reviews that the implementation of planned investments from 2000 to 2003 was far below planned, 34 to 55%. It was only in 2004 that 82% of the planned investments were made, as well as the largest investments shown in kunas were made in 2004 and that was a billion 835 million kunas. Investments in infrastructure projects of €438 million were planned in 2002. The achievement was only 18.8% and 269 million kuna, respectively. In 2003, investments of 2 billion 172 million kuna were planned, with a realisation of only 36.3% and 789 million kuna respectively. In 2004, the planned investments amounted to a billion kuna 653 million, with a realisation of 960 million kuna, i.e. 58%, and this is the year with the largest investment in the period 2000 to 2004. In 2005 the Croatian railways expected the realisation of investments in Croatian railways in infrastructure about 60% by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, the same situation is almost the same with investments in Croatian railways in transport. It's also hugely planned investments, and the realisation is barely 20%. In 2005, the planned budget for investments in programmes and projects was higher for the period 2000 to 2003. In 4 years, the investment budget allocated 588 and 797 million kuna, hence the right to invest only in 2005 is higher by more than 200 million kuna. This leads us to conclude that the financial support needed for projected investments over the past years has not been accompanied by programmes and projects. According to the Law on Railways, the obligation of the state budget is also the provision of means to encourage passenger transport, as well as the means to maintain railway infrastructure. These funds have been very unevenly planned in the state budget over the past years. Due to the lack of funds for regular business and infrastructure investment and infrastructure projects, which, according to the Law on Railways, are required to ensure that the Croatian State of Railways has a permanent problem of liquid liquidity, which was resolved by short-term borrowing in 2002, and the payment of loans to the budget amounted to 2004, that means to this Government. In 2003, 400 and 500 million kuna loans to the burden of the budget also paid to this government in 2004. In early 2004, Croatian railways withdrew short-term loans worth 179 million kuna on behalf of returning short-term loans raised during 2001 and 2003. The repayment of credit to the burden of the budget also took place in 2005 on the burden of this government. On behalf of the disbursement of these short-term loans to the burden of the state budget, a total of billions and 703 million kunas were paid, out of which a billion, 679 million kunas of principal and 24 million kunas of interest. Croatian railways from their own income paid 63.7m kuna interest on these loans. However, in 2004 and 2005, the state budget demonstrated in a transparent way the funds for positions intended for Croatian railways. However, the means to maintain rail infrastructure for the promotion of passenger transport, to invest in programmes and projects for long-term debt repayments in the state budget also required the provision of a billion kuna of 703 million for the settlement of liabilities under those short-term loans. If these funds were focused on investment, many investment financing and modernisation and the acquisition of modern car capacities, locomotives and others would have been addressed, and investments in infrastructure capacities. It should also be said that the former management of the Croatian Railways is very proud of the purchase of eight sets of slope trains. However, taxpayers need to know that each of these furniture is paid about 4.5m euros. For comparison only, a luxury passenger bus with 60 seats costs about 500 thousand euros. So for the money of every set we could buy nine modern buses. It is also important to stress that for the purchase of these train furniture was never announced public tender but trains were purchased through intermediaries. Shortly after that purchase, this hot potato had to be inherited by the new Croatian Railways Administration. It is about trains that are designed for up to 200km and not for the route from Zagreb to Split, which has more than 400km. This has led to frequent problems both with air conditioning and with sanitary knots. She also bought former Croatian Railways Administrations with conductors about 800 train tickets. Each device has been paid at a high price and these devices have never been put into operation primarily because of their unquality and dysfunction. I would also like to say that it is argued by the promoter, for example yesterday, to show that they are right yesterday, it is claimed that the Croatian government and the Croatian state will not build a highway through Neum which we all know is false. So, with incorrect information, it wants to affect the Croatian public to show that this Croatian government is doing something that is not in Croatia's interest and I don't think it's correct and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46250	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46251	Kolega Zubovic incorrectly argues that the budget now stands out more than would have been set aside for the Croatian railways if the Law on Croatian Railways had not changed and that it had not given up on this modernisation. So, if it hadn't given up modernization just this year, it would have been 6.6 billion, and this is how 2.8 billion will be allocated. Well, colleagues Zubović, 2.8 is less than 6.6 and 6.6 is more than 2.8. It's very simple to understand. And besides, these 2.8 billion are not from the budget as you claim. There are consolidated and all sources secured from credit obligations including the Development Bank, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. And what you're saying is that one train could buy six buses is really funny. You could have said I don't know how many boats but buses and boats don't drive along the tracks, they don't drive a colleague of Zubovic. We're talking about the development of railways here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46252	Second correction by respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46253	It's not true that any of the promoters said there wouldn't be a highway through Neum, it was about a bridge. A colleague, Linic, mentioned the Land-Peljesac Bridge when it came to the union and the character supply, when Minister Kalmeta may have accidentally said it was a suspicious figure track. I think he used that term. And then my colleague Linic answered and it's suspicious when it comes to railways, and when it comes to roads, then the bridge is not suspicious, etc. But really, it wasn't that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46254	Replica's respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46255	So I'm going to replicate that part of his classmates' exposure where he was saying that this government's better policy is because it's a budget separation than it is from a excise on fuel. It seems to me that he said that it was somehow invaluable consequences were, there were no estimated consequences when it was being introduced. In fact, the model, which was set for financing in 2003, actually looked at the railway through three sources in such a way as to finance public interest in transport from the state budget as a subsidy. So that's what's planned in the budget, and I think it's good because if the total budget is planned for the railroad, then it depends year by year on what the relationship between the users of the budget is and you can't know in advance how much will be allocated in which year. The second part of the funding was a plan through the Law on Railways by extracting 0,60 kuna from the price of gasoline as a means of maintaining infrastructure. It is possible to make it uncontrollable not to increase fuel prices because at this time and at the time when such a law was passed, the state was participating through taxes with 37% in the price of fuel. A third source of funding that should cover infrastructure investments should also be found on the market, so through loans and the state will provide state guarantees. Well, that's what this government does. She can't single out so much funds from the budget to finance the railroad, and I think it's wrong to abolish this kind of funding that was planned by the Law on Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46256	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46257	I said that without the detailed development of funding with 0,60 limes per litre of gasoline, that no such funding was worked out until the end and that not all possible consequences were considered, which would result from that. That was mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46258	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46259	Dear Mr. President, I must react to Mr. Zubovic's first claim that for one tilt train the Croatian railways could buy 6 buses. Croatian railways are not engaged in the transport of passengers, it is not about a bus transport company, it is about Croatian railways. And I therefore plead that today we talk about how to make use of the potentials of railways and that the railways use what gives us both our geographical features and all the possibilities for us to find ourselves in a situation where all these situations that are happening in the European Union are to pass Croatia and lose a great deal of money revenue and the possibility of modernising the railway. The second part, I must react, is about the situation of establishing a daughter's company within and Croatian railways. I think it's a pretty dangerous situation if we also heard the situation as well as the government interprets about ITAS yesterday on, what happened to ITAS that also founded the daughters' companies and what happened. I must warn you that it is a mode that has existed since long ago and it goes against the Croatian defenders themselves because we know that they have the right to share in all public enterprises, and that is the first thing that has taken place in the water industry and everyone else. And that's how you just create an extra fertile soil for corruption and for preying in, and robbery in conversion and privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46260	Thank you. Replication response, respected representative Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46261	I would answer to the honourable representative that I was just thinking about what I would put as a comparison to understand how much it costs and worth one such train so I put the buses on and I think I did because right now he realized how much it costs and how big it is. And the other thing he's saying, I wasn't talking about any daughters, at least I have two daughters, but I don't know why I'm okay with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46262	On behalf of the promoter of the interpretation, honourable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46263	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This government has been demeaning and constantly downplaying the former government's concept of modernising Croatian railways, which meant investment and jobs, in short development. What did she offer? Highly controlled trains, but not in terms of security, because unfortunately safety on the tracks today is compromised. Trains are not regular, and the union president adds that even internal betting stations have begun to organize whether the locomotive will be lit or the train will remain broken. There was even almost a shift of train traffickers at the Ogulih-Hreljin station who told the media the truth that it prevented an almost certain accident that the government wanted to cover up through HZ administration. An ambitious project to restructure and modernise Croatian railways began in 2003 during the government of Ivica Racan, and by 2007, investments of nearly 15.5 billion kuna or more than 3 billion kuna per year were scheduled. We need to know that everyone not giving up on this concept but every slowdown, restructuring and modernisation affects competitiveness. The plan was to increase the level of an equal partner through five-year investment of the Croatian railways' competitiveness and to engage in, therefore, Croatian railways enter a competition with competition from neighbouring countries. Tire trains are only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to domestic railways, without investment domestic railways will continue to drive 28-year-old compositions, not air-conditioned passenger trains of which few meet the European Union's ecological standards. The tow trucks tend to malfunction while in freight transport we have cargo wagons that are not available, while the loads that are offered on the market have nothing to transport. Without investment, we will remain on the infrastructure of Caroline and Josephine, and not even the train trip will be attractive. And the greatest danger also lurks for domestic co-operatives, railways, and this for the train factory Gredelj, for Končar, for Djuru Djakovic, who performs most of the modernization business, clean imports, applies only to the sloped trains while these modernisation projects are determined by no one but domestic companies. The fatal decision to slow down the modernisation of Croatian railways was unfortunately made by a proposal and voting here on the state budget for 2004. And just after that, on the round table which was adapted by the Croatian Union Association, the Faculty of Transport in Zagreb and the Transport Engineers Association, it was literally said this. Croatia would slow down the railways if their modernisation could become a cheap target of takeover. Less and fewer railways, which, based on their modernisation as partners, are not gathered by about 5 major European railways, Germany, France, England, Switzerland and Russia, will be swallowed by railway operators. The government, however, remained deaf, silent and blind to these, to these objective warnings and to these dangers that have not passed today, however, have increased. Even in an unexplainable way, the government gives up collecting excise duties of 60 lips per litre of oil derivatives and leaves an open state guarantee to HZ in value of... One million euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was then explained that this new government still does not want to burden Croatian citizens when the price of oil derivatives was generally about 5.5 kuna per litre, today after 8 kunas from the government? What? Go to the trams don't drive cars, that's the answer and it's a concern for Croatian citizens. And indeed, in the media, it began not to speculate openly, but to speak openly of this objective danger. Does Croatia and its HZ give gifts to foreigners? With the newly started islands and islands, while yesterday Prime Minister Sanader said and so openly, we will not sell out, one is said and the other is done. Second, our mechanisms are opening up the possibility of doing things differently. So, indeed, along with the islands and islands, it is now the turn of the railway system and their entire network, infrastructure, transport, users, suppliers, business partners, it is only the question that this gift is better arranged, the better served, perhaps in this case large German and French companies. However, the objective of modernising the Croatian railway that was launched for Racan's governments until yesterday was this: the Croatian railway must become one of the three regional leaders in the transport of goods and passengers to the railways. In this project, Croatia's railway is intended to invest 15.3 billion kuna in the period from 2003 to 2007 and the key investments would be capital refurbishment of the railway line, electrification of the railway in... Knin-Split, modernization of the railway Beli Manastir – Osijek – Slavonski Brod, Shamac – Metsković – Ploče, as well as the acquisition of tilt trains that was partly started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the government's fatal decision to reduce the modernisation of Croatia's railways, Croatia remains and will always be on three extremely important international corridors, and this government must not ignore it. On important international corridors connecting the Adriatic and southern Europe with Central Europe. It is therefore a big bait for all potential customers of HZ or for the takeover of railway concessions in Croatia but until yesterday and a key reason for speeding up the modernisation of the Croatian railway, and of which this Sanader government is in an unexplainable way giving up. By giving up this overall modernisation of HZ, the government is canceling, reducing the least said HZ's chances of participating in investment and expanding jobs in the Southeastern Europe region without which it is difficult to achieve its business optimum, especially in relation to major competitors from the European Union. So there remains an open danger, and the government should give not only the Croatian railways, but the Croatian citizens a direct answer. Freight traffic towards Croatian ports has increased. Unfortunately, at this point, the Croatian railway itself cannot meet these needs at all, and that is what must seriously be concerned. This government often boasts that in its intentions it is in some procedures, in some changes that are strangely explained, but there is one argument. It almost draws it out as an axiom that no longer needs to be added because there are certain trade unions behind that decision. Gentlemen here are... unions inexorable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where unions don't bribe themselves in any way. They're one here. Because they love that railroad. Because they love their country. Because they think she has her own perspective. It's safe about the railroad here is already spoken somewhere, you can talk from that emotional charge. And it's these unions that warn the government of shutting down the railroad. They say they are dissatisfied with the way the government perceives Croatian railways and see no way out of the realistically catastrophic state of railways and transport capacity. Those are the gentlemen's words. At a series of round tables they opened, which they organized but the government and the Resolute Ministry did not find it appropriate to respond to these round tables. Croatian railways must and want to become a profitable company because it does not make sense to live off tax taxpayers' money. That's what union people say. That's what the railroad employees say. Who know her well. The situation in the Croatian railways says it is just unsustainable. And that's the leaders of the three unions. They warn that the state of HZ has reached its bottom. They claim that traffic safety has never been more serious. They sent not this letter only to the MPs. They also sent a letter to the Minister of Resort. They've sent a letter to the government, and the public doesn't know anything about it. But thank God it can be found on the Internet so we can get out of here because we are excluded from the world and the world, the telecommunication world as representatives of no more than the 19th century, and the situation is such a real state of affairs that we can also use our poet's thoughts, while the railroad is being captured by a remote government that wants to deafen to all these objective warnings would be no other government but a government beyond every track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46264	First, respected counterparts, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, are not agents excluded from the outside world. Representatives and other participants in the Croatian Parliament and members of the government and all others who participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament are only disabled as in every European Parliament to use mobile telephony. And that's how it's gonna be, whether someone likes it or not. As in the French, Italian, Spanish, Austrian, German and other parliaments, so will the Croatian Parliament when individuals did not want to stick to the guidance that the end of the clearly visible ban on mobile phone in the Croatian Parliament when they were obstructing the work of the entire Parliament then this measure was also necessary to remove the possibility of mobile telephoning by means of the device. It is neither to prevent the contact of agents with the outside world nor to, directed against any party. This is aimed at the independence and normal functioning of the Croatian Parliament. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46265	Here's a series of incorrect data from my colleague Anticevic. I'll try to correct two. He swears in good cooperation between the former administration and the former government with the unions, and I will try to read only one quote from a letter I received in early 2004 from a union: "Now we are faced with the situation that the HH has only a formal supervisory board and management. We don't even have a representative of the board of directors. And despite the fact that, together with four other unions, we've agreed on the names of the workers' representatives. We think that this situation should be resolved as soon as possible." So much about co-operation with the unions. My colleague said there was a train driver at Ogulin-Hrelja station. It's not the Ogulin-Bregli station. It's the Ogulin-Browl Station. The transporter is Brozovic. And he's not far away. As a participant of an extraordinary event under the Law on the Safety of Transport on Railways until the end of the procedure and the determination of the cause is temporarily removed from the workplace only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46266	Thank you. Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46267	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a series of incorrect allegations, there's really a lot of them. Let's take the simplest. There's one thing you can say and the other you can do. Namely, let me illustrate right now. He says, "The slope trains are the tip of the iceberg," I guess the modernisation of the railroad, what else? Tire trains are probably the tip of the iceberg possible corruption of Racan's government because under these conditions no one would take such trains alive. Two, you're talking to each other. Holy Rock says we'll grow mushrooms, you'll boast about it today. And thirdly, happiness is alive if the railroad hadn't gone through the Piran Bay because all we would have left with Racan's government is the left track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46268	Third correction, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46269	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative Anticevic incorrectly said: "The government has in an unexplainable way given up the introduction of excise duty." That is absolutely not true. The Ministry's representatives here on the second day, as well as the minister's personal argument with the concrete data presented, explained why and how they gave up the excise duty and how the funds needed to be achieved and directed towards the Croatian Railways were allocated. And I am correcting the second incorrect quote that the distinguished colleague said, and it says: "The government is giving up the modernisation of the Croatian Railways or Croatian Railways". It's just not true. From all the data of the financial nature that we had opportunities not only to hear but also to the presented documents, the absolutely opposite arises. This government does not give up modernising Croatian railways. The funding modes in the framework of budgetary opportunities may be different, but it is absolutely unacceptable to find that this government has given up modernising Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46270	Thank you very much. I ask the representatives to be within the limits of fair play without charges, general charges of corruption that we stick to what will not cause unnecessary conflicts in the Croatian Parliament. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46271	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My dear colleague, 10 minutes of your inaccuracy I'll only bring out a few. The Croatian Government does not give up the development of Croatian Railways but for the first time in the state budget in 2004 and 2005 has shown transparent means for positions intended for Croatian railways, the first inaccuracy. The second inaccuracy that this government, the Croatian government says drive on a tram. It is not the sale of this Croatian Government of Croatian islands and islets, but it is with responsibility that our common path towards the European Union works. This government hasn't slipped off the track, and at the end of the day, Madam colleagues, since you became the guardian of the Croatian hearth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46272	There's sisterly love. Come on, come on, come And the esteemed representative Marian Bekavac, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd correct an incorrect assumption. In a number of incorrect allegations from counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, who says the Croatian government speaks one thing and the other works, and sells out islands, Croatian property. It is incorrect for this government to speak one thing and the other to work and sell out Croatian islands and property. This government works transparently and is open to the public unlike you and your president who has almost handed the Savudrija wave to the Slovenians without a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46274	Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46275	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is necessary to make a few sentences based on what was said in the previous debates. Dear Mrs. Assembly MP, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic said that we are demeaning the work of the former government, that is. She also said that the government wanted to cover up a case on the Croatian railways. I think my debate was previous, and the whole of yesterday was actually abundant with the government's emphasis on the positive elements made by the former government, and directly my previous performance was the same. So, in no element of the former government's work on that part, which was positive, he did not belittle himself. On the contrary, by stating that the government wants to cover up a Benigan case that was subsequently clarified, the trafficker was returned, and as the well-respected Mr. Parliamentary representative said for procedural reasons was remote. So this particular case confirms that neither did what was intended to insinuate happen, and the government certainly has absolutely many, many, many more important jobs than to cover up this case. So this definition of demeaning may not have been the most appropriate. It was also stated that the decision on the 2004 budget stopped the modernisation of Croatian railways. Never in Croatia's history was so isolated for Croatian railways as in 2004. 4.7 billion kuna in 2004. If it is, I really don't know how to think logically or if it's a stop, and it's been more than a few times more in the previous year, then I really don't know what conclusion we can conclude from that besides that it's not an exact claim. Maybe the plastic comparison will illustrate what 4.7 billion means. In 2004, the Ministry of Interior spent about 3.3 billion kuna, 3 and a half billion kuna, and the Ministry of Interior 3.3 billion kuna. So since 2004, Croatian railways have received almost 50% more funding than the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. And such comparisons may be better than the naked numbers, because we've already been a little bit Googled, so maybe these comparisons will better illustrate how much was set out at the border last year, you'd dare even say beyond the limits possible at that point. That traffic has increased in ports, and Croatian railways are unable to serve it, but the claim I have generally denied has been made. If traffic increased in ports and increased. In particular, in 2003 it was 12 million 733 thousand tonnes, 2004. 14 million 368 thousand kuna, 2005 forecast, will be exceeded according to latest data, 16 million 900 thousand tonnes in 4 Croatian largest ports, Rijeka, Ploče, Sibenik, Zadar. So, undeniably, the figures are talking, traffic is rising. If you go to one of those ports, you'll see that the goods don't stand in the ports. What's the conclusion? Someone had to take that stuff. So the best proof that traffic has increased without her standing in the ports is that someone drove her away. It was taken away by Croatian railways and this is proof that Croatian railways are able to service ports at this time. And if in the future it will have to work a lot to modernise capacity so that even more traffic can be serviced, that is correct, we have not disputed, that is what we are saying today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46276	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46277	Your Honor, Mr. President, yesterday I was also on the incorrect assumption that in the first 9 months of 2004 the modernization of the railroad was not stopped correcting the incorrect allegations because the fact is next. Yes, in the budget, only the rebalance of the 9th month was achieved that part of which you are now talking about. So, the unquestionable fact is that in the first nine months of 2004 the railway modernisation process was stopped, and so it wasn't the current song "Beige Jankec, run off the Jankac Chug you bu ran away", but now for Breglac "Stop Breglec, stop Breglec, the booze hasn't gone away", that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46278	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46279	My correction refers to the same facts. Mr. Secretary of State, in 2004, your government, in fact, you were paying for what was done, and the truth is what my predecessor said to stop the pace of realization of accepted modernisation plans, that, therefore, there was a delay, a slowdown and a stop to the speed of realisation of Croatian railways that would have continued to remain in each other's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46280	I guess we should be aware that there is always the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and there is no one of you and their government. ... We understand each other, but first we need to stop using this, your government, their government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46281	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The change of state authorities in the Republic of Croatia in the past parliamentary elections regarding state policy towards the Croatian railways is a turning point. Stopping the pace of modernising Croatian railways by the new government is unfortunately another example of how much Croatia lacks long-term planning. I wonder if any change of government must necessarily mean giving up the projects launched by the previous government. Perhaps the concern of the current government for the modernisation of Croatian railways would remain undetected that a series of railway accidents did not distract the media and the public in this direction. One of the long-term consequences of these accidents, along with that particular material, will also be a further reduction in the number of passengers resulting from a reduction in rail transport confidence as a safe form of transport. Where do you look for the causes of the accidents mentioned? The responsibility for these was transferred to the lowest levels of governance, not HZ administration, or government, which, by poor business and abandoning the modernisation project, led the Croatian railways into an uninvited position. The difficulties in the financial business of HZ and frequent accidents with huge damages are sufficient reason for the government to take more seriously the modernisation and restructuring of railways. Credits need to be provided for the current settlement of HZ debt and the 2003-2007 plan should be developed dynamically per year in order to monitor the implementation of the modernisation and restructuring programme of railways. I would not mention figures as well as arguments and counterarguments because we have heard many of them yesterday and today, but I still want to illustrate the state of today's Croatian Railways with a picturesque example. The introduction of business trains in the 1970s last century by train from Rijeka to Zagreb looked about like this. It's been three and a half hours. The price of the map included a warm drink, so coffee or tea. The backs of the passenger's head were white. Above each seat was a reading lamp, if the other passengers were sleeping. The cars had a sound system from which the music and travel information of the train staff could be listened during the journey. It was possible to regulate the temperature in the compartments. Very often it happened that just before the trip you couldn't buy a ticket because they were all sold out and that week and more in advance. I also remind you that the journey from Rijeka to Zagreb took 4 hours and that the price of the return ticket for the train was 20 to 30% lower than the bus ticket. Today, 30 years later, while in the most developed countries, railways are again affirmed as a competitive means of transport, in the passenger traffic of the most developed countries, they reach the speeds of 300 km and more per hour, and the equipment and comfort of trains fully corresponds to technological achievements and the needs and lifestyle of modern man, what do we have in Croatia, that is, what does the journey of Rijeka – Zagreb train look like today? The road takes 4 to 4 and a half hours, and due to frequent delays and often much longer. Due to the weariness of certain railway sections, the train moves at pedestrian speeds. Most of the time, there are no reading lamps, nor are there white coats for the head. There is no warm drink, no temperature can be regulated in the compartments, so we often have a sauna or a freezer effect. The sounding's gone or not working. In view of the fact that the construction of the highway has shortened by bus for more than an hour, and the price of the train has become up to 20% higher than the bus, it is clear that, with the accidents mentioned earlier, these additional reasons for the continued decline in the number of Croatian railway passengers. The international trains of the Croatian railways also have less and less because they are in such a state that they will soon not be able to go beyond the border. If we were to rely on our railways on our journey to Europe, I'm afraid their current rate of speed to Europe would reach one of the future generations, and that if we got off the train and continued on foot or on foot. For example, almost every station of the Croatian Railways in the country and so also on the main station in Zagreb disabled people in a wheelchair cannot enter the building of the station, nor can they go on a journey without notice, approach the platform and get on the train because on this busiest hub in the country there are no access ramps that would allow them to move freely. Another consequence of the lack of investment is the continued increase in the cost of maintaining the infrastructure for minimum transport skills, as well as the complete incompetence of freight transport under the application of the European Union Directives. It is high time that this most environmentally acceptable form of land transport and in Croatia strives to develop in accordance with the trends and standards of the most developed countries. And that is why I join all those who are seeking to change our government's policy towards the Croatian Railways to avoid the situation of us being a service to others who make dizzy profits on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46282	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46283	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It has already become common for every debate here in the Croatian Parliament on economic activities, especially on the need to find quality solutions or speed up the start of processes, turn into an analysis and accusation that the government has done more and whose measures have been more effective. That's what you, Mr. President, intervened, intervened and said yourself. And today the question arises who was smarter, who was more resourceful, more capable, more efficient and etc. And by that, even today's debate is no exception. And yesterday, and today with this debate, we have two pictures. The positional and this opposition. And not only in the materials that we have received in the preparation of this point but also here as shown in the discussions of individual colleagues and colleagues. Statistics continue to be used differently, different mixes, and in doing so firmly remains in the given positions while life's reality unfortunately points to the opposite. The citizens know best how they don't. Most of them, unfortunately, still have difficulty living and, most importantly, are less and less trusting. They are tired and exhausted from these most often unproductive debates, and ultimately mutual accusations are not of interest to them. They only want to hear one thing and when they will experience and feel better, when they will live better and better. We know that the quality answers to these questions, and also on this topic today, cannot be given by the Croatian Railways. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and myself in the Croatian Parliament are already the only ones. Do we have the strength and the ability, and in particular the goodwill and responsibilities, to bring quality solutions and to endure their implementation. The way things are now, we don't have a whole lot or we don't have any. We still have different truths, so we heard a number of times in the debate that the previous government had planned one means, this one. Among other things, the truth is that the restructuring and modernisation of Croatian railways structured in the business plan for the period 2003 to 2007 total investments in Croatian railways were to reach the amount of 16 billion kuna, and for the regular maintenance of infrastructure amounting to cca 7 and a half billion and for the subsidisation of public interest in the passenger transport of cca 2 billion kuna. So in 2005, the Croatian Railways' revenue plan needed 3.9 billion kuna and 2.7 billion kuna investments, i.e. 6.6 billion kuna. In response, the government said a total of 2 billion 814 million kunas were to be spent in the modernisation of the Croatian Railways in 2005 and so on. This interpretation, or through this debate, we've heard a lot of things, that I'm not counting numbers, I personally believe that the purpose of the interpretation is not to accuse each other, but to simply improve the situation. We all know that large infrastructure works trigger a wide range of activities and the opposite by slowing down, stopping or leaving the same gaps and overall economic development. I will not talk about the weaknesses, about what was inherited in 2000, which was left in 2004, where Croatian railways are going, that's already said a lot before me, and allow me just a few words about one of the segments of stopping development. Looking through the prism of economic development, not accusing but believing statistics, the Croatian Railways fleet is an average age of 24 to 28 years and this passenger wagon for 26 years, motor trains for 24 years, freight wagons 27 years, locomotives 28 years. The latest purchases of new passenger cars took place in 1991 and the locomotive in 1989. If we add this backlog to the necessary capital refurbishment of the railways, and insufficient all other modernisations, not to mention them, it is not realistic to expect that Croatian railways will be able and competitive for the future very fast and ruthless competition, and our aim should be to create assumptions that Croatian railways are both capable and competitive for the competition and not only on our railways and not only the Croatian railways, but also other economic operators. One of these subjects is certainly "Djuro Djakovic" the first car factory, bridges and machines founded in 1921, probably all of you extremely well-known, at least by brand and exactly this "Djuro Djakovic", i.e. special vehicles "Djura Djakovica", thanks to the efforts of the previous government in the previous 3 and a half years for Croatian railways produced and delivered 618 wagons, and by the end of the year they will also deliver the remaining 34 which will close the order of 652 wagons. Thanks to this large order, Djuro Djakovic has been very successfully affirmed and obtained references that allow him to cope with strong European and world competition and quality issues, as well as production dynamics. In the last 2 years, Djuro Djakovic has already managed to produce one car a day, and the more time he moves away, the more unquestionable it is that production dynamics are also increasing, but unfortunately despite the proven capabilities in Djura Djakovic, special vehicles do not all sleep peacefully. Perhaps it is better to say that they do not sleep at all for reasons of great concern and for a naked existence, unfortunately because of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. To clarify, over the past 2 years, due to the investment slowdown, the decrease and dynamics of production have slowed down and it is very certain that the original plan from a thousand 670 new wagons by 2008. At this time despite the firm promise of the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the meeting in Slavonski Brod on 22 September of this year and the promise of production of new 300 wagons by September 2007, the total value of 2100 20 million kuna, due to the absence of a contract on the production of these wagons, is questionable to the fate of at least 2 hundred of the 500 employees. Taking care of these people who are certainly following and this debate today in the absence of Mr. Minister, I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, and I ask you for a clear answer, how much do you know, when will the contract and the continued production of the wagon in Đuri Đaković be signed to special vehicles so that we do not experience that instead of the wagons on the tracks they are workers, regardless of the left or on the right track, strike of course, and the announcements for the strike are more than obvious? Knowing most of these employees who also defended their bodies from exporting tanks during or before the Homeland War, it would not be good for us to have such a scene on Croatian railways in which part we experience, while trade unionists announce that they will block the Zagreb-Vinkovci railway among other things. Of course, patience, I repeat it in the end, so I ask that we address this problem as soon as possible and finally allow me, Mr. President, to just say the following. In a firm belief that all the funds invested so far, but also the efforts are not sufficient, and that they need to be significantly increased, as my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP club and stressed, I consider this debate necessary today, and because of the continuity and stability of the system, I support the proposed conclusions, especially the government's commitment to discuss the dynamics of the realisation of the railways' modernisation and reconstruction programme, and to ensure the necessary resources from whatever source. Just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46284	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46285	We'll move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46286	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46287	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, fellow railwaymen. I will try to continue the debate from yesterday where it was debated on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, although I think I will repeat myself in the good part or already say what was said by fellow MPs. As we discuss the interpretation at the request of halting the modernisation of railways, the Ministry of Finance prepares the payment of 160 million short-term loans that the former government has bridged the indifference of Croatian railways from 2000. In the period from 2000 to 2003 HH was often in charge of the short term for the purposes of overcoming liquidity and consolidation of financial operations. A further 500 million short-term credits for 2003's credits were also subdued by the government last year. In a year we are expected to pay an additional 400 million to which the former government consolidated Croatian railways in 2001. The former government's business policy on overcoming the liquidity and consolidation of HZ's business has burdened the government's work with over 2 billion kuna, not counting interest. In addition to 2 billion loans for current liquidity commitments to suppliers at the end of 2003 amounted to more than 530 million kuna, after the first 6 months of this year without credit debt for the consolidation and financial operations of the Croatian railways were reduced to less than 460 million kuna. The numbers are a lot spoken up and we may not pay enough attention to them, but I think these following data that I'm about to give is enough talk about everything and the justification for the interpretation. Between 2000 and 2003, Croatia's railways totalled a billion and 370 million investments in infrastructure and a billion 220 million in transport capacity. Within just 18 months of this government in the Croatian Railways, a billion and 260 million investments in infrastructure and a billion in transport capacity have been realised, noting only 18 months. With such an investment ratio, it is important to say that in 2003 alone over 630 million kuna investments were contracted to direct contracts, whereas in 2004 and 2005, less than 160 million were realised in these 18 months by direct contracts. I think the ratio says everything. In Croatian railways as well as a total balance sheet with dependent companies, we note for the first time a significant reduction in the number of jobs with work income and an increase in the efficiency of the Croatian railways measured by a labour ratio of 10%. In 2005, there was also an increase in Croatian Railways' salaries by 5%. In the first six months of this year, Croatia's railways recorded the growth of the number of passengers transported by 6.3%, which many said was not true and transport, what particularly cheers, goods by 14.3% as measured by the number of passenger or net tonne-kilometres. Often from fellow MPs in front of clubs and individual debates, it is said that we must make railways that will be competitive on roads, Croatian highways. I think that, while we must make and modernise Croatian railways to be competitive with our highways, it is a priority to make and modernise Croatian railways so that they are competitive with European railways, other European corridors, because Croatia's entry into the European Union will certainly require other corridors and that Croatian railways must be so modernised that our corridors are competitive with other corridors and this competitive Croatian highways is less important to me because Croatia's state and bonds are also invested in the construction of Croatian highways if we exclude that ecological sphere which is certainly more favourable for Croatian railways. We swear so much on the work of our companies, our railway sisters, and that's good. It is good that the former government has made and these societies are going to the market, just not in the way it was done, not in a way that restores the block of the house in Zagreb to the company's daughter's ranch station costs 400,000 kuna, to rebuild the sanitary node in Donji Dubrava cost 500 thousand kuna. In this way, taxes cannot be invested, taxpayers' funds in subsidiaries so that they can be marketable tomorrow when they are privatised to the market. I am for giving daughters of Croatian Railways companies but also that they must be at least the most favourable bidder and not use those laws, those provisions in the law if they are owned that they can be given before the competition, which then increases four to five times the price of what was then made. We talk a lot about frames. It is good to say that by 31.12.2003 85 employees were more employed compared to 31.12.2000. But I think it's good to go back maybe 15 years when ZTP Zagreb was 90 years old, it seems to me to be 41 thousand and 250 employees, or at that time workers. So Croatian railways have done much to restructure and reduce the number of workers in all these 15 years. In these past four years, 97.4 million kuna has been spent during the former government to dispatch workers. At the same time, 969 workers were admitted, which gives 85 of those more employees, and there was no effect on the improvement of the qualification structure, only 10% of the employees have education more than medium professional training. In 2005, for the first time in agreement, therefore voluntarily, 600 workers left from the Croatian Railways than was accepted. Objection to the government on political shifts, to staffing the political in Croatian railways, so I may say a little differently than others. I personally think, I say personally, that the purpose of every policy is to win power. And in order for a man to rule, a party to rule must have its own people. If they won't have their own people in state-owned enterprises, then I don't know where they'll have and how one policy will rule. And I think it's a policy equation one time. How good is she about it we can judge but it is not good that at the end of a political term as the former government did three months before the elections the regional directors who were not at all there, and look at the game of the case almost all the union presidents. You know who those are. Is that an accident and for what? And now, is that buying social peace? Those directors are there today. I don't think that's good, and that's politics and staffing, and the director of the administration that's almost normal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46288	Thank you. The first replica of the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46289	So I'm replicating part of the presentation of an esteemed colleague that every government's purpose is to have its people everywhere. Well, that's what brought Croatia into this state. It was this fact that brought Croatia into this state that everything was always moving from the beginning. ... State administration and public enterprises... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46290	Okay. Allow the representative to speak freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46291	So the fundamental purpose is to have professional, honest, professional people and they will implement politics because each government is expressing its policy in a legal initiative. And their obligation is to enforce the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Well, then we'll move forward, not keep bringing our people in. Those "their people" brought us here where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46292	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46293	I'll try to talk to my colleague Kovacevic. I said it was my opinion and I remain with my opinion that the purpose of politics, the purpose of government policy, is to win power and rule. And I said that, I said it in state-owned enterprises, and that's where I stay. But I also think that you're not telling the truth because you don't behave like that in nature when or in politics when you're negotiating with political entities, even with your party, then you're asking us to be directors there, to have a director there. So, you yourself have adjudicated with your own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46294	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46295	On the same line as Mr Kovacevic, it is undeniable that the government wants to achieve results, but forgive the respected colleague, through the supervisory board, and most often politicians can achieve political control over the state-owned enterprise as often as it can and does not have to be good, because often these politicians sitting on supervisory boards have no idea what they should be monitoring. That's why until we have in state-owned companies managers who, no matter who's in power, will be able to work freely, we won't have prosperity in such companies. What you're supporting... It is something quite good for the Croatian public to hear that you support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's obvious they'll still be enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And yet another replica related to what you were saying, the Croatian Railways and can't achieve greater work precisely because they don't have enough,.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... as passenger cars such as freight wagons and have no tow capacity, you as the man who... Croatian railways know this very well and the Government must work with its measures to make sure that, this is what my colleague Gavran said that enough of these cars are made in the Republic of Croatia because we will hire our people, the tax taxes that are given here, we use for greater gross national income and that people are ultimately working, to work for a Croatian worker and not for some German or from where imports are being made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46296	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46297	I don't support any... If it was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then they were on January 3, 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll repeat, I'll repeat what, 2000, I'll repeat what I said, I think that implementing politics can only be done through people, your people who have policies or coalition partners, certainly there should be professional people. How will we implement policy if we leave directors in state-owned enterprises with some other policy options? Who's to blame, whether it's politics or whether it's going to be those executives. Who are you going to replicate to? Who are you going to attack?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46298	Yeah, yeah, uh... Powers and capable and incompetent, both professional and similar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46299	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anyone from my generation of Split and Dalmatian students who can talk about the railroad without emotion, we've all, we've all been tied to the railroad, to the train, as we say about the ferat, when we come to Zagreb, here, study, work, come to a friend etc.. So they really have the right to those who say that they can't talk without emotion about the railroad. Personally next to the boat, it's my favorite and still my way of transport, and I would, it seems to me that my colleague Markovanovic, here's just a colleague from Osijek who came here to the Parliament of the Railways, and everyone else in the cars, what I know and how. And I would come to the railway to drive 4.5 hours and that was that promise made by the old administration that at that pace the railway was modernized for Christmas this year we would do Split by these projections Marian Express is coming to Zagreb in 4.5 hours, then I would travel by rail and not like this and a little stocking etc. She's driving in the fog and I don't know. I'm driving a car and I'm not really comfortable driving, being on the highway all the time or whatever I know where, I'd rather come to the railroad, and there's a question that seems basic to me. The basic question is this... My colleague Vukic was saying, I'll comment briefly, but the basic question is that it really doesn't matter, is, only a crazy man would be against the railroads in fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter whose authorities are working politically, and I agree with my colleague, Seks, they are all Croatian governments and those who were both present and who will come, who will only be. So it doesn't matter at all what government is in political terms, which authorities are talking about, but what philosophy of Croatia's development is about. We're different here. And there are really different political options, different policies have different views. And that's what we're supposed to talk about today, not who's been modernizing how many meters when it comes to billing. Is that because you paid for it or what they did physically? And does the pace of modernization continue as planned or slowed down? It's slowed down by us, and we think it's slowed down based on these records. You see a colleague, Drmpetic, who was head of the Croatian Railways Administration, was not pursued, he left alone. And it's a great honor for him to leave alone so the Wolfs wouldn't make him. Smart man. I left because he knows where he lives. Being successful by many, who know more about it than I do,... He knew where he lived, let him be successful, let him make a public promise of what he would have been responsible for today if he hadn't done it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It obviously doesn't matter, you need to have your own people. And what are our people? Are those party members? Then let's change Croatian laws, we are the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, change the laws, so let's say by these laws, when we come to power, then... who are in power, that it is not democratic, so it doesn't matter, at least it will be legal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's neither according to law nor democratic, but it's nakaradic. And we hear it in Parliament today. It's the same story about that other interpretation because some say in Split should be the power that is in Zagreb, because it's logical, so let's say who won in Croatia, won in municipalities, counties and cities, and there's no choice, what do we need elections for? It's not democratic, it's against the local logic of thinking, so it doesn't matter. Let us imagine ourselves, so how we are generally, regardless of political differences, and it seems to me that these are important issues. A lot has been said in these two days but I agree with all those who have said that the people who work, therefore, the workers, the colleagues, said before were workers, now workers, but these were workers, who are ideologies can change that from work the worker, from singing the singer, from swimming the swimmer, is not now the mahore, the sea, but the swimmer, so who does is the worker. Therefore, workers on the Croatian railways set the best example of how conscious people behave, they have truly fulfilled their obligations. That's what came out of a collective contract, that's the 6 grand that went to fight on the market for their existence. And they've really made their own, let's do ours, not share now on HDZ and SDP, but on us, here's the MPs. Let's do ours. Together with the Croatian government, let us do our part and accept our share of responsibility for it. There were words here, and if it is unical, whether there is a line, etc., there can be a sense of spirit and politicization, etc., but these things need to be clarified, so it is good to say in the Croatian Parliament, the line is our orientation because of what you are going through the foreign state of two railways, one of the Federation, the other of Republika Srpska, as it is already called and we are going. And when we focus on that, then some other questions will fall off. And the truth is, the former government was looking for that increase that would increase one liter of gasoline by 30 limes. And the truth is, it didn't work out because she said it was going to be a blow to the citizens' standard. And the truth is that then the gasoline liter was about 5.6.5 kuna and 6 limes and it's now 8. The truth is, people ride cars again. And the truth is, we don't have modern trains, we don't have fast tracks, we don't know what I know. It's true. And what if we'd accepted those 30 limes? And that's a legitimate question to be asked. Not because we talk about who was smarter than to do something now to get the Croatian railways into a situation so that they are modern, competitive. After all, we come to them and here we are with cars. If I didn't talk a lot, there were those eye-eyes around the bending trains. Well, Minister Calmeta said well. Well, well, even if we accept what they were, it's the only thing that's been done. And what if the track were modernised as it was imagined? I don't know. I believe, I say I wish it had happened, if it had given opportunity to those who promised it, who did it to try to keep their promises. But they left because they said, "We won't wait for our heads to come down. Let's go alone." I would pray, it seems to me that Secretary of State Berglec will do the Croatian public anyway, did I say well? Bregler, I'm sorry. [[/Intruder: Last name. Bregreek.]] That you will have to explain your statement to the Croatian public yesterday, if I understand correctly. Yeah, if we gave five billion kunas to the railroad every year so she wouldn't do anything. You wouldn't spend it, would you? No, I mean that statement stuck me like this in my ear somehow, so then it's a really hard statement. I would ask her for your explanation because it seems to me that we are questioning and capacity and that this may be the biggest criticism ever given in this House towards some administration, let's say a company like the Croatian Railways. You said now you mean they're super incompetent people. I apologize if I misunderstood you, but there is also a phonogram. If someone can't when you give him, uh, I don't know how to spend it, and he's in a difficult situation, then really, uh, he can't get any harder criticism. Especially not from a place as strong as where you are. And well here, yes, to finish and I'd like to repeat that because there's a lot of skepticism. It was, "Well, the railroads can't do it anyway," it's between the lines who it was that we were all well-intentioned, but there's no salvation. The example is indeed the highway that was made in three years. The truth is, no one was against her, but that, uh, bureaucracy was against her. Bureaucracies are often colourless. No, it's not politically colored. Your bureaucracy is eternal, and the authorities are passing. Remember that! And this is not your smartest colleague, Vukic, trying to solve the situation in Croatia in this way because we will all go without saying di. Some kind of hole. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46300	Okay. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46301	Your Honor, Mr. President, although I agree with inspired exposure and an emotionalally respected colleague, I have one, perhaps more rectification. A colleague said all governments were both these and who they were and who would come to be Croatian. I think it is better to use the term constitutional government of the Republic of Croatia. And about how Croatian they were when it comes to the Homeland War, if it's about conversion and privatisation, if it's about sales, I'm not sure they were all Croatian and they were acting in a way that means Croatian adjectives. They were only the governments of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I'm just gonna tell my colleague Wolfie that he incorrectly told that part about HSP. HSP nowhere where the authorities aren't or will be carrying out the cleaners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46302	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46303	Well, I, I'm convinced that every well-intentioned person understands me well. I wouldn't go into these language and political connotations, that. It was quite a benign attempt to say that all the governments in Croatia, chosen by the Croatian people, have the legitimacy to be called Croatian governments. And that's all so you don't make now who's more, who's less and again introduce politics where you don't trip between tracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46304	Yeah. All the owners are flying south. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46305	Well, I'll try to answer that. I don't know if a respected representative will understand me in a replica. I'm saying what I said and I'm standing there and I'm saying it honestly because that's what I think. [[Intruder: Replica, yes.]] And that's what I keep thinking. And yes, that's not how you say I don't, I don't know any units of local self-government or any of the municipalities where the SDP is in power, and he hasn't replaced the heads and directors of city or municipal enterprises. And if morale were one of yours, one of your party colleagues is the director of the city's firm, Karlovac, was moral, so he said he came with politics, that he had to leave with the politics and unfortunately he wasn't the president, and the City Committee was disbanded. As for my fellow Drempetic, I have great respect and respect for him. And I think he's extremely moral and that's exactly why he said and left.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46306	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46307	I'll just try to say with a few examples, convince you that, that's not exactly what you're saying. At the state level, there is a director of HT, Croatia Airlines, and I still can't think of it. In Split, if, in Split, we were part of the government for 7 years, I assure you, no director of public utility companies has been removed. The ones who were left behind. If someone's gone to another job alone and so on hasn't been removed. It's true, it's true! That's true. You can wave your head. Tell me I'm lying and give me an example. One also left the traffic that was otherwise a member of the ruling coalition. She just changed it inside herself. But no one's been removed. No public utility director while we were in power. And now we'll see. We'll see what our colleagues from Zagreb say. But it's not like that. In principle, you think wrongly, I assure you. And it's not good that anyone, no, it's not about me or you, it's not about logic. Let's get her legal and let's do it. So imagine what that means? It really remembers people then. Let's pass that law was about, about the transfer of power so let's say who all the tribas go so that finally the people are still so they don't rise up at midnight the usher of sleep, jump because they think they've come these, the team to push them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46308	Now, apart from the delicacy of opinion, the verbal delinquent, the perjurer, we have the wrong opinion, according to you. ... So you're saying that, to the representative, he thinks wrong. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well-intentioned, misthinking. [[Intruder: But it's well-intentioned.]] And the esteemed representative Peter Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46309	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd take the chance to call you first, it's a November day to remember the victim of Vukovar. Let me invite all of you together, Mr. President, MPs and MPs to Vukovar where this year on the slogan, "Where shall I look for my son?" From war to this day, HH is doing a positive business. With the chairman of the board, Mr Tomislav Mlinarić, who is a young expert, a desirable European bank associate and has received a high rating for his work and cooperation. They have a program to modernise HH for the European Union. But it wasn't exactly, did this government replace it, it just didn't like those who were told by Mr. Vukic a few moments ago in his presentation that they had just been appointed three months before the government's shift. And normally with their barricades they did it. At the end of the 1990s, the basic idea in the way trains were purchased was the choice of an foreign strategic partner, and TŽV "Gredelj" was to be the bearer and organizer of the domestic industry that would participate with 505 participants in the project. The alternative was the delivery of TLM aluminium products with 50% value of trains. As no agreement has been reached for any solution, the HH administration shall take a decision and appoint a Committee for the Implementation of Public Competition and tender documentation shall be prepared. It also determined the share of domestic industry and the economy of a minimum of 50% investment value. The appointed Commission did not carry out the public tender procedure and there is no written trace of the reasons for giving up the public tender, but rather made a decision on the acquisition of the protracted trains directly by the Bombardier contract to the company without the participation of the domestic industry and the economy, by crediting with the state guarantee. Of the 4 possible variants of the purchase of tilt trains is selected the most unfavourable because the project is not part of the domestic industry and the economy, and a financial commitment is being made for Croatian railways and the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee. Lesin, Debis Lesin, submitted an offer to rent 4 tilt trains "regio swinger" an old VT 611 model indicating the purchase price of a train without VAT of 6 million DM or 3 million euros. At the same time, Germany's railways ordered 200 tilt trains "regio swingr" a new model VT 612, later ordered by HZ, at the price of 5 million DM or 2 and a half million euros per train. During 2001 and 2002, in Croatia's railway negotiations with Bombardier, the price of tilt trains has already been raised to 3 million 875 thousand euros, per train, for the purchase of 5 trains. Finally, in July 2003, a contract for the purchase of 8 tilted trains "regio swinger" was signed at the unit price of 4 million and 63 thousand euros, with the notice of the then member of HZ administration, I will not appoint him, and the train and train directors managed to lower the price of the train by 5% from the initial 4m euros to 4m 63m euros. Over the years, the single price of the tilt train "regio swinger" the new model VT 612 rose from 2 and a half million euros to 4 million and 63 million euros net. For 8 HZ trains, i.e. a million and a half euros or 63% by installation of "catering equipment" 61 thousand per train and "Kernes" by providing a 200 000-euro loan per train. The total unit price of the tilt train is around 4 million 324 thousand euros, i.e. 73% higher. For 8 tilt trains, the difference is 12 and a half million euros or 92 million and 500 thousand kuna, and it is 8 trains from order of 200 trains that the German railways gave to the Croatian railways. The contract on the purchase of tilt trains was drawn up in a way that leaves many questions open, and in the exploitation of the reflection of slope trains, there were many problems. This primarily applies in the manner and dynamics of train payments, tight interest rates, insufficiently defined technical description of trains, open commercial issues, working hours. The Bombardier Service with only 40 hours a week guarantee conditions allow unilateral lifting of guarantee rights by Bombardier, the purchase of spare parts, the exclusive advantage of BT, otherwise BT does not recognise the guarantee if the parts are obtained directly from the manufacturer and technical documentation, are not translated into Croatian. The lack of sales contracts, the delivery of diesel motor-tight trains "regio swinger" is precisely through open commercial issues. Let's just take the chairs in the seats of 250 thousand euros, the auxiliary clutch 169 and a half thousand euros, and so I don't count it all. In total, with tight interest, one million and 261,000 euros. The talks with Bombardier have managed to reduce the claims first to 700 thousand euros, then to 461 thousand euros, and currently there are controversial claims of around 350 thousand euros. Croatia's railways paid BT 35,000 200 euros for failing schooling. This is another example of how the former government spent taxpayers' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46310	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Mlinaric said that this government has not replaced the former president of the Croatian Railways Administration, Mr. Mlinaric. It's not direct, we can agree on that. However, if we know that the Assembly of the Croatian Railways, Minister Kalmeta, that members of the Supervisory Board are mostly ministers or state secretaries then not necks but necks, they have just replaced Mr Mlinaric. Why? It remains for all of us to think. Since I have closely followed this inspired display of yours, I would ask you, Mr. Mlinarić, to tell me, to me and everyone else, what is the real price of tilt trains because of these numbers neither I nor these colleagues around me have been able to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46312	Thank you. Now we've finished our individual debate. HSP MPs' club, respected representative Tonci Tadic, a five-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46313	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development. This modern interpretation of the development, i.e. about stopping Croatian railways, is in fact entirely about how to finance the development of Croatian railways. I will here and now, as last night, repeat the famous anecdote with Julia Andreotti when speaking about the development of Italian railways said that there are only two basic types of lunatics, one who believe that they are Napoleon, and the other who believe that railways can be operated without loss, or that they can be allowed to operate without recovery and without loss. So it is quite clear that every railway in the world is operating with a certain form of subsidy, whether it is now through the subsidized fuel price, whether by giving up the state of certain taxes, whether through state investment in infrastructure, or in a rolling stock it is to see. But no one, literally, in the world thinks that railways as one important system leaves themselves alone, so we'll see if they get out of the problems they're in. The difference is only in the approach methodology. Should we finance the railways with special fuel costs or finance them directly from the state budget? That's all it's about. Here is often mentioned this number of 60 limes per litre of fuel. However, the fact is that in the meantime we built highways in the same way because it was acceptable until it was suddenly unacceptable for the railways. It is as if the railways for the development of Croatia are less important than highways. Although we all know that there is not a single port in the world that wants to compete with others without having a good connection to the railroad, whether it's a riverport or a seaport. It is also extremely hypocritical to discuss the effects of the current introduction of 60 limes per litre of fuel for railway development as long as the fuel price structure is as unusual as it is today. So today we pay VAT not only for the basic price of fuel, but also for excise duties and for the fees for roads and for all other charges. In all of this, VAT is still on, which is indeed an entirely incorrect way of calculating. And until that changes, it's really hypocritical to talk about whether this kind of financing of railways is good or bad in this interpretation. So we support this interpretation. We would be far happier if this part of it, this 3rd point, had been written a little more carefully and talked about the need to redefine the price of fuel in Croatia. But it is crystal clear one thing, that for various reasons the Government is trying to list Croatia lost 9 months from 2004, late with the modernisation of railways, until the rebalancing of 867 million kunas. This delay is unfortunately irreparable. Our next year expects liberalisation, but with it and modernisation, and I am afraid of the privatisation of Croatian railways. And few countries, maybe we're the only ones who've worked at the same time. Instead of preparing Croatia's railways for competition so far, to modernise them, to stop arguing about models rather than really investing money in keeping the HH in open international competitions tomorrow, to keep its concessions for driving on major transport corridors. If those corridors are taken away from us by strangers, you are angry with our ports, as well as with the entire Croatian metal industry, which is partly funded by the maintenance of HZ. Therefore, the financing of railways in each country is financed by a whole range of other branches of activity and is of strategic importance. And I repeat, don't ever think the railroads won't have to be financed. It's just a model thing. And lastly, it is highly unacceptable that we have not received regular reports on the state of HZ since 2000, but this kind of interpretation must be derived from the government and the HZ Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46314	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic, 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46315	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's to this two-day debate on Croatian Railways, I personally appreciate that, despite my gentlemen on the left, they won't believe me, that it's also good that it came and that it's at a good time. The state budget is being prepared and we will all see how much we take care of the Croatian railways. We all agree that Croatian railways should certainly be modernised, to become competitive, and what I said in my presentation, and highways, but more to become competitive with European corridors and those who will certainly want Croatia when it enters the European Union to get these changing corridors for their businesses. So modernization that certainly, but also modernization with domestic operation. We need to be honest with ourselves that we don't have the means to modernise. To raise loans for modernization, and the former government, this government will be forced to do the same. Often these are also unfavourable loans, credits in which the creditor requests to operate, for spare parts to be installed from imports. And that's not good, but we need to understand that it's our reality, and we should all change that together anyway. What happened on the track, don't think, I don't really blame anyone. We all know that the remont of the stripes is done by the Austrian company "Sitelski", that the tracks from the Czech Republic, that the stone was imported, did not import. We know in what way, that Croatian was good will and blunt hack. When we enter the modernization of a traffic corridor, we certainly need to enter the studio. Studioically with complete transport documentation from the office and station and everything that follows such a large infrastructure facility, and also solve the problem of transport during the railway prison on that stock. With this mode of transportation from buses, uncomfortable buses, from Ogulin to Sttori, to Split, we lose passengers, we lose goods. A man simply doesn't know when he'll come and when he'll plan. We're losing passengers for the future. They're losing faith in the railroad, in the faith, and we're losing goods. Roba's looking for other corridors and when she finds them, it's hard to get them back. So, modernising towables, we have a billion kunas in spare parts. We don't need to blame ourselves, so today we have in Hungarian, Polish, Czech, pretty Brene, Samantha's tow. Let's decide once that we have one tow, that we have type locomotives. Then we will certainly reduce the spare parts and as such modernised we will certainly enter and be competitive in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46316	Thank you. State Secretary Drazen Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46317	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I say a final word, please consider a few answers to the questions that have been addressed directly to me. Dear Parliamentarian Mr. Jurjevic asked me a question, asking me to explain my statement yesterday. If they were to invest five billion kunas at this point, if they were to be used for railways so they couldn't spend it. This was said not in this way and in the context when I was talking about investment in infrastructure and then I said that because of the restructuring that is necessary, HH should prepare to be able to use the money rationally. And after that, I made a statement about a billion kuna. And that I was right about the fact of real investment in infrastructure over the last few years when it was realized in 2000. 139 million, and 2001. 169, 2002. 269, 2003. 789, 2004. 960 million kuna and in 2005, it's not over yet, it's going to be a little less than 2004. So no amount was up to a billion kuna, so with full responsibility I stand behind this statement. But I also added that through restructuring, Croatian railways should be prepared to absorb even more money, and that the government should make sure that these money is provided. Furthermore, the question of the game of numbers has also been raised about whether someone has done something, and who has paid? I think we need to read five more figures about it, but very precisely when they were, so what year, how many technical checks were made on the remounted stripes and what perspective. Well, here we go. In 2001, at 9 kilometers 748 meters, in 2002 at 45 kilometers, in 2003 at 19 kilometers, in 2004 at 114 kilometers, in 2005 at 73 kilometers up to now, it is currently 94.5 kilometers in remounted, and the prospects from the plan raft for the future period say that in the next period of 2006 to 2010, the average will be just over 100 kilometers a year from the completed railways. So I can't get in, I don't want to go into games of numbers when something's done, when it's paid, but more than this really doesn't have to say that to prove what the real state of things is. For information about the duration of the journey of the train from Split to Zagreb which you said you would travel if it were 4 and a half hours, it is currently 5 hours and 15, 5 hours 20, 5 hours 22 minutes about, it is significantly less than it was 2 years ago, but it is also much more than it will be in 2 years until 2007, when the complete remont of the railways, the railways will be finished, and this remont can of course not work as you all know who you have worked or who have connections with the profession, can not work 365 days, can work a limited number of days a year and under specific conditions of running traffic. The next question that was asked and addressed directly to me was the question of the purchase of freight trains that should be made by Djuro Djakovic. It is here to say that at its meeting in Slavonski Brod, the Croatian government was in favour of the conclusion of the contract, that afterwards the HZ Board adopted a Decision on Consensus, or a Decision on the procurement of 300 new freight wagons, i.e. the investment of 220 million kuna with VAT, that after that the Supervisory Board agreed to the decision of the Croatian Railways Administration, and that at this moment, it was in the course of granting consent to the Croatian Railways for Credit Liaison and when that last act was resolved, then the job could be completed. So much for direct questions I've been exposed to. To conclude, I would like to say first that there can't be two truths. There may be two opinions, but there is one truth. Gentlemen, the numbers are true. I've brought them out, and they need to draw conclusions that I won't interpret any further. Discuss what a few sentences about practice need to be said. In the last two years of the administration supervised by the government's Supervisory Board appointed by the government, they have broken down several bad practices. We interrupted the practice of increasing the number of employees in the system, 600 less this year, with the consent of stimulating and voluntary will be the result of the end of the year, there was also greater interest, this process of voluntary, agreed, stimulating reduction of the number of workers without social earthquakes will continue in 2006. We also interrupted the practice of direct contracts. The fact that in 2003 630 million kuna investments were realised from, I apologize, a billion 280 million realisations of the investments where the purchases were taken out, and that these purchases were realised with 630 million kunas as direct purchases speak for themselves. The comparison with 2004 and 2005 is next. Out of a total of 2.3 billion kuna purchases, only 160 million kunas were made by a direct contract, so that is one practice and one twist that results in a significant change from these figures. The realisation in the planned funds, which was 80 per cent in 2004, was also increased and in 2005, it was slightly lower, and in 2003 it was 34 per cent. For this reason, this debate on interpletion has often been led, unfortunately, as if the new task on which it is being suggested would not need to be returned, as if the budget had only one side or as if the revenue side of the budget was boundless, so it was being led beyond the context of the reality of this moment and the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located. 3.6 billion for Croatian railways this year, slightly more in 2006, 4.7 billion for Croatian railways last year, the figures that speak for themselves are enough, and I said it might be convenient to repeat it once more, so I said before for 2004 now I will say about 2005. It is 3.6 billion is approximately at the level of separation for defence in the Republic of Croatia in this year, and 10 to 15% higher than for the entire Ministry of Interior in the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, we haven't given up modernization, we've stepped up investment, the numbers are saying that. We have not stopped development in infrastructure or structural reforms that, we have spoken all the time and argued them in what and how they are implemented. These structural reforms should, of course, include reforms concerning both privatisation and privatisation, so a very difficult part of privatization of currently dependent societies, i.e. subsidiaries of daughters. Finally, I would like to thank you in some way even for encouraging this debate, so I would even like to say that it was the perfect opportunity for one revision done in the past period and for presenting everything that will be done in the coming period, and in the future, by the end of this year, there is still a law on separation waiting for us, in this Parliament in the first half of the following year, the National Infrastructure Plan of the Croatian Railways, which is also to be adopted by this Assembly, at the final stage of production and the National Road Crossing Plan, which in the next thousand 500 transitions, is currently 30% protected, 70% unprotected, so 70% will be protected, and 30% of the unprotected, with 700-50 million investment. Also in the final phase and the modernisation programme, i.e., I apologize, the programme of the restructured Croatian railways that should be, which is 5 years old, which will also be adopted in agreement with international institutions, because we also have to take care of it. I thank everyone together for my constructive contribution and look forward to this kind of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46318	Thank you very much. And final review, the representative of the promoter, the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46319	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter, we can really be pleased with the previous debate and I thank all the participants in the debate, because I think in the conclusion of this debate we can say that we have sent two messages one positive, one negative message. What are the positive messages? The messages, however, say that we were all heartbroken to the need for the accelerated development of Croatian railways in the Republic of Croatia and there was no debate contrary to that position. So, the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Government estimate that the future of transport in Croatia, stronger investment and stronger transport and passengers and freight through the Croatian Railways, and I think these messages are important for the employees of the Croatian railways, but that these are messages and other branches of the economy in the Republic of Croatia because they can simply count on their stronger development thanks to this definition. Who are the others in the Republic of Croatia? When we talk about traffic then it is certainly in the first place of the Croatian ports and that of the Adriatic, along the entire Adriatic and the river ports which should have a very important function for transit cargo, I would say transport of transit cargo and combination of river and rail cargo. This is how we responded to Europe, which has made it very clear that the future of transport is to lower costs, to protect the environment, just to develop a river, sea and rail burden, and I think it is a valuable message of debate over our interpretation. But one more thing. The battle for development, the battle for the growth rate, the growth rate of economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, which is important to us because it solves certain financial problems, budgetary problems, because the growth rate will not only provide direct railways but also other participants, as it is evident that the Croatian industry can provide very strong support to Croatian railways in this development. If we're going to talk about builders, we want to stress the importance of "Djura Djakovic", "Concar", a railway workshop in Čakovec, not to speak directly about "Gredel" which is a significant exporter and producer, an industrial producer who can very much help Croatian railways in this development. Therefore, the battle for economic development is also a strong message that the development of Croatian railways, please choose to prepare your development projects. All of this is what we have clearly defined and sent a message in these two days, and we can certainly be content with it in some way. What is not to be satisfied with, and what is the result of this debate that must not be proud of? European declarations, European policies say revolutionary investment is needed. What does that mean? Strong financial investments. Their messages are clear. Investments should be given, provided by authorities, authorities that are participants in major changes when it comes to railways. Whether we can be satisfied, whether we are on the trail of European policies, that is what we have to say we are not. One of the very ugly messages that we've sent is that we've shown how many policies we don't have common goals, how much we can share, how much we know to fight, how much we can pass on to each other, how much we want to prove that we're more successful and we've left the fundamental goal. And the main goal is the explosion of development in the railroad, and that's what we unfortunately showed that we haven't changed significantly after two years of sitting together in these benches. That's negative. It's negative for workers, but it's also for railway workers, but I'd say in the rest of the economy. We are not simply up to responsibilities because you will allow the explosion of the development that Europe and European policies are calling for. We have unfortunately shown that we will not be in this, unfortunately, always on the same goals because we are significantly outwitting ourselves politically. Our desire when we proposed this interpretation had just run away from being the ones to outwit ourselves. We don't want to compare ourselves with who contributed more or didn't. We want to make it clear that we will be with our government but let us try to agree on how to affect stronger and stronger investment because it is important for railways but also important for other parts of the economy. And our message in this final word is that we will be with the Croatian government with all the risks of stronger investment in the Croatian railways. What's it got to do with us? The last document on Croatian railways we have is the investment plan, the 2003-2007 Modernisation Plan. In two years, we don't realize it. He's not being realized. We must compare in that part. Not the former and current government. The only document that gives us the opportunity to tell us whether the government is on that explosive path of development or not. We estimate it isn't. No document or secretary of state has allowed us to follow that. Why? Because it's 15 billion investments in four years, 15 billion. We don't invest. The management that left didn't invest. It's obvious it's an out-of-date document. What does the government need to give us? The government needs to give us a new document, new administrations that will speak in how many years and how much money to invest. And if that document says okay, we didn't make it to 2003-2007, we'll make it from 2006 to 2009, 2010, we need 12 billion believe we'll accept it. But then we'll say 12 billion, 15 billion, 18 billion. We need that document. We no longer have the documents, or we have a document that doesn't come true. The comparison with the document also shows that the government does not follow the way of investment in fast, strong development and modernisation of Croatian railways. That document was never compared to anyone in the government. Therefore, I believe that the budget is ahead of us, I do not know how much time there is for the new administration to try to propose a new plan for the development of the modernisation of the Croatian railways, but we need this document to see what investment is in the Croatian railways, which is the future for the railway to be at the level of competitors to other European railways. Therefore, if the second effect of this interpretation is achieved and it is that the Government gives us a new document in which to say a year or nine months or more, we will not now compete in that part to try to prove how lost it is, but that we have to get a new document to try to see what the future developments of the Croatian Railways are. And at that point, we'll be aware of the problem of what's also highlighted in this interpretation and these are the means of modernising the railroads. Why the means? If 15 billion are currently to be invested in the next four years, we can't secure them without long-term loans, credits for 20 to 25 years. The loans and Croatian railways will not be provided without the means. A purpose that will show that a billion or a billion 400, a billion kuna per year over the next 20 years will cover investments over the next four years. That's why we agree with HSP that we need to talk about the means of purpose. Without it, the Croatian Railways will not receive long-term loans. He won't get it, and that's what we want to say. Rapid investment, fast investment in short-term need dedicated funding. What kind of means did we propose? From excise duty or from fuel tax. Today we say we don't need to increase fuel prices. No, redistribution should be done because of those 60 June when we proposed it in the Railway Act 30 should be by reducing spending in the budget and 30 by increasing fuel prices. Since, meanwhile, 2.5 kunas have increased fuel prices, that VAT alone has increased over 40 lipes, no more price increases are needed, just redistribution of all 60 kunas from the redistribution. ... A different pricing policy as our colleagues in HSP say, but we found that proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We accept that the Government can say, not that, but give new, other funds from billions to half kuna, which should be intended for the development of Croatian railways. It's designed for development. Because this is why international financiers will give the necessary funds for rapid growth, development of Croatian railways. So we suggested a variant that was adopted in this House in 2003. If there's another choice, we'll talk about it. But we need the means to invest from 10 to 15 billion, which we estimate is necessary in the short term in the Croatian Railways. And that's why we think we'll probably be back on this subject. Croatian railways are obliged to give a new medium-term investment programme. The new administration, I hope, will respond in a short time, so we still have to discuss Croatian railways. And the moment we find this dedicated source of railway development, I believe that even these conflicts between us that are politically colored who was more successful, who gave it more or less, will no longer cause controversy among us. When we all agree together that the means of purpose are needed. What does that mean? And further victims of burdens and taxpayers and other branches of the economy, but that's what we need to understand. Croatian railways also set out the cost of road traffic, for their competition. Investment in roads, so it is competition for Croatian railways and they give for that competition, because it is the creation of the entire infrastructure base of the Republic of Croatia. As SDP and as promoters, we want to say very clearly, the restructuring in the railway is the most done in the section that falls on the burden of workers. Issuing 6 thousand employees from the queen, from basic activities, in related societies that must find their own way in the markets was the biggest contribution of employees and trade unions in the Croatian Railways. It's the most difficult process everywhere. When we look at Croatian examples, it was the hardest. He went through the railroad without a lot of trouble. Why? So because employees understand if they want to gain understanding of the entire Croatian economy, understanding of taxpayers in Croatia must show by example how important the fate of Croatian railways is to them. And they showed it. All the controversy in privatisation, in me would say strengthening these related companies in the markets, that's the problem of management, that's not the problem of worker, that's the problem of efficiency of management, but the workers showed their part quite well. It is up to us to appreciate this and to respond to these workers as soon as possible with a decision on the project's height and the provision of specific funds. Personally, it is difficult for SDP and our proposings to continue the restructuring process to go from layoffs to workers, regardless of their severances rather than further creating opportunities for these workers to find a job on the market and in battle, I would say a market position with other competitors. Because it's a far greater obligation for the owner, it's a far greater obligation for administrations, and I would say a challenge for workers who can no longer find their solution in the price of kilometers, tons or in the price of a ticket for each passenger. It is our suggestion to both the Croatian government and the administration to try to find related societies, market positions, don't send people to shelters or to retirements with severances, it's far more difficult, it's far more responsible. And that's what we want to sort of end this debate and conclude. Many wondered why the interpretation was very simply not our goal of politicising or proposing the shift of ministers or government, our goal was to change policy. Policy change is a very responsible debate on this, meaning the responsibility of this Parliament in the debates. When we talk about policy changes, it should only follow in the distribution of funds and the finding of means. I believe that this is only the beginning of the debate on the railways and that in the coming year we will very much continue and provide dedicated funds for the Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46320	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46321	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Linic's guilty claim that he's been lost for a year, that can only be said by a man who completely ignored the figures that the secretary of state said yesterday. It's interesting that, in fact, in four years, it's not intended for rapid development, four years before the government. This rapid development has been shifted for the next period, as the normal government that brings the budget brings it towards reality and others, another incorrect assumption is that the problem of workers being transferred to dependent companies has been resolved. A series of uncompetitive companies were created, and as you said, Mr. Linic, let them fight. I think the workers will be grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-09-0.u46322	I'm closing the debate. Second. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for stopping the development of Croatian railways. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, I am voting on the following conclusion: Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is refused for the purpose of stopping the development of the Croatian Railways proposed by 24 representatives of the SDP Club. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. The conclusion reached by 67 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 25 against.
