ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47172	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. And this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, comes before you as a final proposal in the second reading. The State Judiciary Council has the authority to appoint judges, to resolve them and to actually carry out a strict procedure against them. The State Judicial Council consists of the persons appointed by this House of Commons. However, the amendments, i.e. during the application of this law, showed one need to make the State Judicial Council more operational. So let me just briefly tell you what are the important changes and additions to this law. Newspapers shall be introduced in the first row in that section relating to the conduct of a tight procedure. Why? Because, according to the current law, the State Judiciary Council has conducted a strict procedure in full, which has contributed to the longevity of its duration and the danger of becoming obsolete in procedures and of course has caused frequent public dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction. Therefore, these amendments and additions are proposed to set up a tight council to carry out the evidence procedure and councils which then, in full composition, make decisions on the strict responsibility so that the Council is composed of presidents and two members. It also extends the limitation period for a tight procedure from two to three years. It is also amended as regards the powers of the Committee for the Justice of this Parliament, that it evaluates only those candidates who fulfil the conditions for judges and not all candidates for those who do not meet those conditions and the uniform provisions relating to the distance of the judge from his duties and determines in particular that the judge to whom the State Judicial Council has imposed a presumption may not be appointed to a higher court before the expiry of a period of two years from the date of power of the decision to which the sentence has been imposed, i.e. if a fine has been imposed before the end of three years. Similarly, since this practice has shown that the provision has been unspecified, it is arranged that who can apply for the vacancy of the judge and the reason why the judge can be away from his duties. It shall also be determined that if the judge is temporarily away for a period of three months, that period may be extended to the end of a tight procedure in which he is entitled to receive not full but only one half of the salary. So all of these important, all of these changes are actually heading towards facilitating, on the one hand, the work of the State Judicial Council in this particular segment relating to the conduct of specific procedures to which the law is laid down, the strict procedure in the first row against judges. What changes are made in relation to the first reading of the law are objections and proposals sent by individual committees or by individual representatives so that there is no more in this law, it is re-returned to the Law on Courts, the provisions on the appointment and resolution of judges. It is also accepted that the Committee on Justice and some of the MPs agree that the number of members of the State Judicial Council from 11 members to 9, so as to reduce the number of lawyers and university professors, and that number has been returned to 13. Some provisions of this law have also been clarified according to these suggestions in order to make it as clear as possible. Thank you for your attention. So important about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47173	Thank you very much. Committees, legislation, judiciary, human rights and the rights of national minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47174	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council is before us. As the State Secretary has already said, the State Judicial Council is a body appointed by the Judges, who resolves judges, who conducts strict proceedings against judges and makes firm measures, and therefore this is one in our judicial system, a very important body and therefore all the amendments relevant to the Law on the State Judicial Council are important. In the point that was before, we talked a lot that the Law on Courts itself was not revolutionary, that it would not bring any revolutionary changes so that we could say for this law that if it wasn't the revolutionary one, and I don't think that in the judiciary there should be anything revolutionary but that we actually have to carry out the changes that we've actually started and improvements that we've already started. Yes, and this is a small segment that is being touched, but very important I would say, because this law defines more precisely the responsibility of judges, more precisely defining the strict measures and making certain improvements in the conduct of tight procedures. As unhappy as people are, of course, because a million and a half unsolved cases are, a million and a half are lagging behind, as many people are unhappy and that little individual is often angry and thinks that the judge who runs his case is untouchable, that that judge put his case somewhere in some box and drawer and will deliberately not get him out, yet that's not so. The judges are subject to strict proceedings, but the questions of responsibility are still being raised against the judges. I must say, in fact, that three years ago, I was in the Supreme Court, and right in the hall that was in front of the court, in fact, in which the State Judiciary Council was held, I can say that there was quite a lot of traffic where there was a number of judges with their lawyers, defenders because they were just conducting tight procedures, and when I talked to my colleagues about what it was, many of them were exactly about what their colleagues were pointing out here, that there were situations where the case was being so slow-mindedly conducted, in fact, that he was going into obsolescence, especially in criminal cases. And really, there were a couple of cases there. And here, in any case, I think that this provision, which now defines these tenuous acts, I think it's worth reading and I'm going to say Article 20 is normised that the judge is responsible for the actions committed. The strict acts are: abuse of the position or overrule of the official authority, disorderly conduct of the judicial office, conduct of the service, business or activity incompatible with the jurisdictional duty, call for disturbances in the work of the court which have a significant impact on the functioning of the judicial authority, violation of official secrecy in connection with the conduct of the judicial duty, damage to the reputation of the court or judicial duties in another way. For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this Article, the strict procedures for the prudential action referred to in point 2 of this Article shall be initiated, in particular if the judge does not, without a justifiable reason, draw up and send a court ruling, if the Judicial Council has assessed the work of the judges as a negative assessment, if, without a reasonable reason, the number of decisions taken by the judge is significant below the average in the Republic of Croatia for a one-year period. So the judges' responsibilities are highly insisted. We have also seen previous laws on courts introduce a judicial inspection that will monitor, which will control specific cases whether these cases are conducted knowingly. I must admit that when I read this law and I came up in my first reading with the idea of putting on an amendment so that in Article 20(3) concerning the disorderly conduct of a judicial duty, let's say if the judge unwittingly conducts proceedings and without justifiable reason does not draft and send a court ruling that it is actually a messy conduct of a judicial duty. But then when I saw point 3 that says: If, without justifiable reason, the number of decisions the judge made during a one-year period is important below the average in the Republic of Croatia, then it is also treated as a disorderly behaviour. So unwittingly if it leads, of course it won't have enough and necessary number of those decisions in a year. In any case, in the light of what I am saying to insist on the responsibilities of the judges, I think that the change being introduced and Article 23 of this law is, so that both the council and the staging body are introduced as the authorities of the tight procedure. Because it is really unnecessary for all 13 members of the State Judicial Council to, in fact, deal with the fact that it is possible, as under this law, to propose that this is done by the Stegovno Council of Three, by the President and by two members appointed by the State Judicial Council. So I think this law is one bit of a mosaic that's been in agreement since two years ago when we've changed certain procedural laws. And what I actually said, so I'm going to try to get a hold of you in this debate. It wouldn't be good to get a message out of this discussion if our judges were bad. I think our judges are good. We're primarily holding here, we're primarily here holding a decision on what laws these judges are going to be judging by because that's what's really important. We must say that there is one long-term methodology of work. The earlier Law on Prosecution and other procedural laws really allow for a number of opportunities actually used by the parties themselves very often from abuse. And that is why it is necessary, that is what my colleague Kovacevic used to say earlier, it is important to influence and it is important to change, to find the right solutions in the procedural laws. When procedural laws lead to the possibility of abuse of these procedural powers being reduced to the least possible extent, it will be much easier for our judges to conduct such proceedings. I said, before the main debate, it is possible to prepare this main debate in such a way that the main debate will no longer be able to switch balls and play, so to speak, ping-pong. In this debate one piece of evidence, on the second discussion of the next evidence, and then there the third debate of the doctor's confirmation cannot come and, of course, the procedure enters at 4.5 years. It's something that's really inadmissible, but I don't think we can blame our judge for all this. But we must create a normative framework that will make such things impossible. What's now being said as a strategy of the judiciary, I think there are very good things and I think it's also well received in public. The information of land books. The secretary of state said, which is a very significant piece of information, we and the Law on Land Books where we have done and led to the fact that land-book reference can be resolved in these proceedings. What did that lead to? It led to a decrease in the number of backlogs for 110 thousand items. It's a big deal, it's a big deal, and I think we're going in the right direction and the justice is going in the right direction. This is one law that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will definitely support and the aim of this Law is indeed to make rules on the responsibility of judges, to be clearer, to be more precise, and to make the procedure in which this tight, procedure in which this strict procedure happens to be faster, to be more effective. And that's by introducing a tight council anyway. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47175	Thank you. HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47176	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If this law was previously discussed by some participants in the debate is unambitious, this law is even less ambitious. The law is a technical type, it doesn't suggest anything radically new, but it should be commended because it's directed in the right direction. It focuses first and foremost on improving the possibility of obtaining a more responsible judiciary and more responsible work in the judiciary. Whether we look at it as half-empty or half-full of glass is now a matter of attitude. Whether we are currently in the mood of optimism or pessimism, but according to the executive authority we should generally trust. The Executive Authority shall carry out the tasks this Parliament has given. Until it's proven that he's doing them wrong, he's doing them right. The establishment of a Council of Discipline seems to me to be the most significant segment of these amendments and the addition of the Law. So, one special body, a new body that will make it impossible or intended to make it impossible for an infinitely strict procedure that the state pays for, and no one benefits from. So these tight procedures, such a tight procedure, are completed in three, four years. Meanwhile, the judge gets paid, doesn't do anything, eats the donkey wolf, and the damage done is great. Such a body should speed up the tight process and bring them to an end in one of those reasonable deadlines that we discussed in this law that we had just finished the discussion. The deadline has been extended to initiate a tight procedure that reiterates responsibility, therefore, that the very fact that it has been 6 months since such an act that requires the strict procedure to be initiated does not put into stalemate but is somewhat longer. Such intensity reiterates responsibility. In the procedure, in the conduct of a tight procedure and in the situation where the judge is suspended gets half the salary, which is fine, especially if this procedure is reduced in this way. The question is, what about interest? It doesn't say anything in there. If it is found that the procedure has been initiated for no real reason, then the judge shall be free of responsibility, whether the half he is to receive is interest. I guess, I guess by some other regulations, but it doesn't say in here. In the article, now a little specific about some articles since this is a second reading. Article 1 amending Article 3 describes the function of the Committee on Justice. I don't quite get it, maybe that's it, maybe there's something going on, but I think things should be clearly written. Why does the Justice Committee have to propose to all candidates for election if they meet the requirements? That is, what is the function of that Justice Committee. In this situation, the Justice Committee is an administrative body that accepts the fact that someone has already established that candidates meet the requirements and that such a list of candidates is forwarded to the vote. I don't think it's necessary if it's an administrative procedure, let's get it administrative. If this is a decision-making process, let's give the decision-making option. Therefore, that the Committee on Justice can and does not have to refer all candidates to further procedures. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The law and similar situations are repeated. Therefore, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament will give its opinion only on candidates who meet the requirements of the judge. And they will give an opinion, i.e. they will confirm their opinion on all candidates who meet the conditions for selecting a judge. If he confirms his opinion for all candidates, what is his function in this situation? Article 8 amending Article 20 The law refers to the launch of a tight procedure and in paragraph 3. 3. is spoken if, without a reasonable reason, the number of decisions taken by the judge during a one-year period is significantly below the average in the Republic of Croatia. It would be good if the same formulation had been applied in the previous law, and it would also be good if the word "important" had been explained. Because apparently, someone will always be below average. So there's an average if it's not someone below average, someone above it. So the word "bitally" should, I think, be, say, specific or even quantified. In Article 15, Article 28 of the Law is amended and conveniently, it is said that the decision must be taken and sent to the parties within 15 days of its adoption, which shall be commendable. I don't understand why it's not a universal principle, why are judges in this strict procedure in a different position than Croatian citizens? The judge makes a decision, and the citizen gets that decision after a month, two, three, three, and from there, these millions, or hundreds of thousands of procedures that are well delayed and due to dispatch. If such a short, fair and good time can be applied to judges, why can't it be applied to everyone else? Article 16 amending Article 31 of the last sentence of paragraph 2 states that the judge will be temporarily vacated from his duties at the time when the authorising applicant so requests. So as soon as an authorised applicant requires a judge to step away from the scene. I think the President of the Court's authority should be there, that the President of the Court should actually have the authority to decide whether or not the authorising officer is absolutely right. Article 31 is amended as follows: I think that's where the interest I mentioned was supposed to be. Finally, something that may be blasphemous in Article 18, which amends Article 32 in paragraph 1 of paragraph 5, refers to a judge’s resolution when he is 70 years of age. Is 70 years as justified for a judge as 70 years of retirement at 70 years of age for university professors, I'm not quite sure. I think in the '70s, it's supposed to be an exception to exceptions, not a rule like that. But all in all we appreciate in the Croatian People's Party club is that this law is in the right direction, that God knows what and God knows how revolutionary, but in the context of all that is said and in the past law, he will actually take a small step forward. Is the intention of a big step forward really present with this government the best way to see when we come up with proposals to amend the procedural laws? This will require revolutionary steps and we will see how seriously the government intends to enter into the reform of the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47177	Thank you. The HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47178	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's really a technical regulation, more or less, and it's a good thing that the government has again accepted a series of remarks from the first reading of this law, but I have to say a few quite concrete and several principles. When the State Judicial Council was established, it was intended to establish an independent state body that would appoint and resolve judges and conduct tight procedures. I will repeat that part of the debate that I have said under the Law on Courts I have held very responsibly and today I argue that it should perhaps have been there a little braver, more determined, so that part of the judicial inspection that we provided for in the Ministry of Justice should simply be moved to the State Judicial Council, first because of seriousness, and second simply because judges would otherwise experience it. Whether the State Judiciary Council in the lack of professional services or so on cannot solve this problem or not would in this way work out how the Ministry of Justice will do it, I don't know, but I think it would be more meaningful and much more effective. What I would also like to say is not to diminish the importance of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice, when the State Judiciary Council was also established and when the law was first passed, then it was simply intended to involve members of the State Judiciary Council in the process of selecting them first and foremost, it was the first objective and the second goal was to separate it as far as possible from the executive authority. If you take a good look at Article 3 of his paragraph 6, you will see that he is an authorised applicant for members of the State Judicial Council and Minister of Justice. Of course, I do not want to say that the Ministry of Justice should not have any authority over the State Judicial Council as well as the Committee, the committee responsible, which is the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, but I do not think it is good to remain in power, that it is the power of the Minister of Justice to appoint members of the State Judicial Council and I think it is a good thing to remain in power only to the legal colleges filled with their dean, the Croatian bar of attorney through its President and, of course, to judges through the Supreme Court, i.e. President of the Supreme Court. In this way, we, colleagues and fellow MPs, would firmly decide to separate, not just any one, but a very important influence of the executive on the judicial authority. I don't think that's good, but at the end of the day, the Croatian Peasants' Party Club won't be a problem, as I repeat myself to the technical regulation. What I want to say next, and it concerns certain specific things, that we should correct the text. In the first row, it seems to me that this text is a little undernourished. We are introducing a new body that will be part of the State Judicial Council, we are prescribing something more specific, a very strict procedure, but we are not talking about what needs to be a subject of sublegal regulations, so it would be a good thing that the Proposer at least cited them as to what sublegal regulations they need to make, given that this law is indeed substantiated and that it is necessary to adopt such regulations and that may be the lack of this regulation. I further warn of certain provisions, let's say the provision of Article 11(4), where it may be a little clumsy formulation, so you can't see who's appointed by whom, whether the Stegovno Council appoints a State Judicial Council or vice versa, of course, it's clear, but it would be good to write it a little more skillfully. And I warn of, of course, the provision of Article 8, if you carefully Article 8, then you will see that some of the disciplines that are entered into in this law, the offences prescribed by the Criminal Code, and then it was better to simply write that those crimes are described in what chapter of the Penal Code and that because of these crimes, the judge is moving away from judicial duty. In the end, I want to say exactly what I said about the Court Act. It seems to me that this project also took a little braver, a little more determined, to offer something more so that the State Judiciary Council really doesn't just have the function of appointing, resolving and conducting a tighter procedure, that it also has that control function in the form of judicial inspections. I know the secretary of state won't agree to that because right now it's very difficult for technical reasons but we'd be much, much more serious. And I repeat, it is not good to interfere in any way and even in the process of proposing executive power with independent judicial authority, even if only by proposing. I think whenever it's possible it should be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47179	Thank you very much. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47180	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary! So, first of all, starting from the World Bank poll on the corruption of institutions in Croatia and according to their survey in the second place by corruption or so on. The criminal part of the capture of the State is commercial and criminal courts. That's what I'm saying because my colleague Bosnjakovic said, "We have good judges." and Croatian citizens are dissatisfied with the work of these courts. And what's with the sports talk about what it looks like to me? That looks like a situation we've got some good basketball players, but we've got a bad menu, and there's no result. On the other hand, we have good handball players and a good menu, we have results. We've got good football players and a good menu, and we've got that score. Now we come here who's here now the menu. The elector is in this case the State Judiciary Council. But in order for the State Judiciary Council to be a good menu, there's a lot to be done. So, our position has long been known that the State Judiciary Council must have full independence in its work and that its main criterion for selecting judges is individual expertise, its professionalism, integrity and patriotism. So that's the important thing for the menu to be able to choose good judges as part of it. And, of course, it is always a problem, we must conclude that all the authorities in Croatia so far have been directly interfering with the choice of judges either directly or indirectly through the State Judiciary Council by setting up their own people and we already know how all this is done and probably all of this has led us to all of this. On the other hand, why this poll is about commercial and criminal courts being so high in corruption and we're here to blame. Because watch out, the opportunity makes a thief. That means next. We must have precise and clear legal regulations. That's what I was saying at the courts. It means you won't be able to let so-called. discretionary assessment, and then extensive discretionary assessment and team so-called. Discretional evaluations find judges, an opportunity to make him a thief, and what happens happens happens, procedures last for years, some get rid of each other right away. And that's why I say it's important that this part of the State Judiciary Council as a menu be completely independent. We objected, so we have no objection that the Minister of Justice but in terms of administrative participation in the work of the State Judiciary Council and this whole procedure but are always bad solutions and good news that it is now available from the fact that it can be mixed or entered into a measure. It automatically means that the executive authority enters that measure regarding the choice of judges and everything else. And then we get into that situation that we're in right now. So, we do, says counterpart Bosnjakovic, good judges but bad judiciary, bad judiciary according to what they are upcoming and what Croatian citizens themselves feel, especially those who have long run disputes. So it's a good thing there were two readings of this law. Because if that first proposal were the first reading we'd done if it had been passed, then we'd just have some more inconceivable adverse consequences. So, compared to what it was and the position of the Croatian Party Club, the rights not only of the board, because the minister will not always put the club's position on the table, but she will put either prominent experts or something else. So, it's a good thing that motion was withdrawn regarding the composition of the State Judiciary Council, where lawyers and law school wanted to be taken one more. It is good that this variant has given up on the part that this law does not prescribe conditions for selecting judges but only prescribes conditions when one of the judges can be placed on a strict and appropriate procedure. It is also good if someone is away because of a criminal offence from a judicial duty not to get 2/3 but to receive half the salary while away or while there are conditions and normally if it is found that there was no place to suspend or refuse the criminal proceedings, then the whole part of what belonged to him and means that he is essentially illegally away from having the right to get back. So the situation is far better now, and we are at this point, given that it's deviated from those things that were in the first reading, so it's important to move. The HSP club will support this law, but we say, we fight that we have a good menu and that for all the players of the judge we establish the rules of the game that they won't be able to appeal to discretion, so that what's old folk is not happening to make the opportunity a thief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47182	A colleague, Kovacevic, said he was the DSV menu. I'm correcting it as incorrect information. Actually, the menu isn't the only one who chooses players. Much more important is the role of the menu that determines the tactics, which determines the methods, which determines the ways. So the menus in that sense are us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47183	We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I get the impression that we talk the same thing all the time, and we don't do anything all the time. For years, justice reform has been discussed, the need for justice to be reformed. And now what is being reformed through these legal proposals? It's not reformed, but nothing at all. These changes that are offered are cosmetics, pure cosmetics. During the debate on this legislative proposal in the first reading, Professor Josipovic made a nice proposal. He said let's transform that DSV in a way that one-third of that body is made up of people from the judiciary, one-third of the professors of law school, one-third of the people of the association as a public representative. No, I don't. It wasn't considered. The law is sent to another reading without a good comment. And that good observation to carry out that good idea would be a reform. It would mean reforming a system that we all keep saying is wrong and that we all keep trying to keep it bad because nothing will be reformed. So I get the impression we're playing here. The tight councils are now being introduced as some kind of big novelty in all this, and now we expect something important, new to these tight councils. So what are these tight councils gonna do, please? ... until now, I've decided in the strictest of procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to wonder how he did it. And if we're not satisfied with how he acted, then we have to ask ourselves why he didn't do what he had to do. So when we answer the question why do we have to correct that bad fact in the system? And not cosmetics now in... Push some kind of tight council and expect this normative solution to solve the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's compare two columns, for example, two columns, how many cases are unwarranted, for example. in criminal proceedings went out of date, unwarranted. And let's compare the column to how tight the judges were. Those numbers are incomparable. They're incomparable. We'll just analyze those two columns and see that DSV doesn't do what his job is. He does not care enough about making judges work hard, seriously, consciously fulfil their judicial duty. Look, we don't need to generalize in anything, so we don't need to generalize in this case. There are certainly wonderful, faithful, quality judges in the Croatian judiciary. But there are also those who certainly don't deserve to have their own courtroom. And share justice in it. They don't deserve to be part of that most honorable part of justice. Here, when you try to talk about it, when you try to talk about the quality of judges, when you try to talk about the quality of their work then the same objection is always pointed out, always and constantly. Any such analysis, any such sentence, is an intrusion into the independence of the judiciary. I remember the former president of the Association of Judges, Judge Gredell, a great fighter for the very kind of independence of the judiciary by which no one should say anything about the judiciary and who was faced with a strict procedure for the disorderly conduct of duty, not a man solved the files in his courtroom. So when he threatened him with a tight procedure, then he went to the lawyers, what else did he have left? And that was better than coming before the DSV and answering for disorderly conduct of duty. But they seem to be always the loudest, loudest when every analysis of their work is interpreted as an attack on an independent judiciary. Who's calling the judge? DSV. Who, of course, resolves the judge in an orderly procedure? Also DSV. So who's responsible for having at least one judge in the system who has his own courtroom and doesn't deserve it? Who's responsible for that? Minister, of course not. Government? Neither is the government. A council? Neither is the Parliament. The DSV is responsible. And the Minister, Government and Parliament are responsible for laying down rules on which the DSV will be drawn up and have in their hands instruments that will enable judges to assess and be effective, their work and not work, and be effective in that those two columns do not have such different figures. Columns, for example. unresolved files in criminal proceedings that went unwarranted and a column of judges who have therefore strictly responded. It's not just criminal records. Here we have recently had this case that the whole of Croatia has been buzzing about, and even abroad, of course, I am now asking you, as reasonable people. How could it happen that in one banal dispute of insult and slander in civil litigation, a man sued a man for insult and slander, the dispute lasted four years? So who's going to ask that judge for the quality of his work? Not for the quality of his judgment, he could have given me the judgment he wanted. And explain it to her as best she can. Because the quality of his judgment can only be questioned by a higher court, that's clear, that's what we all agree on. But who's going to examine the quality of his work, who's the one who's going to ask him, so good man of God, what four years did it take you to come to judgment on such a banal thing? And did you maybe deliberately make it difficult? And if you are, then brother dear, you can't be a judge. You can't. Because you don't serve here in this system of justice, you cause injustice. You can't remain a judge of someone who neglects their duty that way. Of course it's not just the judges who blame us for our situation in the judiciary. It is certainly the whole system and the whole system should be reformed. And we have been waiting for this reform for a very long time and this reform the Minister promises, and we want to see this reform in the legal proposals that come from the government but we don't see it. We see these small procedures, insufficient, cosmetic nature that nothing in this poor judiciary will solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47185	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47186	Mr President, the Honorable State Secretary, so here I will point out, firstly, that, in accordance with constitutional jurisdiction, i.e. undoubtedly a very important role in terms of the functioning of the entire judicial system, it should be pointed out that we have already heard this in previous discussions and appointed judges and resolved judges but also decided on the strict responsibility of judges all in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the special law. So, the Law on the State Judgment Council, the Law, which we are about to amend, or supplement. Of course, all other articles of the proposed law should be considered in relation to Article 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but also of the provisions of the new provisions of the Law on Courts. We find four basic newspapers, and I think they should be highlighted and highlighted. So, what are the four newspapers that we find in the amended and supplemented by the Law on the State Judicial Council? So, firstly, or under 1st, it's the introduction of a tight council, secondly it's an extension of the deadline to initiate a tight procedure, thirdly determining the height of the salary to a judge who is temporarily away from duty and fourthly, prescribing the procedure for dissuasion of a judge from the conduct of a judicial duty. So, just the things that should be prevented, and they can really do so if they are written in this way, and so they are, to prevent all the anomalies that we have had to monitor in the work of the State Judiciary Council when it has decided on the strict responsibility of judges, for example, that such tight procedures have lasted, we have had opportunities, we have, unfortunately, we have had such a practice for many years, even up to eight years, and let's say, in terms of carrying out this procedure and establishing the responsibility of the judges, we have even such current provisions of the law that the same in terms of establishing their responsibilities retain their wages as if they were working, as if they were still judges who judge in concrete cases. So, all of these newspapers are really things that we really need to solve those problems that we have seen in terms of the work of the State Judiciary Council when it decides on the judge's strict responsibility and in a procedural sense and in terms of making concrete decisions itself against a particular judge in a specific case. Therefore, the provisions of Article 11 of the amendment and of the amendment are laid down by the State Judicial Council under which it is therefore existing as a newspaper of the Council of Discrimination as one of the authorities of the staging procedure, since it is therefore carrying out a cumbersome procedure and proposing to the State Judicial Council a concrete decision itself. Furthermore, the Council shall carry out the procedure, determine the facts and concepts and the proposal for a decision. In the end, the Council takes a decision on the strict responsibility of which it is not related to the Council's proposal. I think we should stress that, too. As a whole, the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Judicial Council on the one hand constitute a solid basis for the economic, efficient and above all fast implementation of the staging procedure, but understood as the procedure of establishing the responsibility of judges for the execution of the prudential acts and the procedural sanctions on the one hand, and, on the other hand, retains all those legal solutions which, in a clear and transparent manner, prescribe the choice of judges by keeping all relevant entities in charge in the procedure of proposing and electing judges in respect of each segment of conduct as a basic principle, and that is indeed the case. So, the principle of expertise and knowledge, and the ethics of a subpoena. This regulation is certainly on the trail of unequivocal reform procedures in the Croatian judiciary, and it removes or eliminates perceived problems that can be summed up as problems of ineffectiveness of the judiciary, reference to the elements of corruption, and a large number of pending court cases. In this respect, it is necessary to highlight, for example, Article 8 which amends the current legal solution of Article 20 of the Regulation. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. Therefore, the strict procedure shall be initiated in particular, firstly when the judge does not, without a justifiable reason, produce or forward a court ruling. Second, if the Judicial Council has assessed the work of a judge by a negative assessment and by a third if the number of decisions, without justifiable reason, which the judge made during a one-year period is significantly below the average in the Republic of Croatia, is to initiate the procedure in order to annul the appointment decision, then the appointment may follow the request. Therefore, they are the entities that initiate the procedure. So, from the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, the Judicial Council, the President of the Court, the President of the High Court, of course by official duty and the Council itself. Furthermore, it is absolutely necessary to support a provision which extends the deadline of two years to three years, which could not be initiated against the judge, which understands, of course, the deadline as an absolute period of limitation, and which should be highlighted by the provision of Article 19 and which states that the State Judicial Council is authorising judges of judicial duty, and the appeal, therefore, does not delay the execution of a solution or has no subsistence significance. Finally, everything seen in the work of the State Judicial Council when the State Judicial Council decided on the strict responsibility of judges, and in terms of better solutions, we are just finding in these amendments and amendments to the laws and all discussions that go beyond these frameworks and do not stick to the essence of the changes and additions themselves, of course, that can be accepted in a certain sense, but they do not refer to the direct or specific content of the proposed amendments. These amendments that are proposed and which we hope to accept in this House of Commons will certainly be the basis, but indeed the basis for all those anomalies that we have seen in the work of the State Judiciary Council when he decided on the strict responsibility of the judges will therefore have a normative basis or, as a body, the State Judiciary Council will have a normative basis for such situations, the unacceptable situations will no longer come. Finally, such proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council should absolutely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47187	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47188	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. True, this law should be observed in that context of its changes and additions. Therefore, the powers and methods of operation of the State Judiciary Council. In this respect, the amendments and additions proposed may be considered technical amendments. Why? The body appointed and resolved by the Judges of the State Judicial Council and the way in which it is appointed by whoever appoints it shall be appointed by the High House unchanged. These changes and additions only make it easier for the State Judicial Council to work the same way and for that part of the work of the State Judicial Council to make it easier, simpler, more accurate, in order to make its work easier in the field of its competence, I repeat. And that was the purpose and purpose of this law. So neither the motionor had any intention nor did we say as the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this law offers something important new in the process of appointing and resolving judges. Croatia is already talking about the appointment and resolution of judges and the body that appoints and resolves it meets standards that require Europe and all recommendations, resolutions and the Council of Europe and the European Commission for a long time. It may be something we do not have to be completely satisfied with, but the fact is that Croatia meets these standards in that segment. Because the standard requirement for judges to appoint and resolve an independent body composed of most of the representatives of the judicial authority. This has been established for a long time in our system by the State Judicial Council appointed by the High House, and in this segment it is not proposed to change or it seems to me that starting from these criteria can change. Other mechanisms and ways of controlling the work of the courts. We here at the previous point discussed this influence and who can influence the work of the courts and in which segment. In this direction, certain changes will go, of course not affecting the independence and independence of the judicial authority. How fluidly this line shows the debate so far yesterday and today, but since we have once again raised the question of judges' responsibilities, including their work, and we have used the sports dictionary, let me just say that, in fact, more reference to the President of the Supreme Court, and I think this applies to all other professions and professions. The situation in the judiciary in general cannot be satisfied and this is repeated every time and whenever a debate on a subject that is related to the judiciary because it burdens us... procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certain shifts have been made and done. When someone tells me that, I take it with a dose of reserve. Although... The composition of the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because I'm still... with complaints of citizens and their perception that their case, their case is not resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So long as that part of the citizens' consciousness doesn't change, we won't and we can't be satisfied. But individual steps, individual measures that already seem to change in total, will lead us to that goal, which will not be overnight. Now, in that segment in which the judiciary, i.e. Judges can answer that question is their professional expertise, responsibility, hard work and I stress, their self-criticalness and objectivity in their own ranks. And as the President of the Supreme Court recently said, any profession including judges is not untouchable. The judges are working, there are a lot of good judges. The interest of the judicial profession is that those who do not do this work knowingly, responsibly, and professionally are somehow called, punished or removed. Each one including the judge must do so on his own. And in that segment are also these amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Because the judges themselves do themselves good if they show by example that they are willing to do some sort of control in their own order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47189	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I'm asking the secretary of state to show up on this amendment. Noting that this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47191	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. Namely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47193	Well, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47194	I'll give you an explanation. Should I?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47195	Explanation yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47196	Give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47197	In the light of the above, it is not a disputed general obligation under the constitutional law that the authorities and judicial authorities are obliged to ensure that members of the national minority are represented by... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they are obliged to do so by taking account of the representation of members of the national minority in the area of jurisdiction of a particular judicial authority or body of the state administration. In this case, a judicial body. And the government, or state, is no one contesting such a commitment. However, the fact is that we are here when it comes to representation of members of the national minority including judicial authorities in a particular contradiction when it comes to seeking someone to plead or not to be declared a member of the national minority. You know that both judges and state lawyers are named on the basis of an open competition and there are difficulties and a problem of how someone asks in advance to plead as a member of the national minority and then to ensure that the State Judiciary Council, when appointed by a judge, state lawyers, takes that into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47198	Peace. Peace, peace. Please state, wait a minute, state your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47199	In fact, the fact is that this is not disputed as obligations under constitutional law but there are indeed objective difficulties that arise from both our need and the principle that we respect internationally undertaken obligations and also constitutional law. And here we have two principles that don't exactly match each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47200	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47201	Thank you very much. This argument, Mr. President, at the very least strange because if there is a constitutional provision that is very clear and if someone is asked of course to be able to state their nationality is not required of everyone, but if someone wants to, and based on it, then statistical calculations, if that is in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional law, then there can be no other reasons for that. So I can't, I can't be the reasons that are of a technical nature and what the reasons are for the ministries that are collapsing with the reasons presented in the Constitution. So here there are, there are very clear articles in the constitutional law and in the Constitution that say there must be a certain proportionality between members of different minorities. I'd like to ask you just a little, excuse me, but we're not able to concentrate until the end of it. So if there are certain constitutional provisions that are very clear, which say there must be a certain liquidity there then we who are on the board, who have brought this, and I ask you to start to respect that one committee adopts a certain article, because otherwise, a certain amendment because otherwise I don't know what the service committees are, means if the Committee has voted a single amendment that is in accordance with the constitutional law, then I can't see it collapsing with certain technical difficulties that the ministry may have in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47202	Thank you very much. I can only give the word, in the debate only to the representative of the committee who tabled the amendment. I can't give anyone else and a representative of the government. It's in the amendment debate. A fellow Pupovac, so you can't discuss this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47203	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47204	Oh, that's good, yeah, yeah, okay. At 18.40, we move on. Here you go. Stanka. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. I'd like an esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac, who asked for a break on behalf of the SDSS Club to take his word for it. Here you go, buddy Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47206	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, in situations like this, a man feels really stupid. In something that looks like one and one someone gives some kind of unsuspecting arithmetical interpretation. In other words, when we do not receive someone very well, we know whether he is a member of a national community or not, and when we need to apply the law, that is the problem. And if this first one wasn't there, we probably shouldn't even have some kind of law that regulates it, but we'd have a good normal state and we wouldn't be discussing it in this House. And since there is no such thing, then the secretary of state comes and tells us that the problem is to know whether or not someone is a member of the national minority, and we all know very well that with judges, we know whether he is a member of this or that nationality, that when in the necessary application documentation, he has brought a certificate of punishment or impunity in that certificate, whether he is a member of this nationality or not. And that's the problem. I do not understand why the Government, after voting on the Committee on Rights, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, where most members of the Committee, including representatives of the opposition, national minorities and representatives of the ruling party, supported this amendment, why the Government still has problems with understanding the provisions of the law and this parent ministry, the Ministry of Justice has problems to understand. If we're going to make a problem here, if we're not going to understand things here, then I really don't understand how we're going to be able to do it with other ministries. If the Department of Justice has difficulty in doing so, then he really doesn't understand what the problem is. And if we know very well that there is a problem that people avoid pleading as members of this or that national minority because of certain circumstances instead of encouraging and removing the difficulties that make it difficult for people to plead, we can't apply the law because we don't know who is who. Excuse me, those who voted for us in the previous elections, Madam Secretary of State, no one asked them if they would be on this list or that list, but on the basis of certain police data, they came from the data needed to obtain the ID on the majority and minority list. It's a problem for you now. If you'd like to change the composition of this House, please. Change it, but you'll do it without us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47207	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will postpone the vote on this final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. ... Well, clearly, before voting on the amendment, before the vote on the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I will also postpone the vote on the final proposal of the Law on Courts because it has a similar identical provision for the Government to take a full and clear position and to finally discuss the very clear application of the Constitutional Law in the choice of a judicial authority. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State on the Judicial Council. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. First, the vote on whether we will vote on the amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 77 for, 3 abstentions, 17 against. So, we'll also discuss these amendments and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47210	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The only amendment of the Government to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council applies and is in fact related to the Law on Courts to the provision of representatives of national minorities when appointing judges to courts to judicial bodies. Therefore, the State Judicial Council as a body which appoints and resolves judges should also be kept in mind, taking into account the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on the Courts to which this principle is discussed, and it is actually related to the amendments which the Government and proposes for the Law on Courts. I am saying this because the amendment to the Government, the proposed amendment, reads: "On the occasion of a decision, the appointment of judges of the Council will also take into account the provision of Articles 74 and 8. Court law.", and it says that the appointment of judges must take into account the provisions of Article 22(4) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, if and that a member of the national minorities may be called upon in the application of an invitation to tender for the vacancy of the Judge... Because of national belongings. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker does not understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47211	I'm opening a debate. Club representatives can, please. Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47212	Well, I'm interested in how you plan on doing it. How do you plan to implement it in practice? That provision is how you'll carry it out because you've vacuumed it. A variant may occur that someone will plead to get a place to be a member of the national minority, let's say in the list of voters or in the MUP is not so registered. So you're not doing it all the way... He can look for five minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are you going to see then? And I'm saying, if you put such provisions in place, then you have to simulate what it's going to look like in the end. So let's say variant B, 5 members of national minorities, different national minorities, not the same minority, and now who you're going to give priority to. And now you get into, say, the M.O.P. records, they have a whole other nationality marked than what they showed up here. Enter the list of voters there is a third group. Do you understand how you plan to do that? We had a situation to remember in the election of a judge, a representative of a judge,...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47213	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47214	They're not blood cells. Don't let the Czechs in. It's not blood cells, it's serious things, it's not conflict of interest, it's serious things. So, we had a variant that the candidate for the Supreme Court who resigned was not put in at all, he just put the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. This was the case in the second case, the law did not require that it should be declared, and the law says that it must, for all these duties, the nationality of the Republic of Croatia is important. I say, I draw attention to it being unexposed and inexhaustible. Now tell me what ratios will be where. What ratios are there going to be? ... No, no, it's not accurate information, it's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47215	Please, colleagues. So please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47216	So this is a thing of simulation, this is a matter of implementation. This isn't a simple thing. Therefore, unexposed and inconclusive is neither what you seek. It's an inconclusive provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47217	Is anyone else answering for a hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 4 abstentions and 6 against, the proposed amendment was adopted. We now have an amendment to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which is referred to the already adopted amendment. Dear Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47219	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47220	Amendment withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Law-making requires most of all MPs, at least 77 votes in favour. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 78 votes for, 3 abstentions, 15 against. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council together with the amendment adopted. We will skip the debate on confirming the decision on amendments and additions to the statutes of the Croatian Academy instead of science, because on the parent board, together with the Government and the proponent of the statutes, there is still an agreement and we will move on to - Final proposal of the Loan Act No. 7307-HR for a project to develop a social care system, between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 373. The Proposer is the Government. We've accepted an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, finance and the state budget. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The social care development project will support the overall objectives, strategies and assistance to Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008, approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 11 November 2004. The World Bank Executive Board also supported 21 December 2004. In particular, the project to develop the social care system will contribute to economic progress through improvement in target, sustainability, quality and efficiency in social care. The development project supports the national poverty reduction strategy adopted by the government in August 2002 and proposes a multidimensional approach to poverty reduction by proposing measures not only limited to the social care system, but also includes action in the field of labour market, employment, education, health and housing. Within assistance, social assistance and social care, the strategy supports decentralisation and gradual deinstitutionalisation of social services and promoting alternatives to institutionalisation in the community, including an increased role of NGOs in providing social care, privatising within social care, introducing guaranteed minimum income and linking it with the poverty line, annual indexing of compensation and social care, improved monitoring of poverty, the introduction of an official poverty line, and the introduction of information technology in the collection and implementation of data in social care. The development of the social care system is a loan for dedicated investments. The loan amount is 31m euros equivalent to 40m US dollars, adding co-financing by the Swedish international agency in a $2m gift shop. The social care development project will strengthen the quality, target and administration of social benefits and services they receive and those who need them most. The results in implementation of the project will be assessed through a series of quantitative and qualitative indicators. Monitoring during the project and during implementation will be carried out by the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The Board of Economic Affairs will assist the data to be obtained within the framework of this project, including data obtained from surveys by the State Statistics Office, data obtained from the computerisation of the compensation management system and data on the provision of social services obtained by surveys to be carried out in pilot regions. The development project will be implemented in 3 components. The first component is an improvement in the provision of social services, which aims to improve the overall social service system in Croatia, starting with prevention by increasing quality in the provision of services until the reintegration of users into the community. Social services will become more effective towards the family and based on the principles of inclusion through the development and introduction of new organisational models in the field of social services administration and social care provision, which primarily refers to the establishment of social care centres and methodological centres, the launch of new innovative community-based social programmes, home transformation, the increase in quality of services, and the reduction of time spent by users receiving services and the introduction of incentives that encourage the financially responsible management of public funds for social services. The first component will be divided into two sub-components called social services programming which are cost-effective, efficient and based on the principle of inclusion and focuses on the introduction of significant improvements in the administration itself and the provision of social services in three counties before those changes are implemented at national level. The second sub-component, titled management and funding of social services, is aimed at helping public sector institutions to use new tools and access with the purpose of achieving the changes envisaged by this project. A programme for innovation and learning will be launched to finance or co-finance initial costs for projects, which will also support new innovative approaches in community care and will carefully assess the experience and lessons that will result in the improvement of efficiency and reduction of expenditure. In the second component, it will work to strengthen the Information Management System of the Department of Social Care. The aim of the component is to improve the administration in the system of cash and non-cash social assistance through the application of a new organisational model in social care centres and through a new information management system that will provide timely and quality data to health and social care staff in order to create, monitor and analyse social policy. The third component is to improve the existing social care institution infrastructure where the Ministry of Health and Social Care estimates that around 70% of homes currently do not meet the basic conditions of public health. Furthermore, in a number of county social care centres, it is necessary to improve infrastructure in order to introduce... stop office model, enables installation of information and network equipment and improves the situation in the center rooms in general, since many of them are in poor condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, as the aim of this component is to improve infrastructure in selected social care homes in order to ensure compliance with the minimum standards in these institutions and thus to improve the overall quality of social services. Improve infrastructure in social care centres in line with the administrative reorganisation of these institutions. There is a very clear need to improve standards in many institutions and therefore a multi-annual programme is drawn up to improve infrastructure conditions in institutions based on an expert assessment of the situation and the need to improve hygiene standards in public institutions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia took the decision at its meeting on 15 April 2005 to open the loan agreement for "The project for the development of the social care system between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". The report on the conclusion of negotiations for the conclusion of the loan agreement was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session on 20 May 2005. On 6 July 2005, in Zagreb, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia and Director of the World Bank for Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria signed a loan agreement "The Project for the Development of the Social Care System between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47223	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Finance Committee and the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative's club, respected representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47224	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty No 7307-HR for the "Project for the Development of the Social Care System between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development", with the final proposal for the Hina Act which the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and maintains a justifiable unification of the first and second readings, as its confirmation is a prerequisite for the entry into force of the same, i.e. to withdraw funds in accordance with the budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is a state guarantee loan and consists of several components. The loan component is $40m, i.e. 31m euros, and a gift from the Swedish International Development Agency of $2m, i.e. a million and 700m euros, as well as from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia of 18m and 14m euros respectively. The ratio of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Swedish International Development Agency and the Republic of Croatia are 66:3:31 expressed in percentages of participation. There are numerous arguments to include the World Bank in the project to reorganise the development of the social care system, and I will list only some of them. The World Bank has gained significant experience in helping governments prepare and implement social care reforms. It brings great and long-term experience into the creation, management of social care projects, as well as coordination between all those who are interested in this problem. It helps the Republic of Croatia to make the welfare system compatible with Europeans through the assumption that we guarantee all residents a level of available resources in accordance with the minimum human dignity, to keep the minimum level of standard of living and when workers are forced to interrupt work due to diseases, accidents, maternity leave, disability or job loss. To ensure minimum resources for the availability of disabled persons and to support their integration, society and economy and to develop a system of cash social benefits available to families with the highest needs. In this reform, the World Bank recognised the good strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia, which aims to create a system of social care that focuses on the user, led by outcome and easy for the user. The project came from basic assumptions, i.e. fundamental objections to the current social care system, and I believe that you will agree with me that it is excessively centralised, over-institutional, undeveloped prevention as well as an active function of the system, insufficient transparency, lack of information connection, poor information from a potential client on its social rights, as well as unadjusted training of employees, are also changing criteria for determining implementation and evaluation of different measures. The Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia, starting before the above mentioned shortcomings, and using the best European examples as an experience of experts from the World Bank UNDPA, government associations, external associates, has developed this programme for the development of a social care system whose results are clear and can be monitored and which is a clear financial plan for the four years 2005 to end 2008. The project aims at high quality social care programmes that use public funding effectively and in order to achieve better results for users. There are three components in the structure of this project. The first component is the reorganisation and rationalisation of the social care system, of course there is no effective social care system without its modernisation and democratisation, which means decentralising social care and social assistance systems, establishing new criteria for social intervention, deinstitutionalisation of social assistance and social care, preventing the institutionalisation of the same and integrated role of social assistance. Of course, the ultimate goal is to achieve the level of efficiency of the system, and we will achieve it if we join those measures to improve the level of information on social rights, raise the educational level of employees in social care, improve transparency and reorganisation of social care systems will be piloted in three counties: Vukovar-Srijem, Zadar and Split-Dalmatia. Social services will become more effective, focused on the family and based on the principle of inclusion, through the establishment of county centres for social care and methodological centres, through the launch of new innovative social programmes, starting with the prevention of pits to increase the quality and target of the same to the reintegration of users into the community, and all with the aim of keeping users as short as possible in the social care system. Of course we have to add home transformation to that. The County Centre for Social Care is something new and will in its activity have an analysis and programming of social care in the county, will be a secondary body of art, will deal with cases in the second degree, will coordinate and professionally assist all welfare centres in the county through a mobile team, will conduct accounting activities, will monitor NGOs and evaluate their work and make contracts with other entities. It is also the appearance of a new methodological centre, nothing new, i.e. an institution that already exists and has the best practice in providing services in the county. It will co-operate with the County Centre for Social Care and provide advisory services in selecting the most efficient and best quality services for the user. It will also help design services, set criteria for selecting them, work to improve services, hire volunteers, etc., etc. Through the programme for innovation and learning for which funds are provided in this loan, which you will acknowledge is something new in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health and Social Care will support all innovative projects promoting care in the community and supporting the transformation of institutional care in line with the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce and prevent institutionalisation and develop alternative models of care for users. Funding and co-financing from this fund is in the form of donations. The second includes strengthening the information and management system of social care through the adoption of a central user register including information on their social assistance, the calculation of assistance and the way in which they are paid to the system, the management of cases, accounting and planning mechanisms and through the service provider database. This concept includes the concept of all in one place, in which all these pilots will apply this concept first and then throughout Croatia. Strengthening the information management system facilitates local work and provides timely and accurate data at national level to the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the purpose of designing, monitoring and analysis of social policy. Component 3 covers improving existing infrastructures in welfare institutions. This will finance the construction of 13 new social care centres. The adaptation of 13 existing centres for social care will be carried out and sanitary and hygiene standards will be improved for more than 70 social care institutions of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, of all the things we expect in the end? We expect a reduction in the institution's reference by 10%. We expect the time that social workers spend on social benefits-related administrative work that will be reduced by 15%. The 10% increase in all targeted social benefits will be. The number of fees will be reduced, I note, the number of benefits regulated by the Social Care Act. 15% more users who receive services through institutionalisation and integration prevention programmes are also expected. Public awareness and user satisfaction will be increased, the time of processing of requests will be shortened, and in all social care centres a model will be applied all in one place. And finally, almost all social care institutions, so in 100% of social care buildings, will meet those national hygiene standards. And precisely for all of this, for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Government's Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47225	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47226	Well, a dear colleague said everything has to be in one place. So I'm correcting. When it comes to social welfare, it must be dispensed by principle of social and other, so it would be far smarter if these 3 counties that were chosen were a public competition. Then it might be the Osijek-Baranja or Bjelovar-Bilogorska or even Istrian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47228	In this government, the Istrian government is out of the question. But let's let it go now. When we have this loan contract No. 7307, first we should thank the Swedish Agency for International Development on the gift we received in the amount of a million 702 000 and 300 euros. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides us with a social care loan of 31m euros, which is about 230m kuna, and the state budget will provide an additional 55% of that amount or approximately 105m kuna. As early as this year 2005, 12 million kuna and 200 thousand kuna were provided in the budget for these purposes. But what does it matter now? It is important to mention what Mrs Lucija Cikeš or Lucija Chikesh said about the most favourable loans Croatia can get on the international money market and secondly, on page 8, there is talk about what this money will be spent on. So, to improve the administrative social assistance system and the other for the infrastructure of these social institutions. My advice would be not to get too distracted when the administration is due, regardless of the fact that our system is ineffective, thus expensive. It should be changed, but what this money should be invested on is primarily the infrastructure of our homes, i.e. social institutions of which some look like we inherited them or were lagging behind from the 19th century. If I'm not mistaken, the secretary of state mentioned in his discussion that almost 75% of those under quotes simply do not meet some current standards. This one should, clearly, say the following. That money must be respectable money. It's almost 350 million kuna. That's not clearly underestimating money. We all agree that the needs of the Republic of Croatia are also enormous, but let us not neglect certain counties, let us not introduce this principle as defined by Mrs Lucia Cikes. All in one place. To each other, just nothing. Don't concentrate that money, gentlemen, just where the majority of the assembly is in position and local authorities, or where the position at the state level matches that at the local level. Because then it turns into punishing certain counties, cities, etc. Clearly, Croatian rule should be the power of all citizens, not just those areas where the majority enjoys it. This is where the secretary of state mentioned two county pilots, didn't list them. Clearly, we immediately removed the possibility that, God forbid, it would be Istrian, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, etc., and then Ms. Lucia Cikes, in front of HDZ, simplified the search that the county might be in play. So we see that it is Zadar, Split-Dalmatia and, well, absolutely justified, Vukovar-Srijemska. Why does the representative of the HDZ Club know which centres will be renovated, where it will be renewed? It even mentioned 70 sanitary knots a moment ago, and the rest of us who also wanted to find, under quotes, their city or county in these 350 million kunas simply can't get to that data. Why should some data be distributed to representatives of the party in power, and the other data, I don't know, in the parliamentary procedure for ordinary opposition mortals. What bothers me about all these loans, to be completely open, are these consulting services too. We'll have to pay a million and 500 thousand euros for them. Of that, a million euros goes for foreign expenditure, side 25, and 500 thousand euros for domestics, means the consultants under quotes "services, expenditures", etc. That, I would even dare say, is a kind of racket of an international bank that is financed, paid, etc. their advisors, perhaps in cahoots and with the peaks of these banks. And it bothers me that we're withdrawing money, and I'm going to say it one more time, and we don't actually know at this point when we're discussing this 350 million kuna, which is going to be spent specifically on that money. In fact, some people also know which sanitary nodes will be equipped, and others we don't know. We know that the needs are enormous, but one such distinction between First and Second Orders I don't think it or at least in the future shouldn't be the practice of the competent ministry. What I'm also interested in are these networks, I'm going to call them, these social institutions. For example. The city of Buzet went alone in the construction of the House of Retired, without any help from the state budget. It may be one, I won't say unique, but certainly one of the few cases in the Republic of Croatia, that one city and builds, we built it, the House of Retired exclusively with our own budgets. On the other hand, for a year now, we have been asking the Ministry to take over its network of 50 protégés for as many as it should be there the next day, and it fits only 25. I personally believe that this should be resolved, clearly in the communication of the mayor, the competent ministry, but why do I mention it? Because in this way others should also be stimulated to try their own means to solve this living need, this huge municipal standard that belongs to the retirement population. Finally, if I don't ask you not to swear, then at least take care of these people in some way, like anywhere else in Croatia, if we are all in this country before God, before the law, before the Constitution and before the Croatian Government equal. What we didn't, we know that, but that's why it should be. It is certainly well within this legislative proposal regulated procurement. Up to 500 thousand euros, we see this going to domestic competition, and over 500 thousand euros for international competition. On page 39, I will quote it, it is literally said that the company owned by the state and existing in the area of the borrower will be qualified to participate in the competition only if they can prove in a bank acceptable way, that they are legally financial independent, that they operate under commercial laws, are not agencies that are dependent on the government of the borrower, etc. I'm sure it's a quality one, under quotes "step out" compared to perhaps a domestic... practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the end, we clearly support that law. Why? Because it is about solving, I said, the enormous needs that Croatia has regarding this matter. It is certainly the most favourable loans Croatia can draw from an international institution at the moment, but once again I will call on the secretary of state to taxively indicate to us which, under the quotes "homes" or sanitary nodes, when they already know the gentleman in HDZ, thinks of spending 350 million kuna. So what kind of county is that money going to get, what cities are going to get that money, and what's 350 million kuna spent for in advance of this house? Let us not, gentlemen, mean for the end, let some counties neglect, that some counties suffer for, under quotes of "political opportunities of their own autonomy" or I don't know what to call it, and others reward and thus lead the policy of confirming their political weight by preparing for some of the next elections. Such a policy is simply frustrating, it eventually destroys not only the economy, but also trust in Croatian institutions. For the end of the second time, please gentlemen of the competent ministry, tell us which homes with 350 million are being edited in the Republic of Croatia, which are that, to be the banana, sanitary nodes now mentioned in the HDZ discussion, and why is it that, under quotes, "pilot project" all the money from 350 million kuna goes to Vukovar-Srijemska, Zadar, or Split-Dalmatia County?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47229	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47230	Comrade Cain, I welcome your ability to manipulate data, but also what you used on this occasion, so you said everything in one place, but the money all in one place. Sir, if you were listening, you knew very well that my presentation was not about money in one place, but about the concept of the work of the social care center, only to allow clients to have a faster and simpler and better institution. And why can't these three counties and why can't Buzet? And Buzet can get, and why the county if you want we'll explain it, and Buzet, if he wants, can get out of this $5 million, how much for this innovation fund he can get, if the experts of the Ministry of Social Care of the Republic of Croatia, and then the World Bank estimates that their project is in line with the European social standards and it gets it as a gift, in return, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47231	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47232	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, like my predecessor, I must say that I have remained caught up with the fact that today we have been present with one practice that I don't really remember in this House, that by proposing one law, in this case the secretary of state from the ministry has received a few technical details and data relating to the law itself, and from the representatives who are participating in the debate, it doesn't matter whether individually or on behalf of the Club of Representatives, we have received however, so much overly or more detailed information about a project that has its own, not only financial weight, but I would say a lot more than that, because here today it actually decides to reform a very important system. So, what's the problem? The problem is that we today seem to agree, without greater hesitation, that we need such a reform. We'll agree that we need money, and we'll agree that the loan we get from the World Bank is a favourable loan, and I want to say the exact same thing here on behalf of the SDP club, so we don't have any reserves on that. But compared to what do we have reserves? Well, we have a reserve against the fact that in two years, we've never had a minister or secretary of state in charge of social care to explain to us exactly what this project is about. I know a little more about the circumstances, but I'm not quite sure if it's a project initiated by the former government, which was built so the whole reform project was built with the help of consultants that we had in seven teams that had been working hard for two years, systematically studying our system, giving new proposals, etc. Is this about the empowerment project? This would suggest that it's either a base or a base, or it's something else. Here it is used, this is really about the project to finance the reform of the social care system. When you say here is the goal of the component etc. The application of a new organisational model in the social care centre, the new information management system, is to improve the infrastructure approved by social care homes. What infrastructure? Why in those homes, etc.? Part of the question was asked by my predecessor here. So right now we really don't have the elemental information about what we're going to raise our hand for. Therefore, the intention to reform and discuss whether it is necessary to reform the system, whether it needs to be improved, makes it more effective in itself is not controversial. That intention is not controversial. But I really don't know what my colleague Chikesh knows, and that's the problem. I expect the secretary of state to explain something to us, to tell us. I don't mind an emergency procedure. We should go to confirm this contract and we wouldn't want to be obstructive. But you can't have an entire system that important working like this reformed in this way. That's not good practice. Here, along with a request to give us the necessary information of this species or to guide us where we can find them, let us at least know where we can read it, on some pages of maybe the ministry. What's this about? We're gonna stand behind this World Bank contract. You know, we commit here that every September 30th of every year for the next five years or by 2009, when the project should be completed, we will inform the World Bank how this project is implemented. And we do not have such obligations to the Croatian Parliament which provides a third of the funds immediately from the budget. We secure a third of that entire amount from the state budget and we will naturally pay the rest as a loan. There's no obligation to be notified in this assembly. Who will follow how this project is implemented? With the request that we get these explanations, the SDP Club will support the Law on Confirmation of this Agreement, but fundamentally because we also have confidence that it is working in that direction. But from where this mystery, why this mystery that allows then and the doubts of this guy we've heard from Mr. Cain that maybe the money that's supposed to be used here for political purposes, propaganda purposes, etc. Indeed, this intransparency raises such a suspicion. I'm not showing it to the Priory, but there's no reason for the secrecy of this species. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47233	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vidovic, you have brought forth yours and begun the statement that you have been found. I was the least of you hoping you'd start out like that when you know well that I was in your county and you got everything on the table and you shouldn't have been caught. And so you relyed on the secretary of state to represent something else and let the representative get more specific information from it. I am a representative, not some, but a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community and the National Coordinator of this project, and so it was normal for the Secretary of State and I to simply supplement ourselves, not to say the same. And that's the thing, Mr. Vidic, not that we're hiding something. After all, everything writes to you no matter where you are or what you are we start with your county decentralisation which is in the hands of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47235	Thank you. Correction of Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47236	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Mr. Representative's incorrect allegations that there is a possibility of non-transparent financing of the project. Such a possibility does not exist, it is a World Bank project that includes the structure of control and control of spending run by the World Bank according to its principles as it is for all other projects, so this is one insinuation that wants to distract from this good project a little attention. And secondly, the project that was done in secret is not true at all. He was made transparently and publicly unlike the first part of the project that we found when we entered our duties which was done in complete secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47237	Thank you very much. Let's move on. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47238	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So I particularly support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and for a project for the development of the social care system. Here, we've heard here already that the value of the project is estimated at 45.6 million euros and we see that the largest part of 31 million is credit assets that are favourable to 15 years with a start of five years. However, significant funds are being allocated from the state budget for the total project from 2005 to 2008 to spend around 105 million kuna. Here we should certainly be grateful to the Swedish Agency for International Development and Co-financing of the project of a million and 702 000 euros. I am particularly happy that this pilot project is being implemented in my county of Vukovar-Srijemska, the county of which has suffered the greatest material and human casualties and the county that has if we take the gross social product then we are at the very bottom of the scale, and if it is unemployment, then we are at the very top. Then, it is said here if the project means success in these three county pilots that will continue and then also in other counties during 2006. I don't doubt the success of this project at all. I have no doubt for the reason here is why we saw that national coordinator is our colleague Lucia Chikesh, whom we know as a person of action and not from empty stories. And I also know that at the local level we will also give ourselves means a maximum effort to succeed this project by assessing it as a very important project in a very important system. According to a World Bank survey in 2000, we are in poverty and social assistance users, otherwise our population is about 10% below the national poverty line and 4.8% of the population is below the international poverty line. Certainly, unemployment and the age of the population to increase, we already belong to the old peoples because our participation of those over 65 years has passed 16%, so we belong to the old people and unemployment and this age gives and increases the number of users and social assistance and social care. And I have to repeat here what I have pointed out before that the social care and assistance system should be just and accessible, just to get it to those who really need it and can make it easy. The system should also encourage the work and responsibility of each individual that he is primarily responsible and tasked with caring for meeting his basic needs as well as meeting the life needs of those who are obliged to care by law or by other means. In practice, there are numerous irregularities, that individuals copy property to someone else, alienate them, work on black and all to become users of social aid or social giving. In this way, one is stimulated, one is reluctant and not content to live on, so here is the information that out of our working age unemployed only 50% is interested in working at all while others are satisfied with the incomes they receive. It is also neglected to help support those we are obliged to care about. So often, I get the news myself that in fact, those social assistance users, and those who should take care of them, too, think that it's actually all the tasks of the state, and the state certainly can't take care of it all. So if we mention the separation of our gross social product for E help and care, then that's it, that's the share of 0.57. The European average is 1.7, but we have countries that are far more developed than they are and stand out less of their social, gross social product for this kind of social care. So say Luxemburg 0.4,... 0.2, Greece 0.1, and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good, personally I think it would be good to compensate or most of the compensation for those who are working and working through the humanitarian war, to help older and powerless persons, disabled persons. Personally, I have recently been approached by a disabled person who is completely dependent on other people's assistance and is taking care of the request that the question should be resolved for them too, whether these handbooks who have committed themselves to civilian service of the military deadline, but why not those who receive social compensation and are working on why they would not be able to do one part of that fee in this way. Or public works. I see in our places that our public areas are abandoned, that the channels are abandoned and certainly that part of it could be resolved in this way, and the users themselves of social assistance, or social benefits, would feel useful and in them would encourage one feeling, a sense of importance. Important, we have seen that the aim of the reform is to deinstitutionalise it means that accommodation of socially endangered persons, an institution, would be only a final measure and to help them in their homes, families, which I think is extremely good. We're here when we discussed amending the social care law I mentioned foster families, and certainly those foster families that we have about 2,000 and 587 of which some 5 thousand and 788 of them are fostered by 2,000 and 301 children. And I have had the opportunity to contact the families who have fostered children and I know how caring and lovingly they care about these children and I feel also justified that the compensation for them should be adequate and accommodation in homes because this vision is certainly more humane and more acceptable to the users. We're also announcing decentralisation here, and we're all talking about decentralisation. It's really necessary and the establishment of these county centers, and I think it's a good solution and a good solution to what we had from the social care services proposal. ... So these county centers in their county they would arrange needs, develop a plan program, actions, all coordinated by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and followed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The important question is, in any case, the resociation of persons who need it, and it is indeed something that should deserve more attention in the future. And for better efficiency, as pointed out, so all the services of the county centre would be in one place, mobile teams would be connected to information, and that would mean that those receiving assistance on a higher basis would all be united together and receive unique social assistance, and that would certainly contribute to less abuse and others. Then, we see that part of the funds would be spent to improve conditions and in existing homes of social care but that would also be building social care institutions or adaptations, i.e. improving conditions... I think it's really necessary and it's really in my county there's such support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore consider it necessary to implement this project and to support the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47239	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47240	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, there is one important link ahead of us, one major step in the reorganization of the social care system is certainly the most sensitive in the social sense, in financial terms, and, of course, as we could conclude today from some remarks here and in the political sense. That social care is one about the first interesting spheres of virtually all the societies of the world, we see from the Millennium Declaration of the United Nations, where the Millennium Declaration was set as the first goal of reducing and curbing poverty. In this context, the social care system until this goal is achieved, when no one knows it, will always play the dominant and most important role. As we know in this Millennium Declaration, Croatia has committed itself to halve its poverty indicators by 2015. In the first row, to halve the number of inhabitants living in absolute poverty, the share of the population with income less than 17 thousand 965 kuna, which is so called. the relative line of poverty per erostat and to halve long-term unemployed persons, these are those who have been unemployed for more than two years. So in the first category, you need to be aware of the number of members of the poverty line from 17.2% to 8.6% and the number of long-term unemployed from 6.2% to 3.1%. In achieving such a goal, the social care system will be one bridge that must bridge all these poverty lines and in some way bring the country's potential into line with the most needed social care. Also in this system are a number of disabled persons, we also list homes for older and powerless, etc., therefore, the most sensitive layers of the population. What a state of social care is now, and which is why it is necessary, I would say this World Bank loan is necessary, therefore, one financial injection to repair the situation. The state of social welfare is not well, all the speakers said with excellent introductions by the secretary of state and Mrs Lucius Cikesh. I'd go a little bit under the skin and say the following. In our social care system today, the operation lacks the most important things, it is the fault of all previous governments, there we cannot really say which is less, which is more guilty, simply because we had other priorities, defence against Serbian aggression, repair of the war on damaged objects. Of course, social welfare, unfortunately, played a completely different role there. We are now turning into the social care of a peaceful state. In such social care it is inadmissible that there is no categorization of institutions, unfortunately there is no categorization of institutions today, which means there is no possibility of a single standard, accommodation and treatment of the protégés. There are no normatives, financial norms which mean that institutions of the same category or need of that same category or of the same category have a double difference in the price they receive from the State. It's in one of the protégés 5000 kn per month, the other under 2000. We don't have a user register which is the cornerstone of fair social care, so there's a possibility of abuse. Let's think of those who came for welfare, and they parked expensive cars around the corner. There is no information connection, as has already been said, which means that the system simply cannot function in one place. It's not said in one place to be funded. Conversely, our strategy implies decentralisation of funding, but the control system absolutely must be in one place otherwise unnecessary money is lost. There was no development strategy that began in the government's mandate and will continue with the World Bank's project. The lack of expert personnel in our institutions is a huge problem, and even in the ministry itself, I would say, because expert staffs must run the welfare system. This government has set out to solve a whole series of these problems. I'll just mention a few very unpleasant incidents that happened because of these shortcomings. We all remember the tragic situation in which the protégés of the House "Stančić" paid for their lives in which there was an infection that must not endanger the lives of the protégé, especially those protégés whose defensive level of the organism is very low, and the carelessness of the kitchen and hygiene standards in that institution was such that man could not trust his own eyes as he visited the facility. It's a similar situation as you heard in 70% of other institutions. So 70% of institutions don't have minimum hygiene that guarantees not only healthy life but doesn't even guarantee life itself. As counterpart Cain said, some of these institutions look 19th - century. Unfortunately, a good part of them is from the 19th century with almost no adaptation and investment in the 20th century, and when a man walks around, he cannot trust his eyes and ears. There were a whole series of incompetences I would say this mildly in the access of a private investor who, with his investments, wants to hang on to the budget of the state. It is an old Croatian pain, and then there are affairs such as Vojnic, as we have now heard from colleagues Kajin Buzet. What's this about? The businessman invests in building an institution several million euros and insists on the state to finance it. The law sets out what and how to enter the social care financing system. First of all, it must be agreed by the state, because the state will determine in its budget who will make a home for older and powerless or disabled people next year. Therefore, the synchronisation of the organisation and the payment must be top-notch without the agreement of the finance ministry. You can't spend money on a budget for that facility. It builds and invests huge funds, and it runs out of function. Unfortunately, there's a protégé who needs it, and there's capital, but there's no synchronization and there's no contract. For all these new institutions there would be money to level the funding criteria and not get one 5200 per month per protégé, and another 2300 kuna for the same category of institutions. What should be said here in this programme and the World Bank project, many of these inconveniences and negativity will fall away, because in the organisational sense, newspapers are being introduced and continued, the strategy is being completed, the system is informationally connected, and what is most important is raising the hygienic standard to the level of tolerance, to the level of life conservation. The project itself is as I must again quote Mr. Caine contains in himself what he called a racket. Namely, the creditor wants and takes a part of himself, the interest is very low and then takes through projects for intellectual services and that is the pain of all our projects. I won't list them, but one of the health care projects had $9 million in intellectual services. They're paid. I got intellectual services on one CD and I offered back to the investor, the finance man of the project for half a dollar, because that's how much this CD is worth with all those intellectual services. Here we found a project that envisioned nine and a half million kuna intellectual services, but we turned the project upside down and told the investor there are enough millions and a half of intellectual services to reorganize the system, and with the others we will build kitchens and sanitary knots. So we're going to enter a material investment, not an intellectual one that's undetectable and that's actually a waste of money. So I'd like to conclude to say the following. In three segments, this project will improve the state of social care in an organisation that involves deinstitutionalisation, decentralisation of social care, will improve the organisation because it will informically enable one place to monitor coordination, which is the most important control and will finally raise this hygienic and epidemiological standard to one European level so that our protégétes are not threatened. That is why I am heartily supporting this project and congratulating those who have supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47241	Thank you very much. The Ministry doesn't want it. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47242	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan contract No 7307-HR for a project for the development of the social care system between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for, 2 abstentions, 1 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47243	- Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Statute of the Hague Conference on International Private Law, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading of P.Z. No. 376; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments shall be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. If there are questions then yes. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one answered for the hearing. I am concluding the debate and the decision will be taken by a later vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47244	Final draft law confirming the Treaty of Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Statute of the Hague Conference on International Private Law Please join us. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47245	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 380; Proposer of law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Ivica Mastruko's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47246	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, clearly the HNS Club supports this bill. It's a routine job and it's routine laws that are passed. However, I have come to the floor because this is an opportunity to point out that in Croatian interest this type of signing and with all other important economic partners of Croatia, because these are, in fact, the laws that are such as these, these agreements are actually suitable for Croatian businesses not to pay taxes on profits in Jordan and the like. However, 40 contracts of this kind or similar character have been signed, but it seems to me that the emphasis should be on those countries with which we have developed economic relations, or with those countries with which we have a significant exchange. This has not always been the case so far, I think it has gone through a line of less resistance, so it has signed this agreement and we are revising, for example, rather with Mauricios than with Slovenia. Although it was in the mutual interest. In the context of this, I'm going to mention one more thing. Today, we have a popular, modern, color-based term, term, syntagma of economic diplomacy, and these agreements can also be observed in this context. But this is economic diplomacy, all of you standing up for it, it's a totally undefined category with us. It does not appear in either political consciousness or in practice that the tasks of economic diplomacy are not clear, which it should be, what it should be, and who it should be. In fact, the problem is fundamentally and fundamentally contained in the fact that in the economic sector, we have most private-owned entities and now it is a matter to which the border diplomatic representation extends, e.g. economic advisers in our embassies, to which the borders extend to represent private companies and companies abroad through state institutions, state bodies, or economic advisers. In other words, the danger lies with state, social money, taxpayers' money through Croatian diplomacy being financed by private company representatives abroad. That's why when I say that economic diplomacy is not defined who, what and how these jobs should be done. The tasks of economic diplomacy are fundamentally known, in theory, but not in practice, should be the creation of legal infrastructure, doing such and similar trade exchange contracts and all that belongs to this diplomatic, legal, bilateral, contractual infrastructure. It can be done for individual companies to explore their partners' credits abroad, lobbying in large businesses, and to illustrate the overall economic potential of the Republic of Croatia or the like. But we're talking about economic diplomacy, and I'm afraid that sometimes it doesn't come down to the paid representatives of individual private firms. The foreign ministry and the Ministry of Economy should express, it is not, it shouldn't be a big document, it should have pragmatic value, but it should be one of the strategies of the Croatian economic performance and what Croatian economic diplomacy means under the syntagm. It seems to me that in this area, the sector is much better organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce than the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47247	Thank you very much. There isn't. So he's not asking for a word from a government official. That's what we've concluded with this debate. He'll decide later. Now would be a break until 3:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47248	Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of non-taxation of income tax I am giving the final draft of the law to vote. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 98 votes to pass the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda is the Final Proposal of the Law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 375 Proposer is Government. The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees. You received the reports at the session. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of Herman Sušnik to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, MPs! Let me take this right here in front of you is the Law on forest reproductive material with the final bill. In accordance with the European Union’s National Programme of Association for 2005 and the need to bring legislation into line with the legal acquiss of the European Union, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has joined the creation of a Law on Forest Reproductive Materials, which is the task of introducing procedures in the production and transport of forest reproductive material that are in line with international legislation and this guidance from the Council of Ministers which regulates the market in forest reproductive material. The Republic of Croatia can boast of the fact that most of the forest is a natural composition. The restoration and preservation of the genetic wealth of our natural forest eco-systems is possible only by strict supervision and by the law of regulated actions consisting of the collection and rejuvenation of quality forest seeds... where there is a need for this, and the production of forest seedlings in nurseryes and the planting of these seedlings in habitats where it is not possible to restore it by sowing forest seeds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, about 2,000 and 200 tonnes of forest seed are collected annually in Croatia and 28 to 35 million forest seedlings are produced in forest devastations. The use of genetically poor forest reproductive material or its use in inadequate habitats may result in irreparable damage to forest restoration. Such a mistake leaves a mark on habitats, a different and unfavourable impact on the eco system and the environment, and the process of resuscitating such areas is extremely expensive and lasting. Croatian forestry on a scientific basis is aimed at establishing forest seed production in order to improve waste production and raise cultures and plantations. To that end 18... Seed plantations of the main indigenous species of forest trees and 137 recognised seed ingredients for the collection of forest seeds have been registered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is particularly important to highlight the rise of the crown seed plantations of the shell oak on a total area of 66 hectares, thus creating conditions for continuous production of the most quality seed and our most significant forest species for both domestic forestry and possible exports to neighbouring countries. To this end, contacts with individual countries have already started because of the interest in importing seed oak nuts originating in the Republic of Croatia and for reasons of lack of quality seed for the restoration and raising of oak forests in the same. The novelty adopted by this law is the development of forest reproductive material in four categories and the known origins selected, qualified and tested. This law clearly defines the conditions for the production and transport of forest reproductive material and for each category separately, it is prescribed that only those forest seed plants which are registered in the special register of forest seed facilities and the exception regarding the conditions for private forest owners in their forests may be used for the production of reproductive material. The law prescribes specific conditions for placing on the market, introduces guidelines as a novelty and a main testimony that must be followed by any party of reproductive material, regulates the use of forest reproductive material and prescribes the determination for each economy of an important forest type of area... with a map of the area to define the areas of production, respecting similar phenotypic and genetic characteristics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new term shall be introduced for the supplier of the reproductive material and the supplier of Christmas trees, which shall define the obligation for those involved in the production, transport or import of forest reproductive materials and the production and transport of Christmas trees to be entered in the registers, the way in which they are registered, the removal from the register and their obligations. The procedure for importing forest reproductive material as well as the recognition of the same validity of reproductive material that is not produced in the Republic of Croatia and imported in the territory of our country is particularly developed. In order to eliminate the risk of lack of reproductive material for the purpose of sustainable forest management and forest restoration as a novelty, a seed saving plant is introduced in which a certain amount of seed material is stored, the genetic bank of forest trees consisting of a supervised or farmed population with the aim of preserving genetic diversity as well as a seed bank as a long-term collection of samples of seed material for scientific and research purposes. The law also defines the commission for forest reproductive material as the advisory body of the ministry and members are selected from the ranks of scientists and professional staff and civil servants. The aim of the commission is to care and propose measures and activities that will help professional development of the area of forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the guidelines to which this law is harmonised, data and information on international criteria as well as their international exchange are also collected and used. It can be concluded from this point of view that the adoption of this law will improve the important area of forest activity, equate production, transport and imports with the criteria laid down in the Member States of the European Union and allow our suppliers to make forest reproductive material... the quality and documentation process shall be placed on the market side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will also regulate the transport of Christmas trees on the domestic market in such a way as to prevent unfair competition and allow real Christmas tree producers to sell it with appropriate documents for those registered places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47251	Thank you very much. Is there a committee reporter who wants to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47252	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the adoption of the Law on forest reproductive material, which, as proposed, seeks to regulate production, transport and import of reproductive material and Christmas trees. It thus protects domestic reproductive material producers and enables them to comply with EU and export criteria, i.e. smooth international transport and trade. This law aims to ensure production of quality reproductive material that would allow optimal management of the forest eco system. The vast forest wealth of the Republic of Croatia can be maintained only by strict supervision and by law prescribed actions because the use of bad forest reproductive material creates irreparable damage in the restoration of forests which later require huge costs of recovery. Unlike the previous law, novelty in this law has so far been introduced by forest reproductive material seeds and seedlings, four new categories of reproductive material of known origin have been selected, qualified, tested. Newspapers are being introduced, a licence for general traffic conditions, specific conditions for the placing on the market of crosses and genetically modified material have been defined. The law defines parties of reproductive material and their physical separation. The novelty is a declaration by the supplier issued on the basis of the different colour certificates. It is very important in the law to regulate the production and transport of Christmas trees. The area of implementation has been regulated, so far it's been seed units. A new term is being introduced for the supplier of reproductive material, so far the manufacturer, the processor and the importer. We consider it a very important annual list of seed facilities, as well as the design of an object management programme and define who works which category of forest reproductive material. The list of countries shall be clearly defined for the purpose of importing and recognising equally valid reproductive material but also in the case of a lack of reproductive material shall be authorised by means of certain ropes and imports of materials which do not satisfy the conditions laid down in the law. A very important rule of law consists of seed savings and a genetic bank at the institute. The collection and exchange of information and data at European Union level shall be regulated. A more detailed problem of competent oversight is being elaborated. So, the main and most important papers of the law are categories of forest reproductive material, the main testimony and the supplier's declaration and, as I have already said, sure that production, transport and import of reproduction of materials certainly come under a different archene and that there will be order, and we will also allow our manufacturers to make quality... the material has its own space on the European Union market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47253	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on forest reproductive material is concluded. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47256	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's the final proposal of the Forest Act. The reasons for the creation and adoption of the new Law on Forests, as highlighted during the first reading, stems from the obligation to comply with Croatian legislation with European Union directives, the emerging social and economic circumstances that impose the restructuring and privatisation of certain jobs in the Croatian forests d.o.o., and numerous amendments and additions to the applicable Law on Forests in recent years. The proposal for this Law lays down provisions in international directives and conventions that we are signatories to. They relate in specific ways to forest management, natural rejuvenation, variety of species, conservation of natural habitats, improvement of general useful forest functions. What is important to note is that in the Republic of Croatia 95% are natural forests and only 5% artificially raised forests. Forests and forest land cover 44% of land areas and are owned by the state 81% and 19% and 460 thousand hectares in private ownership, respectively. It is also important to stress that around 10% of the national forests are under mines, which is a major problem in forest management. By this Act, transactions relating to international cooperation, observation and monitoring of the situation of adapted methodologies to the European Union have been transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The forest damage register and the forest fire register will be established. The law addresses a number of issues that improve the provisions of the existing Law and thus clearly define procedures, relations and concepts in the field of forestry. One of the tasks of the new law is to make Croatian forestry, wood industry competitors on the foreign market. This is intended to be achieved for the first time by giving the power to license and empower forest workers through the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers and Wood Technology to be established under a special law. The law defines more precisely the new use of forests and forest land, the establishment of services on forests and forest land, the financing of works in forestry and the resources of generally useful forest functions, and also other forest owners, and not only the state forests. For the first time, this is how it will be invested in private forests where there is wood potential that is not adequately used. This will encourage sustainable management in all forests, as well as the development of forestry and the achievement of population income in rural areas of the country. The law also provides for the establishment of a forest advisory service with the aim of improving the situation of private forests, rounding up ownership according to European principles, information and education of forest owners and repaying them. The financing of the construction of the municipal infrastructure of local self-government will also be paid a forest contribution of 3.5% of the sales price of the product... in the hive, and in the mountain-mounted area and area of special care 5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will help develop local communities, especially in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. The law allows for scientific and scientific... to the institutions to also target their activity on forest protection and conservation projects, improving forest management as part of this will be financed directly from the resources of the common useful forest functions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The forest inspection is set up as two-degree law. The law addresses a number of other issues, and I believe that it will help to address the issues ahead of us in forestry, primarily in the restructuring of Croatian forest companies, and the management of forests that need to be ecologically responsible, socially useful and economically sustainable. The certificate received by the Republic of Croatia from the FSC Forest Management Council, for 2 million hectares of forests which are managed by Croatian forests, is proof of Croatia's orientation towards sustainable forest management.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47257	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47258	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the Final Proposal for the Forests Act. The forests in the Republic of Croatia meet to a large extent economic, environmental and social functions and have a significant impact on the quality of life. The value of Croatian forests is internationally recognised for the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural, and also because of preserved biodiversity, which has been the most contributed by the forest tradition of more than 150 years. The importance of forests in the world is also growing because of their role in climate change. The Republic of Croatia has signed and ratified most of the international agreements and conventions that directly or indirectly affect forest management. The basic postulate and this new Forest Act is to ensure the sustainability of income, i.e. sustainable management under emerging circumstances. So far, the models of management, i.e. the implementation of planned works of a simple and expanded biological reproduction of forests, have not been effective. The insurance models for the implementation of the plans and surveillance models were not effective enough. The long-term planning and its trombone of adapting to dynamic market conditions has benefited the foreign market from domestic damage. The new Forest Act is based on the concept of the conservation of forests and the development of forestry in a functional sense, as well as the demarcation of the rights of management, availability, management and use of forest resources. In this respect, the law regulates the management right of the owner in choosing how to manage and distribute profits. The right of management and distribution of profits in state forests has a state-owned company. It should result in investments in new technologies, knowledge and scientific research in forestry, and investments in preserving and restoring the damaged forest ecosystems and raising new forests. The units of local self-government according to this proposal also generate additional revenues, slightly greater than the existing law. Legal persons carrying out the sale of wooden varieties pay a forest contribution of 3.5% of the sales price of the product on the horse, and in the mountain range and area of special state care 5%. Let me remind you, that contribution so far has been 2.5% of the sales price. The funds of the forest contribution shall be paid at the expense of units of local self-government, the area in which the deforestation of forests has been carried out and used exclusively to finance the construction of municipal infrastructure. The existing regulations aimed at improving forest management in the possession of other legal and natural persons have proved inconclusive because they were based on administrative models of coercion. The relationship between the legislator and the private forest owners of the new law is based on the following. In the interest of forest owners to increase wood supply and sustainable forest management on market principles, while preserving generally useful forest functions. And secondly, the aim is to encourage forest owners to cooperate with forest experts, to apply forest achievements, to round up properties and to associate. In this direction, it is envisaged to encourage the planning management of forests that will rest on programmes of management and the will of forest owners, and to sanction procedures contrary to international conventions and domestic principles. The positive relations of forest owners will encourage the state from the means of payment of compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions with the aim of preserving and improving national forestry. Additional protection of forests and forest land as well as of interest for the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by a provision giving authority to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to give an opinion on basic spatial plans. The law also addresses the problem of the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the forest economic area. Exploitation of mineral raw materials will be possible only if the forest or forest land is separated from the forest economic area and clean cutting and deceleration on the basis of an earlier building permit. For the purpose of raising multiannual crops, livestock farming and the like remains the possibility of establishing services on unprocessed forest land or growing in one of the degrees of degraded forests. In this way, the property does not change the owner by protecting the Forest Land Fund, which overall meets the requirements of both investors and forest owners. The transition of the forest inspection from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy is set up as two-stage retaining of the organisation's current way by area units in the first degree, and the second-degree inspection is set up in the ministry. The law also addresses a number of other issues that improve the provisions of the existing Forest Act, and thus clearly define procedures, relationships and concepts in the area of forestry that have caused doubts and different interpretations in the existing law. Functional changes within companies, emerging social economic circumstances, the obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union, and its novelisation due to numerous changes and additions over the past two decades have required the adoption of this new law. The new law is based on conventional forest management with respect to the provisions of the directives and conventions that we are signatories, and will also make Croatian forestry and wood industry competitive on the foreign market. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the Forest Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47259	Thank you very much. PGS club, SBH, MPS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished government representatives, State Secretary and colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us, with a few words, comment on the proposal of the Law on Forests, its final version for the reason that we hold to talk about a very important law, and I must immediately say that we respect the facts that the Secretary of State has said that it is a bill which is in one part and a harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, harmonising with all that has lost a line in terms of the consistency of the law through changes and additions that has been brought back in years, and we also respect the fact that the Proposer has gone in one direction which is a step forward and in principle we can agree with that. However, when it comes to the forest, when it comes to the Law on Forests, since I am a representative of the County with the specificity of the Mountain Kotar, as a single subregional space, we also want to say some additional things that will be known to the secretary of state, and he has already heard them, and I have also talked about it in the assembly. It is nice to hear that 95% in Croatia are natural forests, that we are special, that it is indeed an exceptional resource of the state, but we should look at and return to the structure of that capital, into the structure of that value of these state forests. I would like to remind you that by 1947 only 16% of the total forests in Gorski Kotar were owned by the state. Everything else, 84% had their own title. Whether they were individuals, whether they were specific forms of organization, whether it was a church, if they were land communities that were famous, we were talking about land communities in the House. There is also a former minister and he has already commented on our enquiries about the land communities. We will support this bill, but we want to make it clear that for us the question of the land communities is not a closed book and a question of the right to follow-up from capital and value that stems from the fact that there are 25 thousand hectares of forest in Gorski Kotar by '47. or owned by land communities, had a master, was known precisely by families, last names and family who owned it. It was about, as I was told by my colleagues from Gorski Kotar, about 7 million cc's of wood stock, and if we take what's already mentioned today, that we have so far had 2 and a half percent forest rent, and that it will now increase to 5%, then in relation to someone inherited right from these 25 thousand acres of forest comes as something that is at least unfair and which is something that can't be taken as a criterion in terms of justice. In view of this, we believe that this question is something to try to resolve, in fact, in connection with the necessary changes in the status of the trade society of the Croatian forest. We think that as it does not meet the needs of the Croatian society and the Croatian state, as a single company and centralised and what absolutely works at the state level, we think that the negation of reality and negation is the need for space with which the forest is a resource. I would like to make it clear about this law that we think that according to our country-mounted mountain-mounted areas in terms of their stimulation, in terms of investment in these areas, in terms of creating the conditions for people to stay living in those areas, because now to mention the number of inhabitants of Like or Gorski Kotar, we all know very well here, mention that there is a "white plague" daily phenomenon, that I now list the number of villages in the Gorski Kotar where 1 to 3 inhabitants. Therefore, we cannot consider that by mountain-mounted law and by being stimulated there, we have fulfilled our obligation to try to keep something there other than "a weekend of tourism". Therefore, the first resource is the forest, the other, of course, corridors for which these spaces need to receive fair fees, whether they are road, gas, oil, or not, are water resources, but, above all, I, in the name of PGS, SBS, MDS, on behalf of regional parties, announce that we think and that in the next year, we will ask the question of the land communities again in public, among other things, and for the reason that in those areas where people are interested in the solution to this problem of heritage from the land communities, we know what kind of attitude all parties have about it, so that even in the next state elections, they can be determined towards everyone and in light of this issue. Because when I say that I would like to make it very clear that we hold that the two models are the right thing to do, they can be discussed but not that this 5% to the end is fair, they can be... It can be said that it is impossible to make a nominal restitution, not that it is impossible to return it to the last name and family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no one can say that it is impossible for the rights arising from the ownership of land communities in one significant part of the forest to be transferred to local self-government units and additionally injected by an engine that, in terms of the wealth of these areas, will keep people living there. I believe that the secretary of state as a man who has spent a lot of things in that space understands the problem, so what I have said is not about the correction of the proposed law which is correct and professional in this part but we did not want to miss the chance to say what we should about this because we hold that book around the land communities is not even allowed to be closed, it is a matter of total justice, if a lot of it comes back to this country, some damage in terms of ownership to those who owned those 25 thousand hectares in Gorski Kotar should be brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47261	Thank you. The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47262	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow prime ministers, colleagues and colleagues, above all I welcome you all at the beginning of this afternoon's debate with this Law on Forests, which is here after a long time finally came into procedure. In the introduction, I would say that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this forest law. Allow me a few words about that. The forest law was first passed in the 1990s and was one of the laws that lasted until today or tomorrow when we will vote. During that time he suffered several amendments and additions, and I think that we have now brought him into line with the legal assets of the European Union and that we have received a law that will support not only the Croatian Parliament but also the forest practice. I think I can say this freely, given that I have had contacts with both Croatian forestry and colleagues in the Croatian forests and it is a general impression that this Law can be supported. First of all, I'd like to list why we can support him, which is why I personally consider it that way. First, it is possible to manage forests in Croatia at two million hectares throughout the area under equal conditions. Which is very important to me. Second. We are solving with the formation of a forest advisory service the problem of the private forests that has been quite indicated so far, these 500 thousand hectares deserve more and more care about them. With the establishment of that service, I think we've solved it in the best possible way. Third. The decentralisation of funds that is present through this Act means that 5% of how much is returned to local self-government does not seem to me to be the only example in our legislation that we have returned some of the funds to the local community where it came into existence, and I particularly support these colleagues, a colleague who before me said that I should return some of the funds especially to those areas that are foresty like the Gorski Kotar and we have them and Lika and a lot of others. Fourth. In this way and by implementing this Act, it is possible and ensured either... production throughout the area of forest management in the Republic of Croatia and is ensured... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is extremely important is that today we can say that in the way our Zagreb Forest School taught us to have one of the best, best forests in Europe. This is the basis and certificate spoken of by the secretary of state and I think that in recent years we have made a significant step in this and that we can raise ourselves with these forests but that does not mean that we do not have to continue to care and worry first of all about their health and support. Fifth. Or that one in a row. Ensuring the resources for the general services of forests provided by this Act enables the areas that we have in recent years quite special drying of food in Gorski kotar where acid rain results in significant damage to the trees, in this way and by using these means we can also enable the repair of these damages but not only meals, as well as the Slavonic oak of the shell that is drying more and more, is also a large percentage of the damage we can provide through these funds. Not to say how much it means to build fire roads and other parts of the coast. Only for the illustration that the Croatian forests were in that term while I was at the head of the company, they worked between 300, 400 km of roads and now it's about 300 km away. Therefore, these 300 km of roads built in the area of 400 to 600 meters above sea level mostly means one major rural development of the whole area, allowing for a further basis for developing a complete part of the agricultural area that has been abandoned for a good part of the years and thus allowing for more quality work. Furthermore, the next point that I think is good as a forester, although there have been more conversations in this House about it because the return of forest inspection in the ministry and its action I think the best possible way to do so will be through the ministry as one of the departments and thus will be able to directly control all the entities in that section. What I would, these are the 6, 7 reasons why I think it is necessary to support this Law, would give them a detailed discussion and any further detailed explanation, but here I was after this speaker maybe often and boring because I've already talked about these topics many times, over the past year since we've had a few changes, first changes and additions, and then first reading and now others etc.. What I might say may be different, I think, are the criminal provisions that are mentioned and their height that are quite high for today's opportunities and today's standard. Especially those directly involved in the field. I don't know, I think maybe there could have been some milder punishments that would also have the same effect. Because when you punish one of your colleagues... There on the field manager with no idea, two, three of his salaries then that's pretty big. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And often we have cases that aren't exactly like that and that in nature some things can happen and not only blame man but also the influence of external factors. In particular, we have cases and colds, I don't know about droughts and everything else, and often it's impossible to determine whether it's just a human or an expert. But anyway, here's what I think maybe we could have had a little bit of a cut down on that criminal provision. And I'd also say here's just one more example, which I think might be a little bit more coordinated. Here it is foreseen in the Law to do a national forestry programme which will be adopted here by our parliament. And the article behind also mentions that our foundations of management must be in harmony with it. Considering that you're... I do not know whether the programme will be adopted here in Parliament and whether we will arrive on time and bring it into line with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also no mention of the forest strategy and policies adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. True, in the last term, I think it should have been mentioned because it is the basis for all that has been happening for three years in our branch and it has been accepted by Europe as such, as one basis for further development in that branch. That would be here means some of the basic remarks that I would point out here in this debate. I wouldn't owe you any more. I tried to say briefly what I think is necessary and the points that are and why it is necessary to support this law. The HSS Club is also on the stand that this law as such can be supported. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47263	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47264	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. One of the basic reasons why this law is passed is the desire to ensure economic efficiency. In fact, the current forest management system has proved inadequate, and whether it will ensure greater economic efficiency will show time. The forests in the Republic of Croatia fill the economic, ecological and social functions and represent one of the greatest treasures of this country, of course, has been used particularly in economic terms. Given the capacity, Croatia should have developed industry, and the area of the forest should be more adequately used in tourist terms as well. The main shortcomings in this were the organisation, structure and way of working of the trade society of the Croatian Forests where all these trombones of systems, unnecessary administration, centralization of management and similar phenomena that go with it were evident. The awareness of the need to restructure Croatian forests appeared ten years ago, so some unscheduled studies, such as all projects that work by different foreign consultants who know the area in question, but do not know the environment of the area. Of course, the result was an incomplete solution that led to the amendment and addition of the Law on Forests in 2002. The changes unfortunately did not result in better business, so this law should also be based on the market principles of forest management, decentralisation of systems, reduction of administration, fostering motivation of all forest sector employees and what is always lacking in this society of greater governance responsibilities. However, these components are being passed through this law and even the social aspect, perhaps a little too emphasised, for example, by Article 3 of the general useful functions of Article 6 forest in the interest of the Republic of Croatia in forest management, Article 7 on the indication of all European criteria for the maintenance of forest management and so on. And many other provisions have a declarative character that has not been elaborated in the later text of the law. It is also the main feature of this law, and it is questionable whether it will produce positive shifts in forest management and management as it seeks, as is the aim of this law. It is also necessary to pay attention to Article 18 of the current Law on Croatian Forests concerning the distribution of Croatian Forests profits in such a way that 50% of the funds belong to the company, 25% to the state budget, and 25% to local self-government units. It is also foreseen that the way the funds are allocated to the local self-government units is prescribed by the minister. This raises the question whether this is a good distribution and whether to leave it to the Minister to determine the principles of the distribution of funds belonging to local self-government or whether it is necessary to establish it by law. However, the allocation criteria should in any case depend on the contribution of each entity. The same situation is also related to the work that the inspection of the State Inspectorate is acting within the Ministry itself because such a way of doing inspection goes according to that: "When you are sued, cadija and judge!" and it is impossible to see the public and the governments and presidents of the Croatian Forests are operating legally, whether the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy performs that function in the manner prescribed by the law, because everything revolves in the same circle, especially since the heads of the Ministry are at the same time and in the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests. As regards the ownership remarks that we have as a ownership relationship club, the current proposal does not address the issue of ownership, ownership, use, use and availability in the state forests, but rather retains the existing situation. 81% we know are state and 19% private. This property structure was established in 1947 and lasted until the 1990s, meaning social property while it existed when it was taken over with the fact that until then the social forests had become state forests under the Law on the Forests since 1990. So there was no thought at all about the state of the forest owned by the '39s that was supposed to be starting with us, according to which this fundamental issue had to be resolved. State forests were to be divided into state forests which were always a state of affairs from 1939 and other forests, forests of former property municipalities, city forests, municipal forests and land communities' forests should be returned to the counties, cities and municipalities. The reasons for that are next. Local administration and self-government now have great material obligations in the near future. They can only be higher education, health care and so forth, but unfortunately there is no source of income due to the centralized state management system. In Western European countries, the ownership structure is just the other way around. I note that it has been in neighbouring Slovenia since '47. By the 1990s, 70% of the forest was in the private sector and 30% were in the social sector. Monopolity which Croatian forests have in the management of the forests of the state forests in Croatia is now dominated by only one commercial society and these are the Croatian forests d.o.o. Directorate in Zagreb, 16 regional forest administrations and 171 forests. The Croatian Government's conclusion of February 22, 2001 began the process of reorganisation due to repeated business losses due to unresolved management, organisational, production, development and business problems. This process, although it was made, although the Strategic Action Plan for the Reconstruction and Development of the Croatian Forests by the aforementioned Irish company did not go far away, and for the illustration, the Irish company did not even do so in Ireland, but worked in Gabon and some other developed countries. For forests that used to be of former property municipalities, urban forests, municipal forests and forests of land communities, we think that we should put them in the forest advisory service articles 68th and 69th, although it might be wise to consider also the Institute of Forestry that would have branches in the county and in the City of Zagreb. We also have observations regarding the issue of single management. The proposal, as well as the old law, addresses the issue of uniform forest management on the basis of the forest-economic base of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the basis and management programme of the state and private, for private forests. It is a circus somewhere 700 economic units in Croatia. Unfortunately, the issue of single funding is not well solved at all, and it needs to address the first simple biological reproduction of forests, forest protection, forest planning, forest roads, part of the machinery and direction management related to this all that I have stated. As regards financing, the uniqueness of funding should be implemented for the above-mentioned meanings of the activities that I have said regarding the financing. But unfortunately, it's not well worked out and done here. Therefore, the existing draft law has not addressed the issue of financing in forestry at all, it is not transparent which part of the income must be invested in the cultivation of forests, i.e. restoration, and this is directly related to the fundamental postulate in forestry secret management, because today it has a clear term of sustainable management. It is clear and transparent that money should first be provided for the salaries of employees of the Croatian Forests, and then what remains if it remains goes for cultivation, if it is missing, can be used with a cutting. This part is very subtlely resolved in the proposal, i.e. the final proposal for this law. As for the Croatian forests again improvisation. In fact, in the transitional and final provisions, the deadline for restructuring of the Croatian forests must be clearly defined, meaning under legal regulations, in order to look at the necessary workers, optimal systematisation should be developed on the basis of wood cutting, cultivation, forest protection works and forest road work and machinery for all forest administrations for them 116 and 171 forests. Employment now in Croatian forests and in relation to optimal conditions can be harmonised within 5 years. A ban on administrative staff, selective employment, natural reduction of pensioners, or every year by 20%. Forest and forestry administrations that do not reduce the number of employees will pay up to 80% with their salaries and 20%, i.e. to increase the number of employees, the increase in employees will condition lower wages. Because objectively, employees work less than those who have spent and perform optimal systematization. It also needs to be looked at for rewards throughout this area. Therefore, the HSP club will have a lot of amendments to what I was saying and depending on the fate of these amendments will also depend on our final position on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47265	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47266	Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kovacevic seems to have read the law that was withdrawn in the previous reading, so he wrongly said that Article 18 defines profits. That's no longer in the new proposal. He's probably old, and there's a lot of other things he wouldn't be able to fix in this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47267	Okay. Honorable representative Valter Poropat, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47268	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia cover 2 and a half million hectares, which means about 43% of the area. This data is very clear that the Republic of Croatia is rich in forests, and even internationally recognised the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural. It is precisely because of these facts that our responsibility is even greater to protect the forest and to master it in the best possible way, and most importantly, to further restore and forest the unprocessed forest surface where possible. The proper way of management supports the biological balance, but also meets the international conventions that we are signatories. Such management requires a higher degree of expertise and significantly higher investment than modern methods by raising cultures and plantations. It is of paramount importance that the forestry of the Republic of Croatia has almost abandoned the cultivation of forest areas, making it more difficult for other countries of the European Union as the nature of their forests is well below the level prescribed by international conventions. The development of forestry in the context of European Union policy, the importance of forest ecosystems in the Kyoto Protocol and the increasing burden on various harmful factors give the forest policy a special dimension in which Croatia's forestry policy and our country's development strategy should be integrated. In such circumstances, the space and process of restructuring of the company must be developed, and certain activities of the company that can produce the best results in free market conditions should be subject to market valorisation. Functional changes within society, emerging socio-economic circumstances, the obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union and their novelisation due to numerous changes and additions over the past decade require changes to the Law on Forests. It should be established in a conventional way of forest management, with respect to the provisions, directives and conventions we are signatories to, and also to make our forestry and wood industry competitive in the demanding market of the developed world. Therefore, this means that the Forest Law should be assumed by the most favourable way of managing forests under the circumstances of long-awaited decentralisation, i.e. strengthening the private sector in forestry, the development of wood industry, the restriction of nature protection, the expansion of the construction area to forest space, etc. That is why I believe that caution is never enough when it expresses the desire for Croatian forestry to become competitive on the foreign market, to achieve better results in free market conditions etc., etc. So, when we try to achieve competitiveness with a natural resource such as the forest, then we must be very careful that the result does not go to harm natural resources, i.e. sustainable management of market principles does not become a myth. I would like to say that in practice we must find the right measure for market and sustainable. In order to avoid short-term gains, we sacrifice the quality and quantity of our forest resource in the long term, and the resulting resources of water and soil. Due to the great diversity of plant and animal species, as a result of the forest tradition of more than 150 years old, we must be set an example by which we take on an even greater burden of responsibility to protect our natural forest resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47269	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47270	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me make my point on the final proposal of the Forest Law. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia are of a renewable nature and have special protection of the state. About 95% of the forest area is natural with over 60 forest communities. Forests and forest land cover about 2 million hectares or about 43 and a half% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The forests are managed on the principle of natural restoration, and the owner of forests and forest land is a country of 81% of the total area, and 19% of forest and forest land areas are owned by natural and legal persons. Almost 86% of the total wood stock is estimated at, owned by the state and estimated at 324 million cubic metres and managed by the company of the Croatian Forests, Zagreb, while with 2% of the wood stock is owned by another legal person, and with 12% forest owners. In fact, I point out that for the past 60 years, the situation has actually turned around. 60 years ago, we had about 20% of the ownership of forests and forest land owned by the state, and everything else was owned by citizens or legal persons. Foresting and wood industry employ 49,000 workers, out of which 9 and a half thousand workers were employed in Croatian forests. All this data suggests that forests in the Republic of Croatia should be carefully managed in a sustainable manner in accordance with the principles of environmental conservation. In my court, it is possible to improve the management of forestry owned by the Republic of Croatia and significantly improve forest management owned by forest owners. So that part of forestry is really the most lagging behind in the Republic of Croatia and it's worth pointing out here. And a lot of the provisions of this Law have just been directed towards improving the forest economy owned by forests owned by forest owners. This Law therefore addresses a number of issues that improve the provisions of the existing Forest Act, and thus clearly define the procedures and relations in the area of forestry which have caused doubts and possible different interpretations in existing laws. In a clear way, the right to manage, dispose, manage and use forest resources is regulated. In this respect, the management rights of forest owners are regulated in the selection and management and distribution of profits, while the right to manage the market principles in the state forests has a company owned by the State. This company that now bears the name of Croatian forest d.o.o. it is placed in a position to operate on market principles, i.e. it will have to be competitive on the domestic and foreign markets. To this end, parts of this society will be privatised and certain activities in this society will also be privatised. One newspaper and very high quality, collecting resources for the simple biological reproduction of forests and using the means of compensation for generally beneficial forest functions, this Law regulates it in a way that allows these funds to be allocated to forest management owned by the State, but also owned by forest owners. Which has not been the case for the past 60 years. A forest advisory service whose primary task is the improvement and management of forests and forest land of forest owners and the exercise of public authority in that area shall be established. So far, the forest owners have not, in fact, had no proper competent authority to address the issues of how to manage forests, but also to improve that management. The promotion of forest management plans that will rest on optimal management programmes that the state will encourage by means of compensation for the generally beneficial functions of the forest. A national inventory of forest resources will be implemented for quality planning in forestry, which we have not had in the Republic of Croatia so far, which will collect data on the state of the forest. The contents and methods of conducting the national inventory of forest resources will be prescribed by the minister. Policy, the conditions for forest management in view of their multi-purpose use will be governed by the national forest programme adopted by this Assembly. So this is also a quality document that will be able to address the policy issues of governance of these valuable national goods. The conditions for the use of forests and forest land and procedures in the area are determined by forest-economic plans, as we know already the economic basis of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the economic base units and other plans and programmes which are detailed in how they are managed by forests and forest land. It is also important to point out that foreign citizens' ownership of forests and forest land is being regulated. Of course, for now it is impossible and will be impossible until the Republic of Croatia opens such an opportunity by regulating the issue by means of an appropriate international contract. We've had a lot of difficulties exploiting mineral raw materials in the woods, but this law has arranged it in an appropriate way. The issue is being introduced, to edit the issue of exploitation in such a way that, without changing ownership of interested persons, it allows the exploitation to take place. Of course, through a contract that concludes with whoever owns the land, or forest. I can point out more, Mr. President, only in the end, that the proposer of this Law has observed a series of remarks from the previous reading. However, there are still some issues that need to be settled in a different way, which is primarily Article 35 of this Law that regulates the question of reforestation, i.e. the owners who boarded the forest or executed the so-called clean cut. I think that the deadline for re-supply should be shortened as well as in Article 37, where the ministry, the competent ministry, is not required to participate in the proposed way by giving an opinion on the spatial-planned documents brought by the Croatian Government or the Croatian Parliament. But we also think that we should support them in that part where they give their opinions on the adoption of spatial plans of municipalities, cities and counties. The last thing, in Article 50, the questions of passing expert examinations, licensing of companies and the powers of the Croatian Forest Chamber to be established by a special law should be regulated in other ways. I will certainly support this Law, with these remarks, which, in the form of amendments, Mr. President, I will propose to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47271	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47272	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the Law on Forests should, however, be put in the political context of the events in the last 50, 60 years. During this period, the rural space in Croatia has been systematically neglected. That process was called deagrarization and I'm going to talk about it, actually in this law from that aspect. Namely, the Law on Forests of 1991 gave all unprocessed forest land that was run as a universal property and so on, the Government gave management of the Croatian forests and thus many surfaces entered under the auspices of the Croatian forests even though they were not absolutely forest land. Such a legal provision in times of war and transitional turmoil was possible and justified, but today it has become a brake for many development programs, economic zones, raising vineyards, olive groves, orchards and the like. I believe that, immediately after the end of the Homeland War, a new Forest Law proposal was to be passed. It is certain that, with much more planted olive groves and vineyards, we would wait for entry into the European Union at least when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County. The then government, but also the Government behind it and as a society, have not generally recognized the moment in Dalmatia's agriculture to adapt the laws to the needs of new farmers in the cultivation of vines and olives, today thanks to the technique and technology of olives and vines are planted in areas where only 10 years ago it was unimaginable. The doubts that this law does not address, however, are agricultural or forest land, and therefore, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a spatial distinction between agricultural and forest land needs to be made. The Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Forests are in conflict with the definition of land. Article 4 Forest laws provide definitions of what is forest and forest land. Thus, the forest under this law is considered to have been grown by trees made up on a surface larger than 10 acres and forest land under this law is considered to be the land on which the forest is grown or which, due to its natural management conditions, is intended to be the most favourable for forest cultivation. By contrast, the Law on Agricultural Land says to agricultural land within the meaning of this law are considered orans, gardens, orchards, vineyards, meadows, pastures, ponds and swamps. The pastures were declared forest land by the Law of the Forests, although they listed agricultural land in the agricultural land management strategy and in the Agricultural Land Act as agricultural land. Furthermore, this proposal of the Forest Act proposed a qualification, contrary to... classification of forest resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As it is known within the Member States of the European Union, there is no such thing as a category of forest and forest land. So today it is said that the forests in Croatia cover 43% of the surface. It's almost incredible and impossible, because in France, for example, the woods cover 27.7. That's 43 percent of what's in it. forest land which, from the point of view of the national economy, is potentially interesting for agriculture, livestock, olive growing, etc. The definition of forest land uses the notion of the most favourable for forest cultivation. It is a question of who found it, in which way it is determined that even in those places where vineyards and olive groves were once grown, it is now declared to be the most favourable for growing forests. So, in abandoning pastures and declaring and pastures by forest land, we don't speak, because we know that certain mountains are Dinara, Svilaj, Kameshnica, etc. ideal for pastures, but here they are today in forest land. In Article 53, it says that the burned areas of the forest cannot be brought to another culture for 5 years since the fire. Does this mean that erosion, and we know that it's the biggest behind the fire, so we need to take the whole country to declare some land, give us the right of service for some other cultures, olives or vineyards, I think that would be it. Article 57 defines that a service can be established in the forest and forest land to carry out certain activities, which is positive. Unfortunately, the implementation of these provisions so far has been very slow from many problems. I can only say that in the Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County area of the 1st month are requirements for 420 hectares, only 20 hectares are positively resolved. So these people who have made a request since last year, they've lost a year and I say it's very difficult to realize. I'd like to point out for local self-government units, I think this law should be subject to an amendment, of course I'm going to intervene, so I'm going to submit that to Article 51. This Article 51, which speaks of property-legal relations, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and singles out and transfers ownership rights on forest land to the local self-government unit for those purposes that it provided for in the spatial plan, gives both county and ministry consent, therefore nothing unsolicited could happen, and this would be significant for local self-government to influence its development. I think with these changes if they could happen and if possible in this, that with as much forest land as possible, we would enter the crops, the orchards, the vineyards and everything else, I think we would be much more willing to enter the European Union than to leave it as is the law now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47273	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47274	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think that this law, which has brought great attention to the Croatian public, is, in particular, the headship, municipalities and cities on the one hand, but I would also say civil associations dealing with environmental protection on the other. I would certainly like to emphasise, when it comes to this law, that this is also the first Croatian full law, because the current and current law, the current law that we have had, is actually a copy of the law from the former state, and since a major step has been made here in the adoption of this law is also in this direction that it is in some way consistent, not in some way, but also in accordance with European standards, or with the legal acquis of the European Union. The promoter was certainly guided in the proposal for this law in terms of the conservation of forests and the conservation of the natural environment, but he also absorbed me in a quality way, an economic aspect when it comes to forest management and forest land. However, I must say that in this law there is also a manuscript of the Croatian forests and there is still a conservative, not in a negative sense, one conservative approach is preserved when it comes to the law itself, in terms of the preservation of forests, given their impact and importance when it comes to climate impact, soil fertility, and on the other hand, we all know that the forests are an indicator of human intervention in nature and even when it comes to pollution, both globally and globally. The current law, and in part this will be a brake in some way of economic development, but I believe that acts, sublaws, regulations and regulations can avoid it. I can say that in the past few years, given the wishes of the units of local self-government and their economic plans in terms of the development of the economy in the area of working zones, this issue was not in any way resolved by the government's regulation of April or March 2005. A regulation has been adopted to transfer ownership rights to units of local self-government provided that they have met certain criteria at the price of one kuna per hectare. The property-legal relations treated in Article 51 on which Mr. Rebic spoke would also join that thinking by making my proposal stand for the interest of the Republic of Croatia as a general interest. I know, now to interpret what is general and what is state interest or city we all know, there is no need but I think that in this way he would have been better hit in this matter because he does not have to be, in any case, the interest of the Republic of Croatia does not have to be matched or must be state-owned in some way what is the interest of some small municipality or some city and for them it is very important. That's what I'm saying because transfer of ownership would be easier to regulate and transfer to local self-government units. What is very problematic for me so far was and will remain and future is the fact when it comes to building areas that it will remain questionable even though it means a spatial plan in some local self-government unit has passed all the procedures and received the consent of the competent ministries and thus we are coming back to the situation that each individual must enter into one procedure at the time of entering the building permit, that is to say, to be the owner of a particular plot. I think it would be much more flexible, more practical to transfer it to units of local self-government mainly those in the area of special state care and where urbanisation has not yet taken some kind of wave and given that the price of this land is relatively low and thus would avoid large administrations and would allow units of local self-government to resolve municipal and other infrastructures. My comments refer to Article 53 when it comes to the burned surfaces and I think it should be deleted. I'll explain that to the next one. I believe that this Article 53 suspends the provisions of Articles 51 and 57. Therefore, he was inserted here but I am aware that the applicant's intensity was to prevent fires deliberately from setting fires but I think it should be regulated through other laws, or it should be sanctioned in the manner in which it is prescribed by criminal and other laws. This article shall, in any event, suspend the application of the provisions laid down in Articles 51 and 57 for a period of five years. What I would also say and what I think is important, I would also mention forest infrastructure. I can say that we are in the Dalmatian Zagora, that we feel in some way interrupted because we are aware that forest land or forests in our area is not worth God knows what, however, we are left in these fires, the summer fires that appear to ourselves and we believe that forest infrastructure when it comes to roads it can also be the backbone of development when it comes to livestock farming, when it comes to agriculture. In the area of the Cetina region I can say that there are several... which thanks to the fact that in the last six, seven years several of these forest roads have been made that people are returning to these hot and mountainous mountainous mountains and that cattle farming is being revived slowly and on the other hand, and roads are also important in terms of some addition when it comes to the development of tourism in Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to say that since Croatia's forests are lords with forest land and forests as a commercial society that has certain objections to deforestation and in terms of black pine, I believe that it is in some way a direct intervention in terms of flora and fauna and that we have a lot of objections from people in the Dalmatian area that near their houses, especially those dealing with livestock, are planting a black pine which de facto can say freely when it comes to pastures pollutes the environment. Therefore, there should be little filling, feelings for people living in those areas and listening to their voice. Therefore, any intervention in the case of deforestation should be in line with local self-government units. That's it. I hope that in terms of forest infrastructure and the noise that units of local self-government will be heard and I believe that property-legislative relations and the way they are conceived in Articles 51 and 57 are not poorly imagined, however, should make sublaws, regulations and regulations easier to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47275	Thank you very much. At 16,15, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47276	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, my replica was higher but Mrs. Maria Byte came into your video circle and you didn't see it. She was referring to the addition of what Mr. Niko was saying, namely, about the issue of forest land management. I will say one of the most ferocious examples of poor management in the Istria area when municipalities and cities, I don't know but certainly not legal, recorded over forest land, so this is land by the sea area of municipalities and cities in Istria and now what is happening is happening. They shared it, under quotes, sold favorably to their own. At that time, construction was not allowed. Afterwards, urban plans were changed, allowed to be built, and it happened that these values had become twenty times higher, and this was committed in 2002, as set out in the State Inspectorate and dedicated to the State's Attorney's Office, but until today, this bench was not unwrapped. So this just says what the value is and what it's all about and what crime it's about. But there's no Damir Caine when I say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47277	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47278	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Forests are a natural wealth and one of the most significant resources of the Republic of Croatia, it is unequivocal. In addition, the data show that forests and forest land cover almost 44% of land area and the forests themselves about 37%, we have heard this from others who have been exposed. It is certain that this data places us in order of the more forested countries of Europe. It is particularly important to note that Croatia is one of the few European countries whose forests have a predominantly natural structure. I am convinced that this has also contributed to the successful management of our forests, which has been witnessed by the 150-year tradition of forest profession and science. Forests still need to be managed ecologically and socially, responsibly and economically effectively. In future, this proposed Forest Act should ensure integrated management of forest eco-systems throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia in a way that ensures the stability of the eco-system, biodiversity, self-renewability, productivity and the development of common beneficial forest functions. What must also resolve this law is to ensure a unique economic approach to the private-owned forest as well. I believe that it will also contribute to the establishment of a forest advisory service and the operation of a forest advisory service prescribed in Article 68 of the proposed law. The law regulates the structure and jurisdiction of a forest inspection on whose quality and efficiency in supervision depends and enforcement of the provisions and intensities of the law itself. The Institute of Service Rights is also being introduced as one of the instruments in solving property legal relations. The law also offers solutions for other economic issues related to forest management and forest land such as the use of mineral raw materials and spatial planning. As a representative from Vukovar-Srijem County, I am particularly pleased to express Article 65, which, for the distribution of funds and forest contributions with local self-government units instead of 2.5%, increases to 3.5%, while for mountain and mountain areas of special state concern, the forest contribution is proposed 5%. It is good to introduce licensing of contractors, forest management as well as the formation of a forest chamber that will license authorised contractors. Finally, I hold this proposed Law on Forests with a good proposal, so if the current administration of the Croatian Forests and the Supervisory Board deserve praise for the positive business results they have achieved, I believe that the adoption and implementation of this Law will, once it is accepted, contribute to an even better and more successful operation of the Croatian Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47279	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47280	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Functional changes within the trading company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. the new social economic circumstances of the obligation to comply with the European Union directives, and the novelty due to a number of amendments, the addition of the past two decades requires changes to the Law on Forests. The new Law is based on a conventional way of managing forests with respect to the provisions of the directives and conventions that we as signatories are. The right of management in the state forests has a state-owned company, the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The company is functionally and spatially three-degreely organized. Directorate based in Zagreb, 16 regional administrations and 171 forests. Forests are basic organizations, spatial areas of forest management. In addition to the woods there are working units to perform the forest and... transport of wood, forest construction and other activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian forests had 17 daughters who were returned to the Croatian Forests Porostel in 2000, with about 10,000 permanent employees. Of the total number of employees, 13% are in the directorate, forest management, 73% are in the woods and 14% are in the working units. In addition to constantly employed Croatian forests during the year, about 600 workers are employed for a certain time, mainly in the time of intensive labour cultivation and the implementation of forest protection measures against fire. Of the total number of employees, technical and administrative staff participates with more than 50%. Other employees are mostly forest workers. Besides employees in Croatian forests d.o.o. There are still about 700 entrepreneurs with about 5,000 employees, for certain jobs in forest activities on a contractual basis such as wolf, memory, shaming and the like. The emergence of business losses along with other problems in the manufacturing business process has accelerated the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, to submit proposals for the reorganisation and restructuring of the Croatian forests. By approaching the European Union, the degree of capital investment in forests will be reduced and, therefore, the policy of forestry is gradually directed towards the social employment policy and financing of the ecological component, such as investment in the restoration and protection of damaged forest habitats and the rise, improvement of the economic and protection of private forests. In this Proposal for a Law, provisions are incorporated between the following Directives and conventions which we are signatories and which relate in specific ways to forest management. Natural rejuvenation, variety of species, conservation of natural habitats, care of animal species, forest, conservation and improvement of general useful forest functions and others. Introducing... As an additional institution for the resolution of property legal relations, it reduces and speeds up the process, the establishment of documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law provides opportunities for research and scientific and teaching institutions to target their activities on forest protection, conservation, and promotion and management projects in a commercial way, as scientific works and observation will be financed directly from forestry. The law addresses a number of other issues that improve the provisions of the existing law and thus clearly define procedures, relationships and concepts in the area of forestry that have caused doubts or different interpretations by the existing law. Sustainable management should be further ensured by measures to protect, preserve and improve forest eco-systems due to increasingly frequent and more pronounced calamities as a result of general disturbances in nature. Rehabilitation of damaged forest eco-systems requires a new approach to this problem since resolutions are a long-term process and must start as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible. The law introduces order on forest roads, regulation of how to use, maintain, prevent, mark and other regulations that are not yet in force. In view of the organisational changes shown and changes in the financial nature of the law, the establishment of a forest advisory service is envisaged, and the transfer of administrative legal and administrative affairs related to international cooperation, observation and monitored conditions and adaptation to the European Union to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy. The allocation of compensation funds for the general services of forests and other forest owners and not only to state forests is more justly arranged by this Bill proposal and will promote sustainable forest management and forest development as a leading economic activity. Especially in the rural area of the state. The aim is to improve the situation in private forests, which through the forest advisory service are intended to achieve by encouraging the education of forest owners to increase wood supply on market principles. For the sustainable management and preservation of common useful forest functions, the promotion of land by European principles, the application of forest achievements and mergers, owners of small forest properties can thus achieve additional revenues and on rural areas find an alternative to obtaining income other than agriculture, which has often been the case so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47281	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47282	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia are good for general interest and enjoy special protection of the state and are used under conditions prescribed by the forest laws. The forests in the Republic of Croatia cover 37% of total state territory and together with forest land make up a unique forest economic area. About 2.5 million acres of total surface area. Of that, we've heard that, 81% is state-owned. The main feature of our forests is that 95% are natural unlike many Europeans who are not. Because of the intense expansion in Europe, auktokton forests were destroyed, which were replaced by rapidly growing species, so monoculture was created. Forests consisting of a kind of trees that are planted in the habitat are not auktoktones which make them particularly sensitive and environmentally less stable eco systems. The importance of forests in the world is growing not only because of their multiple benefits, land protection, erosion, floods, but also because of their large role in climate change. Forest sector representation in the gross domestic product in 2000 was 1.4% with a share of the industry of 0.5%, the pulp industry 4% and the wood and wood products industry 0.5%. The area of forestry and wood industry is a significant source of employment, especially in rural areas. In these activities, about 49,000 workers were employed, out of which about 10,000 workers were employed in the trading company of Croatia's forest. Forest workers employ 6 thousand, and occasional employment in forestry reaches 4000. In the primary processing of wood or half a thousand, and in furniture production, 11 thousand 600, in the pulp and paper industry, close to 6 thousand people. Despite everything, the vast potential of forests and forest surfaces has not yet been used to the end. The improved management of forests can be increased, can increase the production of goods and services, thus helping to create additional jobs and income, and added value. This law therefore addresses a number of issues that improve the provisions of the existing law, and thus more clearly define the procedures and relations in the area of forestry which have led to doubts and possible different interpretations in the current law. Furthermore, the final proposal of the Forest Act regulates the management right of the owner in the selection and management and distribution of profits, while the right of management in the state forests has a state-owned company. The company will have to operate on market principles and become competitive on the domestic and foreign markets. For this reason, parts of the company or certain activities will be privatised. At that stage, the restructuring of the company will create a surplus workforce. The social dimension of this law is reflected in the provision of excess labour through the licensing of forest works, which will maintain the current level of expertise and quality according to realistic estimates. The establishment of the Forest Chamber provided for by this law will further introduce labour market order in the conditions expected. This law provides opportunities for scientific and scientific and educational institutions to focus on projects to protect, preserve forests and improve management. A forest advisory service whose primary task is to improve forest management and forest land management, forest owners, and the exercise of public authority in that area. The issues of acquiring ownership of foreign nationals over forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia are being settled in a way that binds the exercise of this right to the provisions of applicable international contracts. The law also allocates funds paid for the generally useful functions of the forest to the company’s special account for the management of forests owned by the State and forest owners under the regulation of the Minister with the control, i.e. administrative and inspection of the supervision of the ministry. Such a model imposes the need for increasing investment in forest habitats whose devastation is increasing daily and in forests of forest owners where management is growing, in which management is increasingly abandoned due to the depletion of properties, devastion and small wood supplies. It also provides for the establishment and introduction of registers and the keeping of registers of forest owners. The transition of the Forest Inspectorate and the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, the water economy forestry inspection supervision is set up as two-stage, including the organisation's current method by area units in the first degree, and the second stage inspection was established in the ministry. As this law is in the second reading, and the proposer has observed most of the remarks from the first reading, all doubt and possible different interpretations under the provisions of this law have been resolved. Therefore, this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47283	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a few sentences now almost at the end of this law. I won't, I think the law's done enough. So far, his colleagues have talked a lot about him. I think those important things that have been said certainly refer to that article that is related to land regulation, fire-fired land that can be given for use for agricultural purposes, primarily in olive growing and vineyarding. Yes, if you should always consider whether it is possible to do so as usefully as possible. I think it's good to regulate it by law. As you know, a rule has been passed that began the situation, and I think that in that part, it is certainly such a legal proposal to welcome. What's still here in a certain way, change is certainly a forest advisory service. I think it should be welcomed, and today it may not have been said about the establishment of the Forest Advisory Service and how much I know it will, at first, be established for private forest owners, but in the future, that if it will have to take over that function that is intended for it and that if it is a function for the entire forests in Croatia. But I will allow myself to say a few sentences, not directly related to the law, but something that we need to pass this law. What is not explained to me and what may not even be clear to me today is to give up decentralisation of Croatian forests through the fact that the greater the role of local units, which is primarily meant by forests, not local units in this part, and also in the distribution of profits, depending on what a particular forest area is accomplishing. In this way, the proposal has been avoided and certain units of local self-government are given a share of the money through, and perhaps a fairer part, which is the share of forest wealth that local self-government has. But I think the pressure of the unit of local self-government on a particular forest area and overall decentralisation would lead to some improvements, so that if it stays with the ministry, all those whose competence is for the Croatian forest to deal with the issue. Because we have examples in our neighborhood, from the Austrian forest to some others where there is still a certain decentralisation, including decentralisation in terms of and the commercial part, etc., but also unification at the level of commercials in that part of the job. What I would like here to note, and very directly and clearly, is one part of the job that is later, which we will unfortunately not even solve by this law, which is part of the work that is ahead of us, part of a job called the restructuring of Croatian forests. Unfortunately, all those who have taken this job so far, so I would say that we who have participated in it have reached a certain point, and that was also the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Irish company which has not been challenged by today's Government and which has made a good proposal for restructuring. Unfortunately, it has been two years since then, and nothing has been done in that part of the job. I'm afraid by delaying restructuring and serious accession to this business, we're postponing a job that we're going to have to do. I am saying this for a simple reason because so far we are all witnesses to have some laws come to us in the Croatian Parliament, such as yesterday's Law on State Support, which we must accept because we are almost free to say it, the European Union is ordering us to do so. I'm afraid we don't prepare for certain things, miss a certain amount of time, and then we'll have to do as our people say, by "mus" accept certain things, and I'd say, bring the wrong solution. It is a great resource, a great wealth of the Republic of Croatia, and I am again grateful to all the foresters because it is a pride when you hear and when you are somewhere in the symposiums almost all over Europe and even in the world, that Croatia has to rise up with its beautiful forests. However, in order to really use that resource properly, we need to take more seriously this job I've been talking about. So here's the words, and here's a request for the authorities in this part, because I think that's the general benefit that will certainly bring good to the Republic of Croatia, and if we wait, I think we'll all have problems with those workers that I would say at a big turning point in certain problems. We will find ourselves in the problem of the big investment that we have invested, and we have not chosen to go in some way in privatisation and only the business that should be doing Croatian forests, so here is the appeal that we, who are here and on the Supervisory Board, contribute to the rapid restructuring and determination of this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47285	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47286	I'd just like to correct my colleague, he said no one mentioned the advisory service. I did not just listen to an esteemed representative, read that a forest advisory service was established whose basic task is to improve and manage forests and forest land of forest owners and to exercise public authority in the area. So you weren't listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47287	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47288	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. After these discussions, I can only say that, as I initially said, forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia represent a large and rich resource. The same resource also affects the life of certain, almost all parts, and especially those areas where this noise is very pronounced and large as we have said mountainous areas and areas of special state concern. Surely this law cannot solve all things, but here we wanted through and increasing the forest contribution and through investment in private forests from other means and through... and other things to return one part clearly to the local communities where this natural wealth is exploited. [[You don't understand.]] There were also a lot of words, so here is the final one, about the reorganization of Croatian Forest companies. Surely we're aware that it's a pretty big bite to run, a lot of things have already been done. Certain preparations are being made, and certainly we will not stop but in this we will insist that this company be done in such a way as to make it much better and better quality in its business to decentralise this system in the sense that these responsibilities and obligations that we are constantly talking about are brought down to the lowest levels, which are the administrations of forests, or forests, where this production and happens. About the financing of certain works, farming, I think it's settled well in the law if it's read a little better. Funding has been resolved on one side of biological reproduction, financing extended reproduction, as well as spending the resources of generally beneficial forest functions. Clearly, all this investment in the forest must not be on the part where that part of the economic overexpression is being expressed but I said it must be social and ecological and that sustainable management must be present. As far as these services are concerned, so far the government's programme covers 6 thousand and 300 hectares of forest, land for raising three-year plantations, and is now preparing another specific area to round up about 10,000 hectares. I'm here these few months as far as I'm concerned, and I can see that there may be a lot of problems in the realisation of that, but we're on the verge that we're all going to get the fastest and the most quality of the same solution so that on these surfaces that are intended for these things and happen to lift these multi-year crops either through the vine line, either through the olive groves. Clearly, this other part and the sublegal acts will be dealt with a lot so that some of the issues that have been opened here will be resolved in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47289	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Forest Act. We have a plate of amendments. Where are the foresters? Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go. Are you ready? Thank you. Amendment 1 to the HSP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47291	It is not accepted, this amendment is not accepted for reasons because that proposal cannot be accepted because it is professionally unfounded. In the Republic of Croatia, the conditions of forest management are adapted to one main species, and in case of increased drying, the measures are taken in other provisions of this law and sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47292	Who's going on behalf of the proposer? Dear Representative Tonci Tadic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47293	Your Honor, Mr. President. We are still looking for a vote on this amendment, because we hold that this enables better forest management.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47294	Thank you. Please engage. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? We can vote. The result? For Amendment 14, abstentions 9, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment to the same club of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47295	A different formulation is not accepted than proposed. In the text of this law, it is not necessary because the content, the required content, the classification of the forest remains essentially the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47296	A colleague of Tonchi Tadic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47297	Mr. President, we still hold that this amendment should be adopted because it is much better to sort the forests that we propose, given the diversity of the forests in Croatia. On the functions of forests, types of forests of embossed diversity, habitats and species which are the main ones in them and therefore result in methods of working with forests. And from there again and ways to sort the woods. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47298	Please. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 13 for, 8 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47299	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47300	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth, the HSP rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47301	It's unacceptable. As the provision on the distribution of the profits of the company in the budget of the units of local self-government has been deleted from the final proposal of this law. There is no basis for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47302	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47303	The amendment is withdrawn. Thank you. Amendment number five, Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47304	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47305	It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth, same representative, Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47306	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47307	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seventh, Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47308	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47309	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eighth, Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47310	It shall be accepted in part in such a way as to fully accept the proposed amendments in paragraphs 1, 3 and 4, and the amendment to the text in paragraph 2 shall be proposed so as to read: "The tasks of the licensing of persons for the performance of forest work, the conduct of expert examinations for authorised engineers, and the management of the directory of authorised forestry engineers shall be carried out by the Forest Chamber which will be established under a special regulation.".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47311	Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47312	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47313	That is, the amendment accepted in paragraph 2 in this amended form by the Secretary of State. Amendment nine, representative of Nika Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47314	It's unacceptable. Such a formulation would already condition the adoption of spatial plans and change in the purpose of forest land, which is not in line with Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to which the forest is of special interest of the Republic of Croatia, should therefore be protected and, in particular, by the provision of Article 37(2) of this Act, which speaks the exceptions which may be planned for construction in the forest and forest land and under what conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47315	Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47316	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47317	Thank you. Amendment 9 withdrawn. Amendment 10, Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47318	It's unacceptable. This item would be contrary to paragraphs 1 and 2 of the same article and would be subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 55 of this Act which provide for the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in cases of demarcation from the forest-economic area and forest land as well as compensation for the commercial company for the purchase of new forests in the event of segregation. The issue is also the constitutionality of the proposed provisions because the purpose of the forest... of the construction area can also not be changed to the owner but only under certain conditions and exceptional.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47319	Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47320	Thank you, Mr. President. I have submitted this amendment for two reasons. One reason is because of the rapid establishment of entrepreneurship zones in local self-government units, and of course all in order to speed up employment. This indicates the need to give forest land owned by units of local self-government if, of course, the same is found in the local self-government unit's spatial plan if it is within the construction area's borders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which requires a unit of local self-government to grant construction land for the housing of Croatian defenders, and since most units of local self-government do not have the right building land for the purpose of that purpose, indicates the need to amend that legislation, because despite the fact that the land available is located within the limits of the construction area of the settlement cannot actually stand for this purpose because it is owned by the Croatian forests, i.e. the Republic of Croatia and a wasteful vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47321	Thank you. Please engage. You can vote. The result? 23 for the amendment, 2 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, also representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47322	It's unacceptable. Since no previous amendment has been accepted, i.e. that paragraph 6 is added in Article 51, and this amendment is referring to that particular paragraph, this proposed amendment shall not be accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47323	Yes, since this previous amendment has not been accepted, then this amendment is now groundless and I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47324	Thank you. Amendment 11 withdrawn. 12, MP Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47325	It's unacceptable. Respecting the new law that regulates higher education and new titles to be obtained by it, their first-graders will only be placed on the labour market for three or five years, and in order to obtain a condition for inspectors they still have to do at least five years in the profession and to quote these titles for the time being not yet provided in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47326	There's no representative. We have to vote. Please engage. Who's up for that amendment? The result? For Amendment 13, 6 abstentions, 68 v, did not receive the required majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Forest Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 6 against the Law on Forests in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We will now return to - Decision on amendments to the Statutes of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts - Confirmation of the proposal was submitted to the HAZ, in accordance with Article 6. I would like a representative of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Academyman Jaksu Barbic, to briefly explain the proposal to amend and supplement the statutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47328	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is the first time since 1996 when its amendment was adopted. The changes are not large, they are conditioned by the needs of improving the work of the Academy. I'm going to tell you very briefly what this is about. The Statute contains provisions in the way members were chosen and certain provisions were such that it was not clear what they were actually trying to achieve. At that time, in these dilemmas of things, the Academy dealt with a practice that had settled down for years, but it always demanded in the congregation that questions be renovated whether they were so or not. It was therefore logical for the Academy to approach the amendments to the statutes, to unambiguously determine the standards that were needed, and all comes down to a number of key issues. The first of them is the question of whether some academics can be excluded from the quorum and from most when deciding if they can no longer physically attend the sessions. In order to enable the work of that body of the Assembly and other bodies in the Academy, it is then envisaged that these bodies can decide that these several academics who are indeed of age that they can no longer function are excluded from the quorum, but not only from the quorum but from the majority in deciding not to create a problem for their votes to be automatically against. Secondly, as far as most people are concerned, it is proposed that instead of being able to be proposed if only a third of the votes in the class to be half the votes now, because it is more normal and much more serious and then one change that is very significant, which is that the presidency is given a more significant role in equating the criteria for the election of members of the Academy so that there is no excess towards individual classes. The rest are practically technical issues and there is nothing more important to mention. There is one question that I will raise here that has appeared before the committees and is now resolved both in the Committee on Legislatives and in the other committee that is responsible for this, and this was the question whether the Academy must prescribe in its statute the full selection procedure of associates not members of the Academy but professional and other co-workers. This should take into account not only the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education but also the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Art and accept the solution offered, which is that the key things are governed by the Statute and technical details by the Regulation, because otherwise it could happen that every amendment of the law should change the statutes, that means passing 13 bodies in the Academy and burdening the Croatian Parliament to each time confirm the changes that are technical in nature. Therefore, the Statute of the Academy has now provided that these purely technical issues, not the jurisdiction of the election, not the things that are normally going on, but the technical questions of the offices of one of the Regulations, which is also adopted by the Assembly, and we have explained it on committees and discussed it with the competent ministry, and here this would be, as soon as possible, what I would say and ask you to open the debate and possibly, not possibly, but to confirm this Statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47329	Do we confirm it eventually or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47330	Well, it's in your hands, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47331	President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47332	Mr. President, Mr. Academy. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 2 November, 9 and 16 November of this year the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the provisions of Article 6(3). Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts President of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts on 14 October 2005. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. Following an explanation of the representatives of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, then considering the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 3 November 2005, and the subsequent indication of the representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the debate, it was concluded that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts had dealt with justified legal and technical reasons when it provided for amendments and additions in Article 10, i.e. that the issues of choice in scientific, cooperative and professional titles would be regulated by a special regulation, not directly by the HAZU Statute. Other objections which may be referred to the amendments to the HAZU Statutes in question are not of such a nature as to prevent the granting of this certificate, and the relevant HAZU services may accept them through the already envisaged technical correction procedure. So, after the debate was held, a unanimous conclusion has been reached, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to confirm the amendments and additions to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts since 13 October 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47333	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47334	Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Academyman, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the document ahead of us. This is a decision on amendments to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. There have been some discussions on the bodies, so I'd just like to give some necessary explanations. In this decision on amendments and amendments to the Statutes, we have two groups of articles. One that aligns this Statute with 2 basic laws. These are the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. And another group of members talked about by academics Barbic who make it easier for them to actually work and allow for regular selection procedures for new members. As for compliance with the existing Law, there were several different opinions of the Ministry and the Government, which are harmonised, namely the following. The Academy is, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is founded as a scientific institution in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. As such, it has a whole series of tasks to be included in its statute. This is not done to the end for the simple reason that the same basic Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in Article 22(2) determines that, because of its special importance, a special Law is adopted on the Academy. So we have another law, it's the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which also defined a whole series of things that should not be defined by this statute now. As a result, we believe that this Statute has been harmonised in Articles 2, 7, 10 and 12. Article 2 is replaced by the following: Among other things, they choose expert commissions to choose in the scientific co-operational professional titles and propose to the presidency the choice of candidates and professional and co-operational titles. In Article 7, regular members of the Academy receive a new duty, which is to participate in the selection process in scientific, co-operation and professional titles. Article 10 implements the request of our ministry and our Government, which is to adopt a specific rules on choice in scientific, co-operation and professional titles. Because if no regulation had been adopted, those rules would have been included in this Statute, the complications would have occurred at the time of the amendments to the conditions for choice in these calls. In that case, the statutes should be amended, meaning that the statute would have to be passed through 12 bodies of the Academy, the Assembly of the Academy, the section of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government and the Parliament in each of the amendments. That is why we have accepted this proposal to regulate all this by one special regulation that will be adopted. And in conclusion, because we believe that the regulation is fully in compliance with both basic laws, with the basic law and with the lex specialis of the Academy, we suggest that this subject be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47335	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Decision on amendments and additions to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, confirmation. I am voting in favour of the Decision confirming the Decision amending and supplementing the HAZU Statute adopted on 13 October 2005 by the Extraordinary Assembly of the HAZU. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 97 votes for, 1 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47338	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The so far Semen, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties was passed in 1997 and amended in 2003. As such, it has been consistent, but only in part with EU legislation, but it is this law that you will have to adopt that problem of compliance with the acquis of the European Union that should be fully resolved. The proposal of this Act shall be governed by three main areas. First, the production and trade of agricultural seed involving seeds of cereals, blood plants, olives and beautiful plants, tails, vegetables and potatoes. Second, the production and trade of agricultural fruit material, including fruit fruit material, fruit material for vines, transplants, vegetables, and fruit material of decorative plants. Also, the area of recognition of agricultural plant varieties and the formation of varieties is arranged. As regards the organisation and jurisdiction of individual bodies under the proposal of this Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy has been designated as the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the implementation of this Act and for the administrative oversight of this Act. It also becomes a central body in the process of certification of seeds and fruit material, the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, the management of varieties, the conservation of plant genetic sources of agricultural plants, and other jobs in the field of seeding and distribution. As regards inspection powers over this Act, the inspection authority shall have a agricultural inspection which shall carry out control of semen and fruit material on the market, then a phyto-sanitary inspection carrying out the control of imports of agricultural reproductive material at the border and shall carry out checks on fruit material on the market. Thirdly, the economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate who control seed and fruit material on the market under the jurisdiction to which they belong under the Law on Trade and the Consumer Protection. With regard to compliance with the acquis, this proposal first and foremost ensures the free movement of goods, seeds and fruit material on the Croatian market, as well as the future part of the European Union market, which is one of the key requirements of all EU regulations. The situation of suppliers and products originating in the European Union with suppliers and products originating in the Republic of Croatia shall also be equated. The position of recognised varieties is also equated, and the initiation of the process of recognition of varieties in the Member States of the European Union in such a way as to recognise them or to carry out the recognition procedure under this law. It also regulates the area of imports of goods from the Member States of the European Union for which imports are no longer considered to be imports after accession to the European Union. It should also be pointed out that the application of this law is delayed for 1 January 2008, because its application needs to be established and adapted, so that it can be organised and organised in the ministries and these bodies that are listed for its implementation and there is also a large-scale job on sublegal acts which have therefore 15 sublegal acts. As for the amendments we have received, so it is from the Committee on Law, they are nomotechnical in nature and are acceptable for us and in agreement with the Committee on Law we are also going with the Government's amendments which are also nomotechnical harmonisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47339	Thank you very much. The committees? Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session of the Proposal for a Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants with the final proposal for a law. We discussed this proposal as a parent body. The alleged introductory explanation of the ministry's representatives supported the proposal by the majority of votes, and passed the law by an urgent procedure. In the debate under the Proposal for a Law on Seeds, Fruit Material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties with the final proposal of the law, the majority of the members of the Committee supported its adoption. By supporting that law, the Committee members assessed that it would enable the rise of the quality of agricultural reproductive material, its free movement on the Croatian market, as well as on the part of the European market, in accordance with European Union decisions and directives. However, in the further debate, the opinion has been expressed that, regardless of the need for normative harmonisation with EU legislation, there is no hurry to pass this law, since there is uncertainty and uncertainty as long as its application is delayed on 1 January 2008. Some board members also hold that it is necessary to define the concept of a preserved plant genetic source, and that it is illogical to allow the production of varieties that have not passed the recognition process, i.e. are located in the last year of recognition, while at the same time preventing the sale of such material. The Institute for Winery and Winery as a well-organized institution is not mentioned in this law when it comes to the work relating to the reproductive material of the vine vine and the recognition of the varieties of the vine. Although the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms are also applicable to the production of placing on the market and the import of genetically modified agricultural material, it is concerned that this law will open up the possibility of a wider use of genetically modified reproductive material, especially seeds in Croatian agricultural production. On the basis of the debate held, the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Forestry decided to propose, by a majority of votes, 5 votes to, 2 abstentions, the adoption of this law to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47341	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47342	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's a few sentences about this law. What is evident from the discussion we had on the board is a law that will begin on 1 January 2008. It is a law which, let me not be resented here by the representatives of the Government, but the well-written directive of the European Union, and none of us at the Croatian Peasant Party Club dispute. However, whether only well-written European Union directives in our legislation without more detailed entry into the scale of things can bring about well in certain matter, and this is about the Law on Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants. It is our opinion that we should not go too quickly with certain laws, especially if they do not have a crucial importance. It is our opinion that this law will nevertheless serve only for our negotiators or for those who will participate in the screening that is very soon, in a way that we should boast here that we have some laws that are definitely in line with the European legislation and thus a little bit boast, and I have nothing against it, in a way that I would not have one sincere fear that it would harm us. So there's no urgency regarding the adoption of this law, there's no emergency procedure that would force us to bring it in as soon as we can until we're all a little deeper on the whole problem, we can't see what it means. Here's a banal example that you can read in a law that tells you so that each of you can come from any country, and especially from third countries bring seed into your pocket without showing it to the customs officer, because it's for your own use and you have a defined article. I'm asking one principle question that it's totally bypassing the Law on genetically modified organisms, because you need to know that today you can carry in your pocket a few bags of such fruit material or such seed, for example seeds, and in this way perhaps for a long time and perhaps irreversibly pollute our environment. I think that such a provision, which is most directly prescribed by the European Directive, I do not dispute it, but it definitely stands in this law. Unfortunately, there is also a very detailed possibility here, but the possibility that we are all here together when we talked about the GMO law is very clearly said that it is one very small possibility, one thing that must be put in place, which is that there will be opportunities related to seed material, but we have almost all defined together that this is an existing possibility because we are aware of what it would mean if GMO seeds are polluted by our agricultural land and what it would mean for the Republic of Croatia. Well, I'd say we're all here and we almost swore that all our counties would be declared GMO free, that is. Free of GMOs, but unfortunately here I'm afraid that here we regulate the entry of GMO seeds, which I think is much more dangerous than the GMO food that everyone has the right to choose on a particular shelf, and then in a way and decide in that part in this way. If we give little opportunities here, I'm afraid we've allowed something at the small door that we leave behind for those who come behind our children without seeing all the consequences. That is why I would like to appeal here primarily to representatives clubs and also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to re-evaluate whether this law is necessary because its adoption makes it very clear that we are talking about its application since 1 January 2008. If we need a law that we will pass and only apply in 2008 for reasons to say that we have translated something good from English I think it would be better to think about it a little bit more and all together to pass a law that would be suitable for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47343	Thank you very much. Final review by State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47344	I'd just like to briefly comment on this section for genetically modified organisms. In this regard, Article 1 of this Law states that the Law on genetically modified organisms is in charge of that area. Therefore, there is no possibility that this law would prescribe any stronger liberalisation regarding the use of GMOs without it being previously approved in the Law on genetically modified organisms. Therefore, Article 1(2). Therefore, this law is no more liberal than that of a law on genetically modified or nothing here can be arranged beyond what is prescribed there, so that there is no danger or problem and that Article 11 which describes that matter again, so it will only be applied by entering Croatia into the European Union. As for the adoption of the law and its postponement until 1 January 2008, I explained this in my opening statement. So we must first say in which direction we are going and then create the same legal framework so that we can make these strong directives and those regulations, so I said there are at least fifteen regulations that come out of it to leave time for us to adopt them and to bring them into line with the regulation of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47345	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47346	Mr. President, so I'm correcting an incorrect quote, but if you'll allow me, I'll only take the opportunity to quote the article correctly in the 73rd, so it'll all be clear. "The small quantities of seeds in the original packaging imported for personal purposes by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia may be introduced without the application of a fit health inspector and shall not be subject to supervision under Article 69(1) of this law and the rules adopted under this law." Which is definitely saying that GMO seeds can be entered. What does it mean for your own needs? What does that mean? If someone has a longer pocket, maybe they'll bring in three, four kilos. The one with the smaller pocket will be able to get a lot more in. But I think it now depends on the size and strength of a man, etc. But definitely this article allows it and it doesn't stand in the GMO Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47347	Okay. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs, was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. The government's amendments were delivered within the deadline and became an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Secretary of State? Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. We can vote. The result? I find that with 89 votes for, 2 abstentions and 7 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47351	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and MPs! The proposed law does not change the basic settings of the now applicable Hunting Act but complement them, elaborate or add more detail as a consequence of the changes that have taken place since 1994. This law gives hunting a significantly wider dimension so that breeding, protecting, hunting, using game besides economics gives tourism, recreational and sports importance, making the normative order of hunting equal to the hunting legislation of most European countries that are competitive on our hunting tourism market. First of all, the law provides support to hunt-authors who manage well in a way that enables long-term management, order on the market, surveillance and support in the management of hunting grounds. The law adopts all European principles, starting with the international advice on game hunting, breeding and protection, all international conventions and world standards on nature protection, the protection and conservation of game, its habitats, conservation of biological balance. The new legal solutions seek to introduce more order in hunting starting with the management of hunting grounds in the cultivation, protection, hunting and traffic of game and its parts and use of hunting weapons. He wants to encourage hunting customs and traditions, strengthen hunting ethics and more effectively involve hunters and their associations in the development and improvement of hunting as important industries of our country. The main issues that are covered by this law are the harmonisation of laws with European Union regulations. The Central Hunting Record is established, which will be conducted by the Ministry, in which all data will be provided from the hunting economic base and the game breeding programme, as well as the shooting data and the game trophies. For the sake of more professional and quality management of deer and giants, breeding areas will be determined. Private hunting sites and joint hunting sites are established by the County Assembly of the City of Zagreb and the state hunting sites are established by the minister. This law provides for the possibility of extending the leases in the national and common hunting grounds for the next ten years if the poacher carried out the measures and actions prescribed by the contract. It is also possible to modify the contractual lease ratio in the concession in the case of larger investment investments in hunting-technical, hunting-economic facilities in the national hunting grounds. This stimulates the hunting authorities to manage the hunting grounds in a qualitative manner. The hunting-economic bases bring money to the authorities and they are approved by the ministry. The brown bear hunt is carried out on the basis of a brown bear management action plan in the Republic of Croatia for a year it brings and implements the ministry on a proposal from the National Commission for the Development of the Brown Bear Management Plan and the Follow-up of the Big Beast Population. It is prescribed that it is forbidden to hunt game in a belt 300 metres from the edge of the settlement in the valley and prigorje and 200 meters in the hill-mounted area. Traffic with game and game are more precisely defined. A gamer may be taken or transported outside the hunting grounds only with confirmation of the origin of the game issued by a hunting authorisation and a large gamer may be held and placed on the market if it is marked with an appropriate mark. Everything else will be considered a poacher. Also, for the placing of game animals and its parts on the market, processing, processing, exporting is required certificates prescribed by the Veterinary Act. The funds are allocated in a way 50% of the funds for land owners without the right to hunt, through the budget of the City of Zagreb County. These funds will be used for owners without hunting rights but for the development and promotion of hunting. 30% in the budget, 10% in the account of the Ministry of Protection and Protection of State Hunting not under contract, the damage from game in these hunting grounds, the cost of competitions, promotions, the development of information and 10% in the account of the County and the City of Zagreb, and the protection and preservation of common hunting sites that are not leased, the damage from game in these hunting grounds, the costs of the events carried out. It is possible to adopt orders to ban hunting of certain species of game, as well as to reduce the number of species of game that threatens human, livestock, other game or other damage. The hunting exam, the hunting exams for hunters, the examinations for the savage trophy assessors are conducted by the Croatian Hunting Union and other legal persons authorised by the ministry. The hunting cards are issued by the Croatian Hunting Union. The hunting inspection shall be organised in two stages and the work of the hunting inspector may be carried out by persons who have completed the Foresting Faculty of Foresting, Agronomic or Veterinary Faculty with a college of hunting. This law addresses a number of other issues that I believe will contribute to better and better quality management of over a thousand hunting sites in the Republic of Croatia as many as there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47352	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee also discussed the Law in question at its 32nd session as a parent body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the ministry. We had in this topic as suggested by the Committee, the thematic session, which we held in Brezovica. In a comprehensive debate involving representatives of the Croatian Hunting Union, the Green Action Association, the Committee members supported the adoption of this Act but it was pointed out that some of the proposed solutions should be reconsidered and some more clearly defined. Thus, it is considered that it should be prohibited to set up hunting grounds in nurseryes, fruit and vine plantations intended for intensive production and on areas larger than 100 hectares if they are installed. In practice, there are a number of built-in orchards and... for which more people work over the years, so the danger of suffering is greater. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been pointed out that the ban on the establishment of hunting grounds should also be extended to pastures used in the cow, calf system, because the quality of that breeding as one of the strategic objectives of Croatian livestock farming should not be undermined by enabling hunting in such pastures. It is questionable to further resolve the provisions of Article 15(3) of the Treaty. In fact, there is a possibility that some entities may be in a more favourable position than others. The members of the Committee agreed with the Croatian Hunting Union that the provisions of Articles 23 and 30 which, as a guarantee for the orderly execution of the concession or lease, are in question threefold, i.e. the double amount of the annual lease. In view of the better allocation of concession funds in Article 27, the satisfaction has been expressed, but attention has been drawn to the fact that the return process to landowners without hunting rights since 1999 was 90%, and so on 2001. 80 decreases to 50% now. In this case, the majority of ageing households are indicated the need for a simpler way of collecting these funds. Returning. For the purposes of Article 64(2), a comment was made as to how it is good to introduce a safety belt in... The settlements but it refers to hunting, not hunting limits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it would be good if the protection belt in 300 metres was minimum in all areas and not in mountainous mountainous areas 200 meters and it also refers to the limits of the hunting grounds. As for the ban on hunting, the ban on funding has been given the opinion that very often the same funds are used by foreign hunters and not punished. It has also been warned of another problem, observed on the ground, and this is a common case... Just in rare places where animals go to drink. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, uh... should be at least 100 metres from natural water sources, especially in dry and karst areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the basis of the debate, the Committee supported this Law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47354	Thank you very much. Does the Committee still want a representative? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47355	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, Mr. Secretary and Ministry representatives. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed this Law as an interested working body. In principle, the debate stressed that a new proposed legal solution introduces a new system of protection against poaching and introduces a number of order into the hunting economy with the appropriate organisation of the hunting inspection. In particular, the discussion proposed a reduction in the amount of the guarantee for the execution of the concession, i.e. the hunting of the lease, which was immediately supported by the amendments already proposed in Articles 23 and 30 of the final proposal of the Law. It is suggested that the applicant more clearly defines the concept of land users in paragraph 13(2), as it exclusively refers to land users where the hunting ground was established. Therefore, it is doubtful whether non-hunting land users may require the implementation of the measures to prevent the occurrence of the damage referred to in Article 76, as well as Articles 77, 79, 80 and 81. In particular, the assessment of the provisions of Article 15(2), according to which the Ministry of Hunting Rights in State Hunting, can be entrusted with a legal or natural person using the land, does not specify which is the legal basis of use, i.e. for what purpose this land is used. It is not therefore an acceptable formulation of paragraph 3 which allows those legal or natural persons to be contracted directly by the Ministry for 30 hunting years. It is proposed that the applicant more clearly formulate the observed non-precision. The Committee assessed that the right to hunt in this case cannot be entrusted to scientific and medical institutions and exclusively to legal persons of interest to the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Hunting Act. Hunting law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47356	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47357	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, allow me to state the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on the final proposal of the Hunting Law. The Croatian Democratic Community's club stands at the view that hunting and game management is an important activity involving breeding, protection, hunting and the use of game and its parts. The management of hunting and game has an economic, tourist and recreational function and significant protection and conservation of the biological and ecological balance of natural habitats, game and wild fauna. The management of hunting and game is governed by the applicable Hunting Act published in People's newspaper No. 10. 1994. In recent years, most of the work in law enforcement has been done. Hunting sites and certain hunting authorities have been established, a multi-annual hunting management plan has been developed, i.e. breeding and game protection programmes, as well as hunting economic bases. Hunters are mastered by hunting authorities, based on these planning documents. In accordance with the free entrepreneurship, even though with the highest number of hunting grounds, the masters of the hunting association have been affirmed in this power, even more than 90% of the hunting grounds. Administrative inspection is in place. It should be pointed out that our hunts characterize the great inequality of the success of management both among the hunting authorities and among the hunting grounds in certain regions. At the same time, we have a national hunting ground called Garjevica, which was named in 2002 by the International Hunting Council as the world's best organized and guided hunting ground, and we also have hunting sites that do not modernize according to legal regulations. Some counties can compete with their hunting grounds with the best hunting sites in neighbouring countries, while in most of the county will only be able to achieve such a degree of hunting development in the future. Hunting in our country still faces a lot of problems. They are mostly the result of the subjective weaknesses of the laurels but there are objective difficulties of which he would point out next. We still have part of the area under mines, it's a matter of poaching, issues of devastation and land processing, fires in the coastal area of the state, unsettled waste dumps, construction of roads that prevent the free movement of game, undevelopment of hunting tourism and the lack of more hunting inspectors. In addition, the implementation of the Hunting Law has seen significant difficulties that can only be eliminated by passing a new law. Therefore, the Proposer proposed this final proposal of the Hunting Act to regulate the issues which are raised in order of hunting, starting with the management of the hunting grounds, and the trade in game, its parts, to the use of hunting weapons. More successful hunting management is being initiated, a new hunting protection system is being introduced against poaching and other forms of devastation, and stricter sanctions are being imposed for poor management and violation. He wants to encourage hunting tourism, revive hunting customs and traditions, strengthen hunting ethics and improve hunting. The final amendment of the Hunting Act is in line with the principles of the International Council for the Hunting, Breeding and Protection of Wildlifes and 4 international conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia and two directives of the European Economic Community which prescribe standards for the protection of nature, the protection and conservation of game and their habitats, the preservation of the biological balance or the need of it where it is disturbed. The law also regulates, too, the law is also in line with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia for certain administrative areas, and with the laws that have been amended since the last amendments and additions to the Hunting Act, and regulate issues that are touched by their territory. As the proposer in the final proposal of the Hunting Law has observed most of the comments of the previous reading, we would nevertheless point to certain provisions that need to be regulated differently in our court. Therefore, Article 14 requires the establishment of a competent authority which regulates the lease of the owner of the hunting grounds. According to our court, it is the competent body of the County Assembly, or City Assembly of the City of Zagreb. In Article 15(3), it is necessary to limit the possibility of non-competition, to entrust hunting activities to natural persons. This possibility should only be allowed for legal persons of interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to specify in detail in Article 18 that, in order to carry out responsible tasks in the establishment of joint hunting grounds, the members of the Commission must be professional persons with appropriate experience, i.e. Authorised hunting engineers. In Article 23 and Article 30, it is necessary to amend certain provisions governing the level of the amounts to be secured by a concessionary or a hunter in cash or by the guarantee of a bank, i.e. by means of a exchange for the orderly execution of a concession contract, i.e. a lease agreement and a concession on a common hunting ground, which is mainly concluded with our hunting associations and almost 90% of the cases. Hunting associations are unable to secure such high amounts that they will remain in banks for another few years. We therefore propose to reduce that amount to a double amount of annual concession fee and to an annual amount of remuneration for the lease in the common hunting grounds to ensure the execution of the concession contract. Finally, Article 47 requires that an expert who can develop a hunting base, a game breeding programme and a game protection programme must have appropriate professional equipment, experience, a professional examination, and that an authorised hunting engineer. Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47358	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club [[Intruder: Allow.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47359	The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47360	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47361	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the Croatian Peasant Party Club must say that with all these amendments given by the HDZ Club and with these amendments that we give and we end up if they are all accepted we will surely support this law. But at first I must say that it is really a matter that is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, that it was necessary to change certain things in the law and that it is good that this whole law has passed into one, also a very long procedure in which we have also discussed the thematic sessions where we have defined certain things, aligned it with those most interested, which are our hunting associations and I would say all together came to the very best solutions. However, if no law is so good that it could not be repaired, especially until it has been adopted. I believe this is the final proposal of the Hunting Act, so I will, apart from this part in which I support Mr. Širtz, who has already set out several more amendments which will also be given by the HSS Club and which I believe will be respected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As I have already said, on behalf of the exhibitor and on behalf of the committee, that one of the concerns has been highlighted in the debate, and I would say something that would be extremely significant for us to share in Croatia's agriculture, which is one part of our livestock production that is developing in the newer time, and it is about beefing and cow-body system. Thus, we propose that Article 9 of point 3 of Article 9 is amended and it is said that in fertilizers, fruit and vine crops are intended for intensive production and pastures used for breeding in the cow-body system, if they are fenced by a fence that prevents the natural migration of hairy game. It means no hunting ground. I don't think there should be any particular explanation, but I think we've already defined it in some way with the secretary of state and with Mr. Assistant. I think it's extremely difficult to imagine a situation where, for example, you have a pasture where there's a hundred, 200 cows with little calves. Although we can predict that that's where 30 hunters are moving, and that's where one pheasant takes off, so now you can imagine a situation where at least 5, 6 of them are fired from their rifles. Where can I meet that cow after? I couldn't think about it and what state they'd be objectively said in, but I think that this situation is unimaginable and I really think that where we should give full support to the development of livestock, especially in this cow system, the calf because it's the development of that basic herd of reproductive material and for breeding, and for which unfortunately we still import in large quantities. So it would be extremely good if we came out here to meet and then, as it is done in nurseryes, fruit and vine crops, make such an exception. I think there's one principled attitude in which we didn't list it in this amendment, but I'm sure you should think about it. One big question is whether it is possible for someone on their private surface who is objectively fenced and has some larger, more hectares, is it possible to establish a hunting ground, because, for example, if this man has 100 or 200 hectares of fenced vineyards and has not established his own breeding site, is it good if it is not so completely closed and yet closed in a way with a fence that can't be placed inside a hunting ground, I think that's one question that may not be most clearly defined, certain indications are given that it's not possible, so it's explained, but in fact it happens to people on such private plots of larger land are setting up hunting grounds. We also advocate that Article 23 of point 1 of paragraph 5 is amended and said that, for the orderly execution of the concession, financial resources shall be provided through compulsory insurance for game damage and game damage. In addition, in Article 30(3) to change and read: "For the orderly execution of the lease, the hunter is obliged to provide financial resources through compulsory insurance for game damage and savage damage." In other words, by prescribing the triple or double amount of the hunt as guarantees for the orderly execution of the concession, i.e. the lease inappropriately because they deposit and block large funds primarily from hunting associations over a longer period of time. Therefore, mandatory insurance is proposed as a better form of guarantee for the orderly execution of the concession, i.e. lease. I don't think that we can really go in a way that we think that and the Priors are going to do some damage. We know that we have problems, that we have problems in certain hunting grounds, but I think it's a job to sort of secure ourselves in a certain way with these kind of insurance, not with huge deposits of funds, which then question whether they'll be used at all, and stay deposited especially when it comes to joint hunting sites, when it comes to our hunting associations that certainly do not have that kind of money. I think it would be safer this way and there shouldn't be any bigger problems. In Article 64, we also suggest that the words "300" are replaced by "in a 500 band" and "out of 200" are replaced by "300 meters". Since there is no expert or scientific assessment based on a certain distance from the settlement in the valley or mountainous mountainous areas in which game is forbidden, this distance is proposed for the safety of the population. I must say that I strongly oppose this reduction provision or the one that is present today, and I strongly advocate this increase, I would say from my own experience. I live and my family lives in the country. We had a one-on-one dog, unfortunately shot, assuming the dog was a stray and assuming he was 350 meters away from home. Such cases happen, I don't mind that when hunters have permission to do such things, even though in that part I'm skeptical, and it was a purebred dog. Unfortunately, he was shot, unfortunately I had no chance to do anything in that part and I find it inadmissible to approach any hunting activity closer to 500 metres of settlements and for me there is no excuse and there is no excuse to suggest that then in certain areas, given that the settlements are very close, there will be no hunting grounds. And it's a good thing there's no hunting ground. If the settlements are so close, and we know how far a certain grain can go and if that distance does not exist, then it is good not to set up hunting grounds in such places. I therefore think that we should think carefully about these proposals and that, with the correction of these amendments and those amendments that have already been made, the HSS Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47362	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS, Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47363	If nothing else, we're the club with the longest name in the Parliament, here's what we can at least boast about. Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. Let me refer briefly on behalf of the Regional Party Club to the adoption of this Hunting Act. So we at our club therefore support the very intensity of this law to improve in such a comprehensive way the overall system of hunting and thinking, therefore, is absolutely necessary in view of the state in which it is in this system, but only to support this law will we give, depending on the amendments that will be accepted or rejected, and therefore in the desire that this law that is passed, be even more quality. We also highlight two aspects, so the roles of hunting in the Republic of Croatia, is that income market, related to tourism, and there is also the very important one, so the dimension of conservation and protection of the biological balance and the game fund that we have in Croatia, and lately this role has spread to preserve people's health, and I mean it primarily in the context of these events around bird flu and the possibility of contagion, i.e. Carrying the bird flu across the game, through the poultry in which they had it, and in the future, it will likely be because prevention is a major part of both hunting societies and hunters. So as bearers of all activities again, we come to the issue of increased costs and for these purposes, I'll say about it a little later. So we've talked here before about this market dimension, the income dimension. Unfortunately, we can find that the owners of these activities, our hunting companies, primarily hunting societies, are not equipped, so they are not able to compete with hunting associations and companies on the other side of the border, so we have witnessed for various reasons that due to the war, too, because of the lack of development, many of these hunting routes are turned either in Slovenia or in Hungary or Slovakia, the Czech Republic or Serbia, Vojvodina, so Bulgaria, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. etc. which tells us that we must all put a lot of effort together so that our hunting associations, therefore primarily the Croatian Hunting Union, are capable of this competition and from the data we have from previous years we know that this hunting tourism has been quite developed in the Republic of Croatia in almost all its parts and that such tourists spent a lot of money on a daily basis, incomparably more than those tourists who come to our apartments at sea today. But we hope, then, that by activity, even through this Law, it will be possible to change that. So what we have an objection to, and in order to help precisely the holders of these activities, these are hunters, hunting associations, we have objections to Article 27, which, of course, speaks of the redistribution of funds from the concession. We're not happy with that redistribution. We think, therefore, that these funds should primarily be invested in the development and improvement of hunting in the Republic of Croatia. As far as this first point is concerned, we know how these funds are distributed, so let's go from point to point to see what our remarks are likely to translate into amendments. If not, maybe the government accepts some of our suggestions so she intervenes alone in the law. There is a point 2 which speaks of those 50% of the funds allocated to land owners, which, if not used, can be used by local self-government units to build and maintain hunting, agriculture and forestry infrastructures. We would like it to be defined in this item, therefore, when the owners without hunting rights in the area of hunting can request compensation and prove their right of ownership. I think there should be a deadline for it to be a current year, so each year or period from the current year to demand that fee, and not for him to be able to report in 10 years, so, and then ask for that fee. Local self-government units in this way cannot actually plan their activities, but they must have those assets frozen year after year, instead of using them, therefore, in this way that suggests this article of the law. There is also point 2 which speaks of 30% of the funds being passed into the state budget. In our opinion, for one thing, it's too much of the funds that go into the budget, but if they are, 30% of us think they have to be dedicated. Now of these four points, these funds are the only ones that are not intended. So they automatically go into the budget. You simply don't know what purpose they'll be used for. We suggest, therefore, that they be directed into a particular form. Whether it is a fund or an agency or a special item in the ministry from which hunting, hunting and hunting units, i.e. hunting societies, could be supported, but on the basis of the specific programmes they would offer to the ministry. If the ministry appreciated that the programme was good, if some hunting society deserved support, it would grant them certain funds. There's a lot of such hunting societies that, look, they're just vegetating and that might take a little money to get them out of that lethargy. There are also cases, e.g. Here, with me is the same case, a hunting company that almost most of its profits must pay for car damages. Because its hunting company in its territory, this hunting society, is located almost 40km of county or state roads. For such a small society it is a big, big problem and simply they should perhaps some kind of help at a certain point. So it would be good, it was a proposal from the Croatian Hunting Union to create some kind of fund, so that these funds would not be unintended but strictly intended for different projects, to improve this hunt. In point 3, therefore, the funds, 10% of the funds, are allocated to the Special Account of the Ministry of Law Implementation. We don't have any objections here. And there is a point 4, 10% of the funds at the expense of the County and the City of Zagreb for the implementation of the Law. So here we have 3 items, so possible distributions of these funds. It is the protection and preservation of common hunting grounds that are not under contract. So, they're free. The damages of savages in common hunting grounds that are not under free contracts, is that right, and the execution of competitions for common hunting grounds. For example, though, such hunting grounds or game damage may, therefore, not be used for a year or so. For this reason, I propose adding another item provided for in this point 3. It's a promotion, information from the field of hunting. So that counties can also use these funds to promote and inform in the field of hunting. So, to be explicitly stated that they would not then have problems placing that money through their budget. I think it's very interesting that each county has certain means to promote, inform, therefore, that tourist product primarily that it can offer. The Međimurje County, e.g., has income from the hunt of 280 thousand kuna, some county and far more. I think that these funds could be quite well used if, therefore, they were not used in these other paragraphs exactly in that sense. To make it very useful, therefore, for all hunting societies. I had already, therefore, said, mentioned that some hunting societies have great damages precisely when they have to compensate for the damage to the game on the roads. So we have an article in 86 that states that point 3 is that responsibility for the damage caused by savages is borne by a driver if he has exceeded the permitted speed, and otherwise by the poacher of the hunting grounds at which the damage occurred. So, the driver is responsible only if he has exceeded the permitted speed. I think it's too tight, so, yes, too tight to avoid it, so drivers avoid their responsibility on the road. So this point may need to be formulated so that responsibility for the damage caused to gamers is borne by a driver unless the rules and regulations of the Road Safety Act are complied with. Because a driver can happen to be under the influence of alcohol, and he's driving at the speed allowed, right? He doesn't have time to react not a few meters, if he jumps on the road of a deer, or a rabbit, or something like that. So this should also enable our hunting societies to pay as little damage as possible. I'm saying, some hunting societies are a huge item. I still have, here, an objection to the article, the remark, the same application or appeal to article 11 that speaks of the limits of the hunting grounds. In the process, therefore, the determination of the limits of hunting ground over the last few years in the global world was fine, but there were certain objections, tensions on the ground. So I would appeal, therefore, and open up the possibility that after the adoption of this Law, the adoption of this Law if there were any objections on the ground, that they would once again be checked about the limits of this hunting ground. And that, on the basis of Article 11 of this Act, all existing problems which are on the ground and which are present are re-observed and solved. Thank you very much. I say, we support the meaning of the intensities of this Law, and we will determine it, therefore, depending on the amendments that will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47364	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps before the very beginning, he refers to the law several general remarks on the position of both my personal and the position of the club regarding hunting in Croatia. Hunting was in ancient times the necessity of survival. Today it is primarily tourist interesting and lucrative economic activity that we must think about in the long term in a way that we should gradually give up on it. This is one of those occasions for changing our bad habits no matter how much they are embedded in the traditional behavior of our society. Today, there are about 50,000 hunters in Croatia. In England, fox hunting, as you know, was an aristocratic identity. There have been hundreds of years, but English society has decided since the summer of 2007 that it is no longer engaged in this type of hunting. As very traditional England has freed such a universal bad practice, we in Croatia will have to gradually give up our habits if we want to accept new standards in Europe related to animal protection. I certainly don't mean protecting and maintaining the necessary balance both in nature and especially in relation to the proximity of the settlement. In relation to the text of the proposal of the Hunting Law before us, which passed the first reading in the Assembly, certain differences arose in the text of the Final Proposal of the Law as a result of respecting the remarks, proposals, opinions and suggestions made during the first reading in the Assembly and its working bodies. The final proposal of the Law is in line with the observations and proposals which were essential, principled and nomotechnical and expressive in nature. Comments and proposals are grouped as follows. To give power to the Croatian Hunting Union Article 7. Proposal, on the allocation of funds for the promotion of hunting by the Croatian Hunting Union, Article 28. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Proposal, 27 and 28, to define its own hunting ground and owner's rights in establishing its own hunting ground Articles 2, 5 and 14. Proposal for a lease period and concessions Articles 21, 31 and 35. Proposal for and in the way of establishment of the game plant, and the power to adopt game prices, Articles 15 and 22. Suggestion. I would like to point out here that given that this law has worked for a long time that I have to commend the maker that this proposal that is much more quality today than what we had the first time we had it on the club and on our benches. In line with the above, some of the public powers given by the draft law to the Croatian Hunting Union will be exercised by the restoring ministry. This results from Articles 8 and 70. Final proposal. The funds of concessions and hunts intended for the promotion of hunting were allocated 50% under Article 27(1) to part of land owners without hunting rights, which was earlier in the previous proposal 35%. I welcome that, I think it's better, but it's still not enough. Part of the state budget under point 2 of the left hand is 30%, which was forecasted to be 25% earlier, and I welcome that. Of course I agree with my predecessor who pointed out that it would be better if instead of going into the budget it went to a special fund. It was also previously provided for in point 3 of the Special Account of the Ministry of Implementing Law by 5%, and now it is provided for 10% and I welcome that, and the way in which the grower and the way in which ownership rights are acquired over its own hunting grounds, as defined in Articles 13, 16 and 18. Final proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. Proposal, and a price list of savages brought by the Minister of Resolute Ministry, as defined in Article 22 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Suggestion. The text of the final draft law, however, would be good to supplement some of the following. In Article 3(1), the fine game, under 2 feathered game, fill the text with wild turtles. There are wild turtledoves in a huge number, and she's not threatened with the possibility of a disappearance. So far, it has been treated as a game hunt from the farmer's point of view especially in working areas where it does huge damage to agricultural cultures, especially cereals. In Article 18(2), following the words to the final forest, veterinary and agronomic college, a point is added and the words from the expert study of hunting and nature protection, i.e. acquired by the first-degrees of those professions in accordance with the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In addition to the university studies mentioned in the final proposal of the Law at the University of Karlovac, a professional study of hunting and nature protection is conducted, and the study programme of the study in question processes the contents treated by this law much more detail than is possible in university studies. In a new law that regulates higher education and titles they acquire, there is no Syntagma with a college degree. The appropriate name and title is the prime minister. As the persons who have completed their studies under the previous regulations have the titles and statuses set out in this law, they should also be provided for in the text of this law, but new laws should also be cited as their holders will soon be placed on the labour market. In Article 23(5), point 5 is replaced by the following: Also in point 5 behind the word to add the word pureblood. Also, behind the words laid down, add the word to the working use. Namely, the concessionary is obliged to use only purebred hunting dogs of the appropriate breeds for the hunting grounds that take the concession, which are registered with the Croatian Kinological Union, have a mandatory working-use test for the hunting of certain game, and are necessarily chipped. A purebred dog is the only one who proves to be of birth his birth and belonging to the breed of dogs. He can hunt any dog without being pure-blooded and doesn't have to formally belong to a particular breed. By phenotype, the outer form can be almost identical to the type of particular breed and be a cross, so it is important to prescribe that it is a purebred dog that proves its origin by means of a kinological judge. By assessing the forms of the individual concerned, the holder of the corresponding birth certificate according to the regulations of the International Kinological Organisation, whose member is also a Croatian member. The introduction of a particular data chip under the skin further prevents the misuse of the breeding of the original dogs. Chipping in the European Union is mandatory and dogs from other countries outside the European Union cannot enter the European Union unless they are chipsed. The dog's chipping is a substitute for an earlier tattoo that was painful and impregnable, and could have been falsified. The test of innate traits does not prove that the dog is capable of carrying out hunting tasks, but to the breeder and the schooler of dogs indicates which hereditary traits and traits he inherited from his ancestors and through them and from his further ancestors. Only a working-use exam of a trained dog indicates whether the dog is capable of performing the tasks for which he is trained, and whether, in accordance with the provisions of this law, it can be used in hunting. In addition to some of the comments I had made on Article 23(9), which states that a hunting area should be designated for hunting dogs' training purposes, and that it should be possible to pass work-based dog tests. In order for a dog to be brought into a hunting ground, he must have a working exam and to be able to access the exam, he must be allowed to study as far as possible in the hunting grounds as possible in the context of working hunting discipline, so he should oblige the concessionaire to enable the training of dogs. The last 40 years of the last century that solution was incorporated into the Hunting Act and the quality of dogs was incomparable at a higher level. In Article 47, the following word is added: "with a collegiate of hunting" is added: "or an engineer of hunting and nature protection, or with the acquired degree of first graders in accordance with the Law on Scientific Discipline and Higher Education". This argument is the same as the one tied to the University of Karlovac. In Article 67(1), the word "use" is added as follows: "clean blood". In the same article in paragraph 3, the words "examination of natural persons" should be deleted and the words "work-use exam" should be added. In Article 72(1), the following word is added: "a graduated forestry engineer": "that is to say, a person who has acquired the degree of first-rate from the same profession in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education". In paragraph 2 of the same article, the word "diplomation engineer of forestry" is added: "that is to say, the person who acquired the degree of first grader of the same profession". So these are some of the remarks I made in the amendments anyway, so it may not even be necessary to read them all together. Maybe it's just final. Compared to first reading, this proposal is incomparably more quality and with the adoption of the proposed amendments and these opening remarks on the need for gradual changes in habits regardless of the economic effects and importance of the tourist offer we from the HNS Club will support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47366	The SDSS Club is a respected representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47367	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I agree with those who say that this proposal has been improved in relation to what we had before and in this respect these improvements, and we consider it good and welcome. However, we think that there is still room for improvement, especially given the situation we have in certain areas of any hunting ground declared as State hunting sites, common hunting sites or hunting grounds that are placed in a concession or lease. This law of course goes after it to improve things but there are some areas where improvement if I can say so freely can follow only if further fishing is banned for a certain time because in the last ten or fifteen years this area has been absolutely devastated, because there has been lawlessness despite the law, because there has been uncontrollable fishing and in terms of any feathered animals, any fur animals we have a catastrophic state. And if it is possible for this House to warn of such a condition, I would beg that it be done. This cannot be solved only by the improvement that this law clearly offers but simply by a kind of rigid, kind of sharp measures that will allow the animal world in those areas which, on one hand, are devastated by war circumstances but particularly by an uncontrollable, uncivilised catch in that area. And if it's possible to think that way, it would be from an ecological point of view, from every other economic aspect of our country, be of particular importance. If we choose to apply this law, and the SDSS Club will seek to propose some kind of amendment to improve some of the provisions of this law that we consider necessary to implement, then certainly through control mechanisms should sanction those who have abused the concession institute and abused the rental institute, especially concessions in recent years. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that some people are hitting on their patriotic and patriotic breasts while at the same time renting their concessions, not paying them themselves, but being paid by the Italians or some other and uncontrollably hunting in our areas. What they do in neighbouring countries such as Serbia or Romania, of course, we can control to some extent in accordance with our international obligations, but what we do at home, whether it is about Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Lika-Senjska or any other Slavonia County, is inadmissible. I've had experience having Italian hunters calling me without knowing who I am, moving in a certain area to make sure that no one would hunt them unauthorized in half German and half Croatian and it's quite clear that they were actually the ones who got the chance to pay the concessions that our people got can uncontrollably refer to as our national and natural wealth. And for this reason, it calls for us to really worry about the state of the animal world in certain areas that have been declared State hunting grounds and how individuals have treated themselves and how they have really, as the law says, protected, promoted and fed the animal world at that job or made an absolute contribution to its complete devastation. In that sense, colleagues and colleagues, I think there must be very strict supervision of who and how and under what opportunities this type of concession can be obtained and how it can be used and how concessions can be awarded, by the fact that there are indications that the current practice and way of applying concessions can also be used for a kind of corruption both in social and political relations. Because concessionaries had no obligation to report or control, nor was there adequate supervision in this regard. And I think that with a number of things that we as a nation have to do, this is also that the right to capture, the possibility of extraction is not allowed in one uncivilized way as it has seemed for the last ten or some periods when certain territories have been out of control of the state, so 15 years. In this regard, I would also suggest that, on behalf of the SDSS Club, we will advocate in the form of amendments that this proposal on the distribution of concession funds that is certainly better than what it has been so far, and the necessity to ensure that local self-government units benefit from the concession. Because leave it only at the county level, at the level of the ministry and at the level of owners who have not really benefited so far in many cases, leave units of local self-government to have no concession benefit from it and knowing that a good part of our units of local self-government actually has nothing but one kind of natural resources of forests, pastures, water and hunting grounds. That's not good. Knowing that a good part of the local self-government unit is absolutely encouraged and that in the debate we will have on the budget next week we are actually dealing with Sisif's work. We're asking the state to do something, so tomorrow we're going to ask Shuker to return some of the funds that should actually be originally belonging to local self-government units. And at the end of the line, at the end of the line, it will increase the ability of local self-government units to have someone third from the county headquarters or someone else not only determine concession conditions but also concession entities. Whether someone can form a hunting society or cannot form a hunting society. Why would someone in Split County in Split determine a municipality in Split County who will have a hunting society or a Sibenik municipality, in Sibenik County. And that's what happens, and they really don't have any autonomy in this respect. And I think it would really be fair to have already on this segment which is not a large income item but certainly, for those municipalities, it would be important to launch this mechanism, that this type of resource at least remains partially in the units of local self-government. In this respect, the Club of the SDSS will propose an amendment to amend, i.e. to improve this Act. And as for the distance that he was talking about here, which some colleagues here were talking about, look, the present 300 meters in mountain-mounted areas have been reduced to 200 meters. Sorry, that's too close. For most of the settlements associated with agricultural land, gardens, fields, it's inaccessible. Therefore, we will also insist and propose that this distance be increased, not to decrease by 300 meters, but to increase. Especially in circumstances where we have uncivilized and uncultivated hunting practices and hunters who absolutely do not protect the animal world and then protect both the human world and protect the locals, do not protect the peasants from their activities. The legislator must protect them in this respect. And we will insist on that protection mechanism. And you're about to let them into the kitchen, ladies and gentlemen. If that's how it goes on. So I think there's some kind of limit to that. It is quite clear that in the populated environments of wild animals, whether birds or small animals do not come to the courtyards, do not come to gardens, if they come, it is not a place where they can be... Here are some of the basic positions of the SDSS Club in this regard, in which I would really point out the need to take account of the devastration created by uncivilised practices of hunters and concessionaries over the past 10, 15 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To put more emphasis on control mechanisms and what is particularly important is to let local self-government units have a certain share in this because it is probably of particular importance to them to protect their local world, including the animal world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47368	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47369	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. I've tried to view this law as neither a hunter nor a representative but simply as an ordinary man to whom hunting takes place. And about what I was interested in about this material is that the Law is very important to restrict property rights. The law allows the owner, without asking the hunter's owner, to enter his territory and hunt, past the will of the hunter's owner, to do so. Not just one, but a whole platoon of hunters. And when I began to study the Constitution of the Republic says, literally, I quote: "The law is possible in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to limit or confiscate property with market value compensation.". If you were to ask in the Hunting Law where limited property is prescribed here in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, then I came to Article 4 which may refer to something. And Article 4 shows that the game is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and no hunting activity. And watch what article 1 of this Act says, the law regulates management, and I could say that because it's game, but management includes breeding, okay, protection, can, now hunt, listen to what hunting means: hunting involves tourism and economic activity. And now my colleague Milorad Pupovac has led from real life what it means to be a tourist and economic activity when foreign hunters or our hunters, our hunters, and indeed take care of our game. Don't bother with her short, she's short. Now I know that the hunting organization is strong and symbolically strong, not the guns and everything but the lobby, the number of people who are interested in it. But watch another bigger absurd. I think article 19 says the owner of the land is responsible for the game in his area. You want me to read that to you? The owner of the land is responsible for the areas of land on which it is not established, the owner is responsible for what is happening in his territory and we have made it possible by law to reduce ownership rights because the state can establish a hunting ground on his land. When it comes to some regulations or restrictions on hunting rights, to now remove that we are past the will of the owner and have not declared hunting activity as an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia, we have allowed hunters, therefore, activity, touristic, commercial... on someone else's property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And look now, article 64 says that it's forbidden to hunt game in a 300-metre band, these are all colleagues saying but no mention of colleagues anywhere from the road away. He told a colleague that there were damaged cars on the roads of hunting rifles. But nowhere around here is said to be forbidden to hunt off a road 300 or 500 meters, any road. And even bigger absurd. Imagine the situation that somewhere on a farm a playground outside the farm is 200 meters away, a playground. And it's not forbidden to hunt on that playground itself. It's 300 meters from the farm but not from the playground. When you look at all that this law provides, then you have to remember something else that has dramatically shaken the Croatian public. You all remember the Rab case and the soup poisoning, the white-headed soups. And here in Parliament, and even before I knew there was a problem on Rab importing savages that aren't autochton, it's not autochton. Those who are from some passive parts know what bricks are and have come simply to go off balance disturbances, although this law says that both hunting associations, both hunting associations and the ministry and the state must take care of the balance. It's motive as law. Which is the fundamental obligation of this association and state. And on the islands, something that doesn't belong to that island was imported. And by the logic of keeping life, what happened happened. Life support must be kept by cattlemen. So, of course I don't think it's possible or that we should ban hunting. In fact, while there is no one else who will be dealing with what is partly involved in hunting alliances, hunting associations and hunters, food, farming, etc., but let us separate you from at least two things, commercial and tourist hunting from what we consider to be of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. So, of particular interest. And secondly, let's limit it to a reasonable measure. It's not possible to hunt along the road, it's not possible to hunt along the playgrounds, it's not possible to hunt by the rivers where people bathe or something. But it must stand in the law. The consequences of the disappearance in law are also the question of damage. Well, we've heard here that it's said that the liability of a driver who, therefore, is too bad, is the responsibility of a driver who drove faster and killed a savage. I think that this law, regardless of improvements, is significant and important, there are still uncleared things that will make life and hunters more difficult in life, but even more so for people who will tang such inaccurately formulated provisions in matters of detachment from settlements, roads, playgrounds and other objects where people are being detained, not hunted. And one more thing, it is really questionable whether it is possible in this way to limit property, and to make sure the owner is responsible for it. I think we should really read that one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47370	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47371	In fact, Mr. President, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Lek, where he states that hunting should be banned 300 metres from the settlement. It's defined by law as well as by road. This is defined by the Arms Act, and everyone who hunts is clearly unequivocally alerted by every hunting group from where the hunt moves, where the pipes are turned and how they are hunted. So there are legal solutions that need to be respected. And for every offense follows the punishment of him who used his weapons differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47372	Thank you. It is time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this agenda point. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47373	Your Honor, Mr. President. Gentlemen, State Secretarys and colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law does not change the basic settings now already in force, but complements, elaborates, or adds new ones as a consequence of the changes that took place in 1994. As opposed to the existing Hunting Act and the draft law which was withdrawn from the procedure, this draft law is in line with the Constitution and the laws directly or indirectly related to hunting and is respected by the observations made by most of the legislators made in the first reading of the law. This law gives hunting a much wider dimension, so that on the farming, protection, hunting and use of game, other than economical, tourist recreational sports importance, the normative order of hunting is equal to the hunting legislation of most European countries that are in small competitive hunting tourism markets. Our hunting lacks game, hunting infrastructure, promiscuity, ethics, customs and social understanding, resulting from the devastation of the Homeland War. All these components are covered by the proposal of this new law. The law first and foremost provides support to poachers who manage well in a way that allows them long-term management, order on the market, strict surveillance and support in the management of hunting grounds. The law adopts all European principles, beginning with the International Council for the Hunting, Breeding and Protection of Wildlife, confirmed international conventions, world standards on the protection of nature, the protection of the conservation of game and its habitats, the preservation of biological balance. To implement this law, good teamed services are needed, especially inspection, but also public understanding because the hunting system that has been applied for more than 60 years is still rooted, which is confirmed by a number of problems that have made hunting management more difficult for the past ten years and will continue to be present for a long time. In this context, it should be pointed out that hunting can no longer be a social category, even when it comes to sports, recreation, or game meat as foods. Today hunting management in the hunting tourism market requires high standards. So that hunting can be done only by those hunters who are professional, who can invest in the hunting grounds as much as the hunting grounds of the requirements and as required by the law, the Hunting Act, the Nature Protection Act, the Veterinary Act, the Environmental Protection Act and other relevant laws. Therefore, only a well-ordered and rich hunting ground can carry the financial burdens of hunting management and can be a competitor to our or foreign market. What role and importance can hunt in tourism best illustrate the fact that many foreigners have for the first time with our country in hunting tourism, after which their family and acquaintances have come for vacations and the fact that summer tourism lasts for about 2 months and hunts all year round. About the importance of hunting is best spoken of by hunting in Istria County as best capitalised by hunting management through hunting tourism and whose hunters do not have any hunting prices too high. Unfortunately, in other parts of our country, especially in the coast and islands where hunting tourism can compensate for summer tourism hunting is not so developed, so this law will provide appropriate support for individual solutions. The bill removes all obstacles, difficulties that have made it difficult to develop, improve hunting so far. New legal solutions seek to introduce more order in hunting. Starting with the management of hunting grounds in breeding, protecting hunting and the trafficking of game and its parts and the use of hunting weapons. He wants to encourage hunting tourism, revive hunting customs and tradition, strengthen hunting ethics and more effectively explore hunting and their association in the development of hunting promotion as the important industries of our country. The main issues covered by this law are the primary harmonisation of legal legislation with the European Union, laurels who cannot amortise their investments in hunting grounds within the lease period, the possibility of amending the lease agreement on the concession of hunting rights. Issues of hunting management are addressed in the event of an end to the validity of the hunting base. All non-ferrous surfaces other than fenced and cultural protected objects shall be removed. It prohibits hunting 300 metres in the village and in the valley and 300 meters in mountain-mounted areas. In the common hunting grounds of the hunting grounds are brought by poachers as well as for national hunting grounds, approved by the ministries while... hunting sites and the execution of competitions in a further hunting ground... conducts counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb. [[You don't understand.]] The law provides for a hunting season in hunting grounds where masters with high savages can last 20 years, 10 plus 10 years. The law provides for stricter and more effective control of hunting, the use of game traffic and the introduction of markers for this purpose... Major savages, and procedures are prescribed with abandoned savages and hers... which are placed on the market as well as the death of savages. [[You don't understand.]] The funds collected from leases and concessions shall be allocated in another way. 50% fee for the owners of hunting rights through the budget of the county, or the City of Zagreb in the area where the hunting site was established, 30% of the state budget, 10% of the funds for the special budget of the ministry, 10% at the expense of the county and the City of Zagreb. This law resolves the way and form of monitoring the implementation of the hunting base as a unique information base related to hunting management in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Keeping a central hunting record. The Croatian Hunting Federation receives public authority in the conduct and education of hunters, organises hunting exams, testes for hunters and assessors of game trophies, issue professional literature in the field of hunting, issue a hunting badge and card, issue a hunting card and keep records of issued cards. The law provides for the possibility of adopting orders and solutions to reduce the number of savages that cause great damage to cultures. The hunting inspection is located within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and the hunting inspector may be the engineers of forestry, forestry, veterinarians and agronomies that we have sought in previous reading, who have laid down a college of hunting. It also gave the possibility to give a hunting inspector first-degree authorisation to exercise supervision under the Law on the Forests. And what do you say in the end? I think the makers thank you, and we want a good day for the hunters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47374	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47375	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. We had the final proposal of the Hunting Law at 12 months last year, it was to be adopted by emergency procedure and as we know in the Assembly, he caused a major reaction, I would say in the Croatian public mainly in hunting associations, hunting associations, so that after the debate here in the Croatian Parliament, this proposal went to reading. Here after a year, I can say that we have a simple proposal ahead of us, and I am also a participant in certain discussions that were also within the Ministry, and I must say at the level of my County of Split-Dalmatia in order to achieve a quality and good law, and I think that the Ministry and the professional services of the Ministry have done a good job and that those remarks that came from the field are well-accepted in the bill that is before us. The promoter came from several important facts to me and moved the different interests we had to see in the meaning of the 12th month last year and it was enough for me to know the written remarks and remarks and criticism of the proposed law when it comes to that first version of the law. I am glad that they are satisfied in some way with the needs of hunters given the number of hunters in Croatia, because it was the fate of that law to go in one direction that would open the way to elite hunting and in some way eliminate a long tradition among our people who have in some way been dealing with this activity for some time. On the other hand, this bill opened one framework, one perspective in terms of hunting tourism, in terms of commercial hunting, and I believe that by defining the hunting grounds in a proposed way that is well-conceived and that we have that possibility. I am also glad that there has been reconciliation between the Croatian Hunting Union and the Hunting Alliances of Countys and Hunting Associations at County level, because there has been a threat due to some of the interests I don't know what either, but I think ultimately this proposal, that it treats this matter well and that these dilemmas that existed in that first variant have been solved. It is also a major shift in leases and concessions because it is a good thing that only legal and natural persons registered in Croatia, registered in Croatia, can receive a lease, or concession, and thus protect them, can say some colleagues mentioned, and the national interest in hunting, and on the other hand, the law itself is in line with the legal gain of the European Union. The breeding and protection of gamers will be, that is, the legal solution itself and the provisions of the law are precise, but what will be in practice and whether, what mechanisms, control mechanisms will exist in reality and whether we will be there on the right path we will only see it. So the law itself, and in this segment, excellently processed and defined this matter, but what life will show is yet to be seen. I've debated for the last time, I want to repeat what I said, and it's about induction, or the introduction of new species of savages. I'll repeat the Mungos case again, etc. We all know that, every almost every citizen of ours knows what happened. It is therefore good for the ministry to exercise control, but I would certainly stress the need to improve the number, increase the number of savages in the area of Dalmatian debris, but not by importing in some way, but rather by these associations, not by intruding some new species, but in the first order by increasing the number of indigenous game, rabbit, goat, etc. Today we also discussed the Law on the Forests, and I believe that even when it comes to hunting, that this law also touches this area. I believe that this transport infrastructure, forest infrastructure itself, can be on one side of the interference, but first of all, I view it as an advantage mainly for hunting tourism and I believe that building certain content can be made to move within that branch. I can tell you that you would not accept the proposal that Alenka Kočica Chicin-Shain made on behalf of the HNS cube when it comes to taking work, taking exams, working exams of hunting dogs. I don't think it is, if there were a sharp response of hunters from the Split-Dalmatia County, because de facto it leads to elitism again, and I think in some way many of our hunters would have been brought into a situation to raise huge funds, and that the effect of someone would not be particularly, and on the other hand, certain individuals would have done a good business through such schools and I think that the legislator left this issue open, but to define it in the law that they could only be dogs, to participate in hunting that have a hunting test, to say, under quotes, I don't think that this is a good solution. This would be my small contribution to the final proposal of this Law and, once again, I believe that the ministry has reconciled different options, different interests and congratulations to the Ministry and to the Secretary of State and to all those who participated in the drafting of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47376	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47377	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, I've been learning about the necessity of these dogs being purebred dogs who go to take that work exam getting right out of those hunting dogs circles. In fact, this is what is normally true in other European Union countries and we, as you know, in other regulations and so on, we will have to adapt to that. So we better do it now than later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47378	Well, very briefly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47379	What's so short? You didn't pick up the plate. ... Is it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, all right, come on. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47380	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think every dog has its own genealogy, its own birth certificate, its own side. And on the other hand, I stand for our hunters who have been hunting for many years, where it goes from one knee to another. And it's the ones who have the dogs that sell them, maybe it's just a way to get extra profit and extra business because of the monopolies they have. So, I think it's just that they trade and sell dogs that they can make a lot of money. And just teaching and giving certain certificates would just multiply their profits. Therefore, we need to protect the ordinary hunter, our hunter, the hunters who have somehow entered the defense of Croatia since the first days, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47381	Thank you. Dog life in hunting stories. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47382	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will begin my debate to help my colleague Bitunjac respond to this remark, which refers to hunting cinema. So only information, so no other dogs but purebred dogs can even access the test of natural traits. And secondly, I assure you from practical experience that it's almost identical to the test of natural traits and the work game for dogs. Therefore, there is no big difference, and it is much cheaper and perhaps some lobbies will not be satisfied in the way they have been so far with this change that I also personally support and which is therefore a change in relation to the provisions of the current law. This is in some way the third attempt of the final bill, and I agree that it is good, that it corrects certain gaps and improves the situation in Croatian hunting. And it directly or directly concerns over 50,000 hunters in the Republic of Croatia who are usually members of the Croatian Hunting Union. It does not alter the basic settings of the current Law but complement them, elaborate, or give, some new ones as a consequence of the changes of course since the current 1994 law. The law gives support to those poachers who manage well in a way that allows them long-term management of their hunting grounds. Hunting can't be a social category, even though some would like it. And the fact is that only those hunters who are professional and who can invest in a hunting ground and as much as the hunting grounds require and how much legislation on hunting, nature protection, veterinary, environmental protection and other relevant laws can be dealt with. The new legal solutions therefore seek to introduce more order in hunting, starting with hunting, breeding, protecting, hunting and trafficking in game and its parts, and the use of hunting weapons. I would also like to comment on some of the articles of this Law, so I will try to take the lead. Article 6(2)l states that the right to hunt on hunting grounds owned by the Republic of Croatia and the common hunting ground cannot be transferred under concession or lease. I also commented on that when I first read this Law. It's not that I object to this provision, however, but I just want to point out that, unfortunately, in practice, we have a lot of cases where hunting sites are given or transferred under concessions, or leased. And I think that hunting inspection here will have a lot of work to do, and the models that do this are different, and I believe that those who know a lot about money are familiar with it. In Article 15, I also support the amendment of the provisions in paragraph 2, which refers to the fact that, even now, it is said, scientific teaching institutions, and not just individual colleges are counted anymore. It can provide a hunting ground for scientific research. So there are now, therefore, the colleges of forestry, veterinary or agronomic, taking into account as we previously commented on the Faculty of Agriculture Osijek and the university in Karlovac which has a hunting course and which, therefore, can also use certain hunting grounds for scientific purposes. But what I would suggest may be that the proposal to consider the provision of an additional item, which is said to be decoded how it can be concluded by a contract for 30 years. In this case, I would still be more inclined to think about the 30-year term being the upper limit, and depending on the specific case that up to 30 years can be given such a contract. Compensation funds for concessions, and later on they are distributed to me in a fairer way. And I think it is a good provision in Article 27(2), where it is said that the funds that are on the accounts of units of regional and regional self-government, so the county, which did not seek landowners without hunting rights, can be used in the counties and the City of Zagreb for the development and improvement of hunting. We've had similar resources and so far we've known to have on the county accounts. However, if they were used for anything else, then the state audit found this as an objection to the adoption of the records, in the report of the State Audit in the units of local self-government, it put it as an objection. In this case we know what it's used for and it's good to use it this way. Therefore, for the development and improvement of hunting in the area of the regional self-government unit concerned. The article 34 regulates the termination or termination of a hunting contract and what I would only suggest is the depravation of the right so far to a hunter who, for some reason, has been cancelled. Not only does he not have the right to participate in a renewed competition for the same hunting ground, but he is responsible for any other hunting ground, for he is certainly not morally ethically or in accordance with the rules of the profession and in the previous competition. I also said something about this segment of hunting kinology at the beginning, so just to say again, I think that what I need now is confidence on the passed test of natural traits really simplifies the process, especially since these are two and almost identical exams that have been present so far. I would only comment on two other remarks that were heard here during the debate, and they refer first to that 200 or 300 meters from the settlement. In practice, we have cases of peasants seeking compensation for the damages to agricultural cultures caused by their gardens that are also part of the hunting grounds. So let's say that these are plots that are 200, 300 meters from the settlement, so they could sue a hunting association or a hunter for damages, while at the same time the hunter would not have the right to scrape and the savages who do the damage, so this should be coordinated accordingly. And to conclude, therefore, as I said in the introduction of this law, I think it is good, it says in several places that the Minister of Sublaws will regulate certain issues, i.e. to prescribe individual records that are regulated by individual segments of this law and only what needs to be done is to make it sooner so as not to interpret certain provisions in different ways or not at the same time apply the provisions of the previous and this law. So, I support this law, I think it's good and I think it will improve the situation in Croatian hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47383	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47384	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, I welcome the gentlemen of the ministry. All these four months after we discussed the first reading, I had just all of our speech statements that we spoke about, and now that I take this Final Bill proposal, it may be a unique case in the House that one ministry has had so much regard for the presentation of our fellow MPs who have taken the views of our people from the field, beginning from hunting alliances to hunting associations, even to the hunters themselves. So it would really, in its personal name and on behalf of all my fellow hunters, congratulate the Ministry for saying that it understood, understood us, our wishes, and I would say that 90% of the objections we made to constructive proposals and good things were included in this law. So now, personally, I can say that I am very pleased with this law and I will uphold this law, and it is in the end just to say congratulations to us once again and to God that this is how we bring other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47385	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47386	I would, of course, like to point out firstly what is in the title that this is the proposal of the TZE Act, and it is useful therefore that these additions are also made regardless of the potential savings of material, where a declaration of compliance of the draft regulation with the legal acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe are listed. Of course, it is also useful to show this parallel display of compliance in the provision of regulations. It is all in the direction of accepting standards that we need to deal with more and more in the adoption of our laws and regulations. One of the few laws, the bill's proposals, and I believe there will be more and more that apply in both its part and the Islands Act, and it is also for the sake of exceptions, for example, when it is said in Article 13 that its own hunting ground is established on its own land of a legal or natural person or on the land of ownership of the Republic of Croatia if the area is not less than a thousand hectares of uninterrupted land, but in Article 4 of this article it is said of this very important exception, particularly paragraph 1 of this article that its own hunting ground can be established on an island or group of islands of more than 500 hectares. The nomotechnically well-organised bill is also reflected in what we are close to the ground and are daily contact not only with hunters' associations, county alliances, but also with the counties, with their budgets. Therefore, in Article 27, despite the fact that funding for concessions has been allocated to landowners without hunting rights, which says that the principle is indeed accepted that all non-huntor owners, i.e. those who do not have the right to hunt, are paid by the size of the area covered by hunting grounds through the budget of the local self-government units, i.e. the City of Zagreb for a hunting site. This shows how much we want in a transparent and transparent way to show how much all opportunities are in hunting, not only to enjoy hunting animals but to develop an economic branch. However, certain suggestions and objections to this bill should also be made. The promoter made a great deal of effort and made a lot of efforts to explain why he did not accept certain provisions, so in these proposals and opinions on the bill that the applicant did not accept, he also cited the reasons for not accepting. Always this feedback is useful to understand the essence of the law, but I would also like to highlight certain remarks on the final proposal for the law this is because we are in a very good relationship with our counties. For example, the provision of Article 7 which regulates the formation of the Croatian Hunting Union to comply with the provisions of the Association Act. In Article 27(4), it would be worth adding an item that is controlled by the implementation of the common fisheries lease agreement. A brief explanation of the fact that the county as a lender of common hunting grounds should have a permanent guarantee from these leases in order to ensure permanent professional supervision of the tenant in relation to the performance of the obligations by the hunting authorisation for the hunting ground which is the subject of the lease. Since these transactions are not in the jurisdiction of the Chief Inspector, it certainly needs to be decisive and one who does not respect the acceptance of the contractual obligation, the termination of the contract and the ruthlessly sue for damages. In Article 72, leave out the text of the Croatian Hunting Union to be passed the hunting exam, the hunting team's examination exam, the examination examination of game trophies shall be carried out by legal persons who meet the conditions for adult education, where this has been authorised by the competent Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. In Article 68(2), point (a) is replaced by the following: Citizens, especially when they are established by the authorities, since they are authorised services which, among other things, care about hunting as an economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the most important proposal is the amendment made by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. This is on Article 3. In Article 3(1) of Group A, a large game behind the word "muflon, ossarius, musimon, pal" is added the words "grave and jumper amotragus lervia". The proposed amendment proposes to include a grilled jumper in a game that is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. The grilled jumper is grown in a small number of fenced areas on the island of Hvar, the region of Jelsa, the Mosor, the village of Gornji Dollar and... Tiatu at Sibenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the fenced area, the grilled jumper showed great vitality and reproductive potential, modesty in food and water, and resistance to diseases and parasites. The introduction of a grilled jumper into a game that is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its special protection would enrich and esthetically enlarge the space. Of course, certain objections are not about unautochton or indigenous game. The phases on the islands were introduced, they weren't autochthonous savages, they adapted well. Young rabbits are now imported from Hungary, grown up and then beaten by hunters. The example used very well by Spain tells us exactly about the need to introduce this mangy jumper of course in accordance with the law and regulation into our coasts and islands especially on uninhabited islands so that there is no harm. It's just two words about a razor jumper. It's really beautiful. For hunters who don't know him, a man who jumps proudly, hunters know it. Sure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A hundred years ago, he described the basic traits of the oatmeal sheep in Bremo's encyclopedia, and he has a broadly enthusiastic story about the demanding... and savages in her homeland Atlas mountain, and by then she proposes to enter into the mountains of Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Germans didn't bring it in but the Americans and the Spanish did it, especially the Spanish, where it is now appreciated that this species is the most represented, where it is the most attractive game of all. exode. It falls into the cauliflowers, has strong horns, especially the male, so they're interesting as trophies. The morphological and biological characteristics of the oatmeal jumper fall into the order of the papacara in addition to the ruminants. This is therefore useful to make hunting tourism rich with another game. Of course, more fences should be left in the past when all the procedures that need to be done in our country are implemented. I believe that this grilled jumper is one challenge and, therefore, this amendment should be accepted by the Proposer. Of course, all those who don't go hunting should at least go hunting to see what he looks like, that it doesn't turn out that we're just in the cabinet discussing something that's really an interest in other countries only rich and in us this law has just made a balance between those who are hunters and those who want to raise profits at the expense of hunting and raise profits, and that's one step towards a very European standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47387	Thank you very much. I think the ministry will respect this proposal to raise high fences to protect the scrawny jumper. Now time's up, so tomorrow we'll continue the debate with the Hunting Law. The first is the honourable representative Josip Djakic, then Zeljko Ledinski, and the secretary of state will be manifested after the debate. We are going in line to amend and supplement the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Auditors and continue to comply with the agenda. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal of the Hunting Law. Dear Representative Josip Djakic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47389	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Hunting Act comes at the right time and really after the first reading, after the discussions that have been carried out, after the analysis which has been made, compliance with all the legal norms of the Law on Weapons, the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Spatial Planning and all other norms, is indeed arranged and we must give any praise to those who participated in and in the discussions which, with their proposals and solutions, highlighted those important issues which are being addressed by this Final Proposal of the Law. And those basics that are being solved by this Law are also the arrangement of the inspection service that is more than necessary, and this Law is more than necessary for the inspection service in hunting grounds throughout Croatia to do its job. In fact, we are aware that the time of the Homeland War, occupation and climate has brought great damage to our hunting grounds, especially in those occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia where total devastation of the hunting grounds occurred and where the animal fund actually disappeared because it is probably only with game and food in those areas. It is therefore necessary now that, when this Law enters into force, when recovery is made and substantial resources are invested to rehabilitate these hunting grounds, it is likely that these tenants in the areas of special state care will be helped to increase the game fund. But what each through the Law and through that economic basis each tenant has both the duty and the obligation to when the game fund is reduced, when it is found to be incompatible with the hunting economic base, must suspend the hunting of such game and must do everything in order to fill in that quota that is on a hunting economic basis and thus must always be done for every kind of game during the next period unless its extinction occurs. Namely, as we have said, the time of the Homeland War and the climate has slowed the expected development of hunting, especially the development of game funds and hunting tourism. The situation in hunting has been trying to fix with several regulations amending and supplementing the law but by the nature of these regulations could not go into radical procedures in the law. Therefore, these procedures, which are made in this Act and in line with all Council Directives of Europe, will certainly be the right thing to do in the further management of hunting grounds. And also by looking at the amendments tabled on this Final Proposal of the Law, they can say that there are those who are not well addressed to today's work of hunting in the application of the legal provisions and can therefore say that today the concessionaries on the hunting grounds still have a obligation to deposit, not the funds, but the currency from the responsible person in order to be secured, secured payment of the lease if there is a termination of the contract or any other legal obstacle in the management of the hunting grounds. The damage insurance and the damage caused by the game is also defined and without it no concessionist can receive a concession agreement or extend it and every year insurance policy is necessary to come to the ministry and then the ministry responds that it has received an orderly policy, that it has received a exchange with the amount that is... to rent a particular hunting ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, there are 1050 hunting sites in the Republic of Croatia, 320 state hunting sites and 730 joint hunting sites run by the counties. There are 90% of hunting grounds run by associations, hunting associations, various names and species, and there are those where certain companies or craftsmen are leased. There are hunting grounds with us that are best arranged in the world but there are also those hunting grounds that are leased and used as self-services or better said as butchers. Surely, the adoption of this Act and the kind of self-service or butchership will be interrupted because inspection services will be obliged and necessary to sanction and those who do not carry out legal provisions, which do not guard the hunting grounds, which act as if the law does not define that it is not a pre-occupation but that it is also breeding and protecting and feeding savages one of those basic items defined by this Act. And I will repeat once again that the management of the hunting grounds includes breeding and protection, hunting and the use of game and its parts. So the hunting and use of its parts is also defined by this Law but in the aftermath of the cultivation and protection of the savages. I must say that this Law has mostly removed all the resistances and difficulties that have made it difficult to develop and improve hunting at national level. I would also like to stress that the implementation of administrative and inspection supervision has so far been burdened by the transfer of inspection from the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry to the State Inspectorate, and now by this Act back to the Ministry and therefore we believe that the ministry which issues concessions and which it has under its control and inspection services will certainly bring even greater concern to introduce order into the hunting grounds so that there are no derogations that are illegal. Similarly, in order to meet the plans and programmes when a concession is acquired or when competing for a concession, it is necessary to make a plan for 30-year work in the hunting grounds and investment in the hunting grounds. These are the same large items that these plans are always placed in monetary amounts and material values that should be entered into each hunting ground. But we don't think that's happening most of the time. There are also certain and subjective but sometimes objective difficulties in the hunting of authorising officers who, because of financial resources or some other or intricacies, cannot lead a hunting ground, and therefore these hunting grounds are far behind from those who are the best in the world. There's also what's unnatural, reproduction, say, mongoose, and probably other species, and that's what needs to be contained. Some species are once again protected and cause great damage in the economy. And that should be defined by certain procedures and laws. But there is also something in this Law that is interpreted in practice as being twofold, which is that the hunting and use of game and its parts in Article 59 states that the hunting of savages involves the pursuit, the welcome, the observation of hunting, the invitation, the pursuit, the shooting, and the capture of live game, the release of birds of predators, the collection of dead savages, etc. However, Article 64 also prohibits the hunting of invitations. In most cases, when Italian hunters come to our hunting sites and do not hunt, they are invited to start hunting and such acts under the law should also be brought in that the invitations cannot be in the position of the hunt itself, but this should be the stage before the hunt itself and then there should be no penalties for foreign tourists, for the legal persons who allowed it, and those tourists no longer want to come to the destinations in which the police sanction them, two times interpreting the legal provisions. I therefore welcome this law, I believe as a hunter myself and as one of the members of one association in the national hunting grounds that its application will begin, that in the coming years surely hunting will be the same point in the development of hunting tourism and the general welfare of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47390	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47391	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not a hunter, nor will I be, but I have to tell my next distinguished colleague, Djakic. Says the law comes at the right time, counterpart Djakic's law was passed since September last year. You know how they were. This is somewhere in the fifth, sixth version of this law. The government first wanted to bring in an emergency procedure, so we took off the urgency, then she completely pulled it out, and then she kept calling back, and it's good that it was done, that we got a law that, unlike all the versions we had, had a head and tail. You have to admit that. Because if it had been brought in that form in the ninth month of last year, you wouldn't know who's drinking, who's paying. As for inspections, hunting inspection has been before, but be aware of a colleague that in the last two years nothing has been done in that part because in 2003 when the Law on the establishment of ministries from the central body of the state administration inspection passed from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, it passed but unfortunately never harmonised that part legally until today. And there are huge problems so that a lot of time was lost in the work of the inspection because she couldn't follow the State Inspectorate Act because she wasn't in the State Inspectorate. So to say, but in the end, it's a good thing that we as an opposition managed to force the government to think and make a quality proposal and I'm glad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47392	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47393	Namely, I will repeat that the law came really at the right time after the tumultuous emphasis on certain items, and one of them I will also read about, and that is what the spears were most broken about and I will now say publicly, and it is written here on page 58 of the observations that went to the law and from the Croatian Hunting Union, where the Croatian Hunting Union of Explicites wanted to get all public powers, the schedule of financial resources, etc. And these are the intercessions that have been made. I said at the beginning that the now overcame the reluctances that were in this law and the Croatian Hunting Union no longer had such public powers as it planned to have, and I think that's quite all right. The Hunting Union is a voluntary association of citizens or hunters as well as all other associations in Croatia. He's a Croatian hunting alliance named after him. That's how HVIDRA and veterans and everyone else should be given public authority as well as the Hunting Union, so everyone, every one of their own laws, their own interrogators, their own printers, and who knows what they don't. So I think that sometimes this debate has been going on for so long, let the law go through the first reading, and now even in repair and amendments, it will certainly be those details and nom technical mistakes that have been made, and they will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47394	Thank you. Second replica, the respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to tell Mrs. Djakic and all of us. The law was inadmissible for a long time. However, you were referring to the situation in the hunting grounds as threatening certain hunting grounds especially in areas of special state care extinction and everything else. I also have to tell you the current law that is still worth giving you every opportunity to, with the proper supervision of the inspector's work and everything else is contained. I can ask you and myself who is responsible for the fact that both hunting inspection and all other state institutions do not carry out and do not check how hunting-economic bases are carried out in life. That's the point, because you're justifying that someone who competed and got a lease or concession for his nelados, and there's a strict and current law on the possibility of finding out why. Therefore, if you would question yourself if the plans and everything else were to be met that the hunting grounds are lagging behind, then there are hunting economic bases and hunting grounds for them should not be lag behind if individuals, companies, hunting associations meet what they have done in the competitions. Unfortunately, we can pass the best, best-quality law. If it is not strictly spent in life, if the inspectors, the hunting inspectors do not do their job, if the state administration does not do its job, it remains a dead letter on paper and it should be fought on one side. And about who has public authority and how much, regardless of whether it's an association of citizens or someone else, he gets from the state public authority, but to exercise it, he has to control how he exercises public authority, not who he is. It should not be afraid if the Croatian Hunting Union has public authority, but also has a strict exercise, and unfortunately so far it has not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47396	Thank you. Replicate reply, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47397	Mr. President, I think I made it clear what happened in the hunting grounds that were in the occupied part of the Croatian state. I said that they were totally devastated and that the game fund had been destroyed on them until the end, that the game was served for the diet stands, that even after the war, in the very war, there was also freed spaces and if there was little game left and it went without a trace of all those who were neither the hunting authorities nor anyone in the state, or the county, or the municipalities paid any compensation for the hunt. So, the powerlessness was until 1997, 1998, when order began to apply and the law began to apply when a concession and lease tender was opened and when it really tried to bring those hunting grounds into line with legal provisions, contract forms, insurance items like the bonds I said, insurance by insurance companies, insurance policies... in the game, and the damage of the savages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the Ministry and the Hunting Association are safe when they meet all these conditions. It is then those who must meet the plan and the programme they have submitted, and the inspection services and monitor the fulfillment and execution of the proposed plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47398	Thank you. And the third replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, allow my colleague Djakic to complete you. You said quote: "Unnatural propagation of the mongoose" I will also complete you the unnatural reproduction of the wolf. As he sings nicely from the water springs, and that's true, but unfortunately they've become no, it would be excessive if I said so, so I'll refrain from the real harm to the people, especially in the Dalmatian Zagora. You know that, I beg you, after the great Serbian aggression on the Republic of Croatia from the Dinar's Internet, everyone has landed in the Dalmatian Zagora. Not only do they cause damage to people every day to the flock of sheep, goats, and others, they have come down to the villages of the Dalmatian mountain where they have stayed often with the old population in coming both in danger and in human life. I beg you, as it is said, that this law prescribes the balance of the breeding of savages, take care of the wolf as well. That's what's necessary. Now recently in my village when they had no herds and no herds, then they slaughtered a guard dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47400	Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47401	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow me a few words on the proposal of the Hunting Law. Well, here's when we talk about hunting, then I always remember what hunting is like as an economic branch. For example, in neighbouring Hungary, I would like to point out that there are revenues from hunting in those forest organisations that deal with the branch at 12% of the total income of companies. If we were to reflect on our terms it would be far today, if we had such conditions and we had significantly higher incomes, and since hunting is primarily located in a wider area in rural areas it is one addition in Dalmatia of the tourist season, and in the continental part, I would say in some areas it is practically the backbone of any tourism. Here in some smaller environments, practical besides hunting tourism, you have no chance of any other kind of tourism. And in that part, I don't think that without significant investment in that branch we're going to be able to increase the revenue from that. And I think it's useful that, as a special supplement of income in rural areas, we have the space to place our products through ours, any hunting associations, any companies that deal with this business. And in that part of the law, first of all, here is that which has now come to the final proposal in the legal procedure after more than a year of debate on it. I can tell myself I'm satisfied with that proposal. Now finally, and you remember yourself what kind of debates were here over the past year in those few times over the law, that we had significant objections. And on this occasion, I have to say that the Ministry team did a good job and that after that, there was one set before that, so far, a new team that's here that did a good job and that law led to such a form that we can say that it satisfies greater interests, especially everyone who's going to deal with hunting. What I would especially like to point out is that, above all, one rises to the county hunting alliances and hunting associations that are the owners of hunting development in the Republic of Croatia and where practically all hunting lives occur through the county hunting alliances in which virtually all those involved in hunting in these areas are associated. And in that part, I think it is good that we have prevented those attempts of overcentralisation of any means, desires and powers that should go towards the Croatian Hunting Union, meaning according to some central unit, which should then be a cap and share a little bit with everyone on the hood and the powers and resources. And in that part, and I think the whole public was also bound to prevent the cap in the attitude from becoming conscious and to come up with this way, because we can practically say today that we have 4.5 of these big hunting loans that present the offer of hunting within Croatia. And also, in the future, this importance of the segment as an economic branch is likely to be even greater. Especially, as I said, it expands one tourist season, and also on those parts where we can practically say on the continent that other than hunting, we do not have any other tourist branches present in rural areas. Also, I think it's good that we finally here and allowed the inspection to start operating within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and it was not good this transitional period of 2 years, where the practical inspection did not have the full authority to do part of the hunting work. I hope now, after that practical law enforcement, we will allow these inspectors to get quality resources so that they can work. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think any of our hunting inspectors have an official car that can go out on the field, that they can conduct surveillance and insight on certain hunting grounds. I think it would be good if some of next year's funds were planned for these purposes, and not only meant the car, but also the computer and everything that was needed for an inspector to do his job in quality. This is where I appeal to both the secretary of state and the assistant to make sure that they are really committed and in the budget to enable one of the best, the best, the better conditions for our inspectors to do quality work for you. Also, here's what I've already mentioned about the question of the Hunting Union. None of the ans is against the Croatian Hunting Union, but I think the Hunting Union of Croatia must also experience one transformation in a way that it is not just a set of people who will receive travel bills and thus work. Because from those data that I have available, it is evident that the Alliance officials receive significant receipts without any work. Also, I read in the Hunting Vesnik, I regularly follow him, that first bill that was rejected here as one of the worst law proposals ever made in the Hunting Vesnik has experienced praises as the best proposal he has ever seen. So, obviously, there is a disproportionate number of hunting officials and all the other people who deal with this branch, and I especially think that fellow MPs here are Professor Josipovic's fines for all those indiscretions that were in that first proposal. For this reason, I expect a consolidation to take place in this association too, to feel this force that exists on the ground, and to move in the right direction towards what it is, why it is called. And she was invited to take care of the development of hunting to start publishing and certain professional literature, to start organizing everything that is missing today. Here, in the end, I would point out that here after all these debates in the House that we have, and I conclude that we have received one bill that here I think will bring to life both in practice and I personally think that we should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47402	Thank you. We've exhausted an individual debate. Debate by, five minutes by clubs. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47403	Your Honor, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the SDP counseling club will probably back this bill. I'm saying probably for reasons because, of course, there are other amendments to the amendments expected. There have been a number of amendments from the ranks of MPs and many of them would really help make this law better. What's the problem? Here it has already been said that the law has been passed in a long procedure and I would really say a little bit that we're bringing in a dossier, and we're a little tired of these discussions and solutions, and today there would be a lot of other things where a bad legal eye would find a problem. For example, Article 101, where they are mixed, is a mixed measure of confiscation of the case as a final measure and temporary confiscation of the case as a procedural measure during the procedure, so here I hope that the Proposer will correct it. However, what is the biggest problem and some letters that we believe all of us have received from associations and citizens who are interested is the problem of whether the balance of interest has really been affected. In my court, indeed, this law has made one progress towards the balance, and that has already been the case, especially with regard to that first proposal when what was predicted in relation to the Hunting Union was indeed an outrageous thing to say. However, in my court and most members of the SDP Club, there are still problems about the balance of interest, and it seems to me that hunters will be satisfied, I don't know about the game, which will be with the savages, but I doubt the land owners will be satisfied to the end and I'm afraid there will be some initiatives to examine the constitutionality. In fact, I think that the best thing from all of us here is the point when he warned about constitutional provisions that restrictions on ownership rights can go only with market compensation and when it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure it's hit all the way here, but let's let it go right now. I am also not sure that this trend of reducing the share in the fees that the owners have here is just one of these associations has warned us that in some previous versions of the law or previously existing laws the owner participated and with 90% in compensation here falls 50%, in compensation. I personally worry about it, in one of those previous discussions, I was worried that the owner of the land does not have an effective legal path to defend his interest, not to declare a hunting ground and it may be legitimate interest. But here we leave it for practice, and we somehow ask the proposings to study the proposed amendments well and to accept what can be accepted in their concept and make this law a little bit better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47404	Thank you very much. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47405	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here may I agree with my colleague Josipovic in most cases what he said. That it can be better, it can be, but that this is an attempt to reconcile all those sides that are involved with the meanings of landowners, animal protection associations and hunters themselves, that's a fact. How we cannot and must not forget and for the benefit that hunters make we must also think about those and protect those on the other side and all of these groups that I have mentioned. Since there are still shortcomings in this final proposal and some illogicalness, I suggest in front of the IDS Club that this law goes into third reading, and now let's just say it's only taxing what we consider to be problems. One of the major problems we see is the increase of these hunting areas to the damage of the local population with a lower fee on private land. In addition, owners are obliged to prove private ownership of their land each year, which, of course, generates additional costs for them, and their fees are reduced on private land, and for that same amount is increased by hunting companies. One of the problems that we feel is that it is not well solved by this legal proposal is perjury and we see it as one of the bigger problems. We believe that stricter control measures should be put in place and legally regulated by foreign hunters that when entering the Republic of Croatia they cannot bring with them weapons which are considered illegal or illegal under the law. One of the most important segments that we also consider not to be well solved is the inspection system carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy under this law, whatever it means by its regional units. I suppose of course that's it, the bodies of the state administration at county level. We at the IDS Club don't think it's a good model. The inspection model should be decentralisationd, and powers should be given to counties or units of regional self-government and its departments for the economy, as it is seen through this law that everything is centralised again and that the minister determines even the price of game. Some problems are also visible from contractual relations, i.e. it should be possible for all parties in the contract to have the possibility to terminate the contract, i.e. the owners are not allowed to do so now, and should be subject to certain conditions. It is also important to establish a hunting ground on the islands as referred to in Article 13(4). Its own hunting grounds can be established on an island or a group of islands of more than 500 ha, and I wonder if we have so far not only had negative experience with island hunting sites. These are also, for example, islands in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Cres, Krk, Rab, and at the same time in some uninhabited islands, the ministry does not allow sheep, goats to grow, so we suggest that the item be deleted. One segment is also important in this law, which is education and education, and we don't think it's well solved, and we've given amendments to Article 72, and I hope that if this law doesn't go to the third reading bar, that all amendments that have been submitted will be really well considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47406	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47407	It is incorrect that there are negative experiences on the islands in terms of hunting. In fact, we have very positive hunting experiences, and it always depends on whether we adhere to the laws and regulations in the maintenance of the hunting grounds, and especially when the Treaty on concessions is concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47408	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS and the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47409	Thank you, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. Here, let me briefly refer to this law on behalf of our Regional Party Club, so first of all, let me repeat that we support the initiative to get rid of hunting pragmatism in such a comprehensive way. Whether or not we will support this concrete law depends therefore on which amendments will be accepted during the debate on them. So what we warned yesterday is the importance of this hunt. There is therefore an importance in its single market so part, as part of a special, tourist offer. Therefore, tourist offers that would be present throughout, throughout Croatia, so not only in the coastal part of Croatia, on islands, but also in the continental part. So it's important to us, therefore, that the hunt gets support in that sense. On the other hand, it is also important to mention the role of hunting in the preservation and protection of flora and fauna. So, in our forests and our surfaces, and also recently hunting will play a role in protecting health. So we know what happened to the bird flu. That, too, a certain, therefore, feathered game can be a transporter of various diseases, and certainly hunters and hunting can play a very important role. In order to achieve all this together, we also need certain resources, in our opinion and not small resources, large resources are needed and in this sense we go with the proposal, with our amendment on redistribution, so in Article 27 which tells us, therefore, about redistribution or otherwise in the purpose of the funds derived from the concession. Article 21(1) therefore speaks of this redistribution. So 50% of the assets go to landowners without hunting rights that can be used by municipalities unless those assets are used. Our amendment goes towards point 2 according to the means 30% of the funds that are expected to go into the budget. Of these four points, therefore, these are one asset that is not intended but that is automatically entered into the budget. So you don't know what's going to happen to them anymore. So we suggest that these funds, if you don't already build some kind of hunting fund like this. proposed by the Croatian Hunting Union that these funds should also be strictly intended and intended for specific programmes to be given through the tender. We have such experiences in the work of the government. And precisely which would be directed towards the hunting association for the development of hunting. And there's a lot of our hunting units, hunting societies that need help, so they can fight their own competition in the right way. Here I think of competition on the other side of the border, Hungary, Slovenia etc., Bulgaria, Romania as new destinations, and with this condition our hunting societies cannot be competitive. And I also suggest that in paragraph 4, which speaks of the funds that go to the county to add the item of promiscation and information in the area of hunting, I fear that some of the funds that are provided here could not be used and then used in that way. So, if only the county and the City of Zagreb were to be invested, they could be invested in the promotion and information from the area of hunting, which would also be very useful. These funds would be very well used. Regions could be in front of... So to represent your tourist product and I think the funds would soon return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, we hope that these amendments to the club will not be accepted, then we might as well accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47410	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47411	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law because we believe that this final draft of the law has really arranged almost all of the problems in the area of the hunting economy. The fact that we have an existing law, that it has been in force since 1994, and that the biggest objections in its implementation have just been made out of it because the law was not in line with other laws that have been passed in the meantime, was not in line with the Law on the establishment of ministries and other administrative organisations, there was also the issue of inspection. And, of course, over those 10 years, certain questions have also come up that need to be resolved in a different way. The Proposer has made a lot of efforts to bring this law into line with the acquis, and also with those conventions in the area, these areas that regulate these issues and, of course, with the recommendations of the International Hunting Council that he has given his instructions and how these matters have been addressed in other European countries that we wish to join. The question of some colleagues here in the Assembly is whether landowners are suspended because Article 27 determines only the right of concession fee of 50%. We share the opinion that the owners have nothing to deny. For one simple reason the game is not owned by any landowner. The fact is that we have a long Croatian tradition in the hunting economy and that the hunting has always been tied to property on land, but the owner has never, even from our people's rulers to this day, been the owner of savages. He always had to come out and get the right to hunt and pay for it. This law allows any owner who has the right conditions, which means an appropriate area of land, and other conditions prescribed by this law to establish his own hunting ground. We also arranged questions to ensure the execution of the concession contract by introducing a two-year concession fee insurance. And here we are, precisely us in HDZ, sharing the opinion that our hunting associations need to reduce it, reduce the amount of that amount, and in that spirit we have given the amendment. Furthermore, just two more things to point out briefly, the question of the power of the Croatian Hunting Union has been resolved in an appropriate manner. It is primarily in line with the instructions of the International Hunting Council. And finally, the protection of savages and of savages. It has been properly resolved, and it is appropriate to resolve the structure of the inspection now as well as the powers and qualifications of the people who will carry out that inspection. I therefore point out once again in the end that the Croatian Democratic Community Club and its representatives will support the adoption of this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47412	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47413	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Širac, by incorrect argument, has actually seduced us and the public. In fact, game is neither the property of landowners, but neither hunters nor the hunting alliance, but game is good for the Republic of Croatia. But at the same time, it has been reduced and damaged by the right of the landowner to decide whether or not the hunter machine will enter its area. Therefore, it is not true that game is a hunter but a game of special concern and interest for the Republic of Croatia and yet Article 19 of each owner is obliged to take care of the game, each owner of the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47414	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47415	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP club is pleased that we finally got the law as much as it was made to have both a head and a tail and that it will be enforceable in relation to all that we know what we have been through in these years and two three months as long as it lasts from the first proposal, the final proposal of the Government to this day. But in the final part, I have to look back at something that is very important for both the state budget and the state. In fact, there's a lot of money going around in this area. There's a lot of money going around all over the place. First, I'm going to point out the question of concessions and the implementation of the hunting rights concession. Here if you take the data we have for various hunting sites things happen that go to harm the state budget. Let's just say the question of how and how certain hunting sites got under quotes their offer for concession was the best. It is a question of, say, the hunting grounds of Donja Mirna, Gosce, Jasenovac, Suhopoljska, Bilogora where they were far better bidders, but they were accepted because they were at that time most favourable. It is also a major problem that the earlier inspection found that the concession contract was not respected. For a large number of hunting sites, I will only give an example of Virovitsk bilogora, Krndija, the issue of hunting for Industrial Construction, but unfortunately, the State's Attorney's office did nothing even though it received a proposal to initiate a break-up procedure for such concessions. And it means only on these grounds because it's known how and how the amount of the concession is determined. It goes from 25 to 30 years old and the state loses huge funds there, according to some estimates, it's somewhere in various and hunting areas with all the elements and up to 500,000 euros, and that's not a small amount of money when it's all summed up. Another problem is the use of the right to hunt. There is an interesting so-called large game death syndrome in Croatia. I mean, under the quotes of the deaths of large-scale savages, and the deaths will be caused by the hunting of politicians, public figures and everyone else. I'm not saying here we are, you're not just public figures, there are other public figures. And now, let's say, I'm just going to illustrate to you for an example one year, in 2000, that according to the analysis in the hunting grounds of the state's hunting grounds, 30 to 50% of the game died even though the situation was completely different, so it's interesting that even that year, six bears died, 145 deer's throats, 172 deer, 675 feral pigs, and even 26 muflones died. Imagine, and the vets haven't determined anything about the situation. Therefore, it is obvious that inspection services must act, have authority, but must also act in all these situations as it is a matter of losing money belonging to taxpayers, which belongs to the state budget and which can be used far more wisely. Therefore, we can pass the law. This is a good law, but now we really have to go to implementation and do it strictly and literally in order to do what is necessary in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47416	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47417	I am correcting the incorrect allegations that under quotes will die in the hunting grounds and that this is the result of the actions of politicians and other structures. This could be the result of a possible bullet. However, it cannot be generalised who fired that bullet and I protest against this generalization of Mr Kovacevic since I personally am not a hunter or intend to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47418	And the second amendment to Damir Cain, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47419	First, the bear can't be treated like a throat, it's cattle, I mean cattle is throat, and the bear is something else. However, I was disturbed by this disabling of the dignity of this House when, at one point, Mr Kovacevic said that he was going to die as a result of poaching politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47420	Correction, Mr. Cain. Correction. Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47421	I'm correcting that. I'm correcting this part. They're going to get killed by poaching politicians. Probably 95 or maybe 98% of parliamentary deputies are not hunters and I simply want to fence myself from one of these qualifications that does not contribute to the dignity of this House and in general and under the allegations of the profession of politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47422	The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47423	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here after this debate yesterday and today allow me to conclude a few words on behalf of the HSS Club. First of all, I would like to conclude that after a year and a few days of working under this law we have reached a law that is acceptable to the general public and also to those who will carry out special activities in this branch. And as I said earlier in an individual debate, I would also like to conclude that hunting is one of the potential developmental tourist branches that delivers significant income especially in those areas in rural areas where there is no form of tourism in practice except hunting tourism. And also in those activities where there is developed tourism especially in the coast then is the addition of the tourist season and I think that as such branch should be seen as a source of income for our country and this significant source of income. For an illustration just to say that in our hunting grounds here are these hunting seasons the high-value trophy of deer savages, bear savages, and they carry more than 20,000 euros each of these trophies. Therefore, these are examples that show that it is worth investing in that branch and that, over several years of investment, we could come to those branches of pre-war that we had where I would point out that the income only in the area of Baranja, under which the lords of the Croatian forest were then around 3 million marks, and we are not now after these since the peaceful integration of eight years of return have not yet returned to those revenues. Although I would point out the example of our neighbouring countries, for example, Hungary, which has significant revenues from hunting where hunting is coordinated with the rest of the economy and where significant results are achieved in the tourist section. That is why it is also important that we, as a country that will have one part of this tourism, advocate increased investment in this branch and enables this law, because more rights have been returned to the county hunting alliances and hunting associations that are practically the backbone of hunting tourism development. That is why I think it is necessary for this law to be brought to life as soon as possible, especially in order to allow for one quality control through inspection services that need to be given greater importance and more significant means to be able to adequately control that law. The HSS Club has also proposed certain additions through amendments, I would not explain in detail. Let me just say that we advocate that it is also possible to take place in fenced areas where livestock production of cows, calves, which are fenced spaces to separate these areas from the hunting system and we expect these four amendments to make it possible to accept three of them and thus complete this law, that is, this bill. In the end, I'd have figured it out after time was up. The HSS Club will support the proposal of this law once again thanks to colleagues who have tried to get one after those initial proposals that have been very depressing, however, one excess law that will introduce more order into this branch and allow for a more high-quality and faster development of that branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47424	Thank you. Final review by Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47425	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. And this debate of the Hunting Law as well as the process of adopting it itself has shown that there is a great public interest in this area. I am pleased to have been involved in the adoption of the same different institution, association, Croatian Hunting Union. Surely legal solutions can always be better, but this law sets good grounds for developing hunting and game management. Huntings that are over 1050 in the Republic of Croatia should be managed in the best possible way, and every time it starts with stories of game management, it starts with farming, protection and then it comes with game hunting. Those who deal with this matter best know how much effort and financial resources should be invested to gain the quality of hunting and game. We can be encouraged to have world-renowned hunting grounds, to have a Baranja deer, to have in the same space and wolves and bears, lynx, a giant that is almost nowhere in Europe, and perhaps in the future and a grilled jumper that we heard here yesterday. But we also have areas as highlighted in the debate, where it is not managed in the best way, we have phenomena and perjury, so it is good that this law is set up by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, a hunting inspection whose task is just to prevent these occurrences on the ground and sanction them. So far, she hasn't been in the right position. Article 27 refers to the distribution of the remuneration of the hunt. We wanted to get as much funds back to the hunting grounds as possible. The owners of land without the right to hunt shall be determined by the compensation for restrictions subject to the right to hunt for other persons. These funds are also used in the districts and the City of Zagreb for the promotion of hunting in areas where hunting is accomplished. We have estimated that it is best to use these funds via the county and the City of Zagreb because of the large number of units of local self-government, because then there is too much depletion of funds. There have been words here about establishing the limits of the hunting grounds, and we are now in the ministry correcting the demands from the field, the limit of the hunting grounds where the need is found. It was also about hunting savages, the hunting safety belt, 300, 200, meters, hunting behavior, the use of hunting weapons. This law stipulates who can hunt game and how weapons can be used. Everything else beyond that is subject to sanctions. Surely, the training of hunters must be even higher in the course of hunting exams, and this law provides for examinations for certain areas of hunting, and that means hunting exams, hunting exams, trophy evaluation exams. This truly broad matter will be regulated by the creation of sublegal acts following the adoption of this law. And let me get this straight. I believe that this law is a step forward, especially by harmonising itself with the acquis of the European Union, and on all the users of this law is the obligation to keep hunting and game management in place, preserving the biological, ecological balances of the natural habitats of game and wild flora and fauna. The government will also consider all the proposed amendments and we will manifest ourselves when the time comes to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47426	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Hunting Act. Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Do you have a plate of amendments? Thank you. Amendment 1 to the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47428	It's unacceptable. Before entering a new...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47429	Grieving Jumper!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47430	The grizzly jumper, unfortunately, will wait a little while. So before introducing a new species of game, detailed research should be carried out and an assessment of the risk of the impact of the new species on the environment should be carried out and the legal procedure should be followed by the adoption of the legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47431	The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. My colleague Peronj is on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47432	So let the procedure be carried out, let the amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47433	My colleague Peronj...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47434	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47435	Amendment withdrawn, so the grilled jumper... Is as chairman of the board it was obvious that on behalf of the board it was obvious. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 2 Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47436	It's unacceptable. The embrace of the wild is protected by the Regulation on the protection of certain species of birds, "The People's News" No. 43/95. and 75/02.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47437	So a wild turtledove. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47438	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47439	The wildebeest also goes along with the mangled jumper. It's an HSS rep club, a cow-tele system.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47440	This amendment shall be accepted, but in the form of fertilisers, fruit and vine plantations intended for intensive production and pastures if they are fenced by a fence that prevents the natural migration of hairy game.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47441	A colleague of Ledinsky's?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47442	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47443	Thank you. The amendment accepted, so that breeding in the cow-body system and hairy game remains. Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47444	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47445	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47446	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47447	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 5, also an agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47448	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47449	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six, Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47450	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47451	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven, Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47452	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47453	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8, Representative Mark
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47454	It is accepted, but with one amendment, which reads: "In Article 18(2), in the second sentence, the words "and two members of the Croatian Hunting Union" are added: "which are authorised by the Chamber of Forestry Engineers of the Wooden Industry for Hunting Affairs".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47455	A fellow Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47456	Mr. President, since this is a better statement, I accept that suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47457	Thank you. Only this should be clearly written, and two members of the HLS in order to avoid confusion somewhere, the Croatian Hunting Union should be accurately written, not acronyms. 9, Alenka's representative, Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47458	It's unacceptable. The law provides that those tasks may be carried out exclusively by persons with a high level of professional training with VII/I, which will mean a master’s degree of forestry under this law which regulates higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47459	Honorable representative of Alenka Koèa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47460	Thank you very much. In addition to the university studies found in the final proposal of the Law at the University of Karlovac, a professional study of hunting and nature protection is conducted, and the study programme of the study in question processes the content treated by this law much more detail than is possible in university studies. In a new law that regulates higher education and titles that they receive, there is no Syntagma with completed college, the corresponding name and titles of first graders. Since persons who have completed their studies under previous regulations have the titles and statuses set out in this Act, they should also be provided for in the text of this Act, but new names should also be given, as their holders will soon be on the labour market. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47461	Please engage. There's a vote to vote on. We can vote. The result? 25 for, 8 abstentions, 55 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10 has been consummated because it is identical...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47462	Unacceptable, reasoning as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47463	...the previous amendment. Amendment 11 of MPs Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47464	It's unacceptable. This question is addressed in Article 45.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47465	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47466	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47467	Amendment 11. 12, MPs Marko Širac and Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47468	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47469	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13, House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47470	It's unacceptable. So far, the practice has shown that this is the form of insurance that was prescribed by the Hunting Law did not meet expectations for the payer, while at the same time they were financially burdening the hunting authorities. They can still provide hunting grounds for game damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47471	Dear Representative Ledinsky, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47472	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47473	Amendment 13 withdrawn. Amendment 14...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47474	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47475	Wait a minute, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47476	Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47477	Excuse me. It's about purebred dogs and dog exams, Alenka Koshasha MP Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47478	It's unacceptable. Every dog that has a birth certificate is thought to be purebred in its breed. This Law prescribes minimum conditions for the dog to be eligible for participation in hunting, while at the same time it does not prevent dog owners from continuing to school their dogs in accordance with the regulations of the Croatian Kinological Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47479	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to add why this amendment was proposed. Namely, this is about purebred hunting dogs used in hunting. They are registered with the Croatian Kinological Union. It is not a question that impure dogs can, of course, be hunted and used for hunting. However, the test of innate traits does not prove that the dog is capable of performing hunting tasks. It's a dog-schooler who's already given birth to an heiress. So we're talking exactly about hereditary traits which, of course, you have no guarantee that they'll go from generation to generation. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47480	Please, there's a vote to be made. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 13 for, 5 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15, also advocates of Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47481	It's unacceptable. Over a thousand hunting grounds were established in the Republic of Croatia, and we believe that it is not necessary for each hunting ground to determine the area for the training of hunting dogs, but only those hunting authorities would do so to meet the rules of the Croatian Kinological Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47482	It's a work-use license for hunting dog exams. That's what he deserves you to go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47483	So you're not accepting this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47484	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47485	Thank you. In order for a dog to be brought into the hunting grounds and used in the hunt, he must have a working exam and to be able to access the exam, he must be allowed to study. As only possible in the hunting grounds within the framework of work-hunting discipline, it is therefore necessary to oblige the concessionaire to enable the training of dogs. In the last 40 years, this solution was incorporated into the Law on the Hunting and Quality of Dogs was incomparable at a higher level. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47486	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 19 for, 7 abstentions, 54 against. He didn't make it. The Club of Representatives, 16th Amendment, PGS Representatives Club, SBHS and IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47487	It's partially accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47488	There's no one from the club. We must vote on that part of the amendment that has not been accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Six for, ten abstentions, 59 against. He didn't make it. This paragraph 4 by adding the fourth subparagraph, that is, you accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47489	Yeah. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47490	Thank you. 17th, MPs Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47491	It's unacceptable. The funds referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be designed by law to improve hunting at the level of the county, and the means of spending will be determined by the county, and shall be submitted once a year to the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47492	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47493	The essence of this amendment is not how the funds will be allocated, but it has not been regulated before in the past law until such funds have to be stored in a special account. It is here that the owner has to look within a year, which has not been the case so far, and those funds could be sought in 10 years. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47494	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 19 for, four abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 18 also advocates Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47495	It's unacceptable. We believe that the starting price of the hunting lease is established on the basis of 25% of the value of the shot game in the 10th year of validity of the hunting-economic base is too low.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47496	Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47497	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47498	18th Amendment withdrawn. 19, representatives Marko Širac and Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47499	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47500	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 20. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47501	It's unacceptable. No insurance shall ensure the enforcement of the rules on that economic basis as a basic act of hunting management or provide damage to gamers by poachers. Therefore, so far the insurance obligation of this Bill has been amended by a guarantee obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47502	Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47503	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47504	Amendment withdrawn 20. 21, MP Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47505	It's unacceptable. The law stipulates that those tasks can be performed exclusively by persons with a high level of expertise 7/1, which will mean a master’s degree of forestry by applying a new law that regulates higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47506	Thank you. Here you go. He's gone. We have to vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 12 for, 5 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We also voted in favour of Amendment 22, Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain, who is identical to that which has been rejected. 23rd, Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47507	It is accepted with the amendments, which read: "In Article 47, at the end of the text, the point is deleted and the words are added: "with a professional examination and authorised for hunting activities."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47508	Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47509	Mr. President, it's a better statement and I accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47510	Amendment adopted in the proposed amended format. Representative Dorotea Pesic Bukovac, 24 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47511	If this is the case in Article 48, Article 55 is not accepted, we consider that the distance provided by law is acceptable to all interested parties and Article 66 is not accepted. The Hunting Association is a voluntary organisation, and membership in the hunting association is not always for hunting, but training for a hunter is proven by a hunting card.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47512	Thank you. Therefore, the amendment to Article 48 was not accepted, at 55 and 66.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47513	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47514	Thank you. In this second part of the dressed amendment. 25 HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47515	It's unacceptable. These distances are sufficient as a hunting safety belt, in addition, a 500-metre belt would exclusively be the possibility of hunting in many common hunting grounds, thereby increasing the damage from game on non-hunting surfaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47516	A colleague of Ledinsky's?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47517	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47518	Thank you. Amendment 25 withdrawn. 26th Alenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47519	It's unacceptable. Every dog that has a birth certificate is thought to be purebred in its breed. This law prescribes minimum conditions for the dog to meet and to participate in hunting, while at the same time it does not prevent dog owners from further schooling in accordance with the regulations of the Croatian Kinological Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47520	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47521	Thank you. Amendment 26 withdrawn. 27, MPs Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47522	It's unacceptable. A written call by the poachers confirms that a foreign citizen will be carrying out hunting with the poacher, not on some other surfaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47523	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 28th Representative Dorotee Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47524	This is the way article 70 is not accepted. The hunting authorities may be legal and natural persons, as well as associations that are not members of the County Hunting Union, i.e. the Hunting Union of the City of Zagreb, and would be placed in a subordinate position. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The hunting test does not obtain a title, i.e. it does not allow a qualification to be entered into the workbook. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We believe that the lower limit for taking a hunting test is adulthood, and item 4 is just prescribed, is the same as in the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47525	Now take it easy. So, you didn't accept the amendment to article 70?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47526	No, it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47527	Okay. We'll see you first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47528	He's giving up. In Article 72, you accepted paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47529	Item 2, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47530	You've accepted, and you've accepted one.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47531	Paragraphs 1 and 3 are not, and 4 is the same as, it's just prescribed by law means.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47532	We give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47533	Okay. Amendment to Article 72(2), adopted on 1st, 3rd and 4th, shall be withdrawn by the applicant. 29th Amendment of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47534	It is not accepted because Article 72 does not mention the words of a graduate forestry engineer, a forest course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47535	Amendment withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47536	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47537	Amendment 30 of Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47538	It's accepted with a change. The inspection in the first degree may also be carried out by a forest inspector on the basis of a special solution to the mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47539	Representative Marko Širac. What? ... Amendment adopted in this proposed amended form. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment 31 of MP Nikola Vuljanić. It wasn't already? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47540	It's unacceptable. It's the same explanation as before. The law stipulates that those tasks can be performed exclusively by persons with a high level of expertise 7/1, which will make clear the application of a new law regulated by a higher education a master’s degree of forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47541	He's gone. We have to vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 17 for, 8 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. It's amendment 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47542	Same thing. He's identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47543	It is identical, so it is not voted on, because it was previously rejected with the same content. Amendment 33 to Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47544	It's unacceptable. The authorising officer shall be responsible for issuing a hunting permit and shall therefore be obliged to carry out the verification of the persons to whom the authorisation is granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47545	It's the same explanation as at the beginning, so I withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47546	Amendment 33 withdrawn. Thank you very much. 34 representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47547	It's fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-16-0.u47548	Accepts entirely. Thank you. We're going to vote on the law as a whole. I am voting on the final proposal of the Hunting Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes for, 7 abstentions and 2 against, the Hunting Law was passed, in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Today we're going to go to normal with a break, and what we get to, say, 17.30 that we get on this, exactly in this order. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Authorised State Revisors, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 379 Proposer of the Law is Government. We've accepted an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I'd like the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, Antu Zigman, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
