ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31806	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. As Mr President has said, this report is based on Article 36. The Law on the Protection of Competition with the aim of meeting the Croatian Parliament as the founder of the Agency's fundamental activities and tasks in the past year, or already in the year before, the results of its work, as well as the problems we face in the implementation of the law, and finally the views and proposals of the Agency, how to improve and make the system of competition in our country more effective and efficient. The second aim of the report is to get to know the general public with the objectives of competition policy, the importance and policy of strengthening the market economy in our country and strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian businessmen and the role this policy has or should play in the role of consumer protection. The relevant report is structured and thematically processed, starting with the methodology for drawing up annual reports on competition policy in the European Union. Let me now say in a few sentences about the core activities of the agency in 2003, with the fact that we will, of course, also make some suggestions on how to improve the work of the agency. The main feature of the Agency's activities in 2003 is implementation and adaptation to commitments made to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In line with the SDP, the area of competition with trade issues falls under priority areas such as harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union and the application of rules including the obligation to apply instruments with interpretation adopted by the Community institutions. This is also why the report has special attention given to this area, and the role of the Agency in the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As well as the importance of applying the rules on competition in increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. In 2003, the Agency prepared and developed a new Competition Protection Act, which was in line with the commitments made by the SAA in line with the eloquent provisions of the legal property of the European Community, i.e. Articles 81, 82 and 86 of the Treaty establishing a Community. In view of the scope of the legal gain in this area of harmonisation, the fundamental parts of Achi have been transposed into the Law on the Protection of Competition and other provisions, the law provided that the Croatian legal system is to be incorporated through the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Council. In addition to the installation of the basic principles, the Achia Law also contains new procedural provisions and a new organisation of the Agency is arranged. In place of the Director, the Agency shall be managed by the Competition Protection Council. In addition to its activities in preparing the draft law and sub-legislative acts and the new organisation of the Agency during 2003, the Agency carried out its regular activities in law enforcement. By October 1st, the old law, and from October 1st of the Law, which I had just said something about. During 2003, 150 administrative cases were opened, including assessments of the deal of abuse of the ruling position, concentrations of entrepreneurs from which about 78% of the cases were solved in the same year. In addition to the work on administrative matters, the Agency has carried out other tasks, given opinions on amendments and additions of laws to new laws and other regulations, carried out international cooperation activities. In order to improve knowledge of the nature of the Agency's work, the report presents selected items, indicative and interesting cases from the Agency's work. In addition to other activities, the Agency has also worked on promotion and advocacy of the competition culture of the so-called competition, as part of its material and human resources. Cometition advocacy with the aim of developing and raising the level of awareness and knowledge and information of state bodies, consumers and the general public on the importance and role of policy and competition rights in the further development of competition and economy in our country. In this respect, in order to ensure transparency of the Agency's work, the Agency's solutions are published in "National Journals" public statements are published on the Agency's website, conferences are organised, specialized publications are published, seminars are held, etc. As this Report aims to point out the existing weaknesses in the implementation of the competition protection system and which stand in the way of establishing an effective system of special attention in the Report, it is precisely the issues and problems of the exercise of competition law, which point to possible solutions which, in our opinion, would have seen weaknesses if they had not already completely eliminated it to the least possible extent. What's this about? The first tasks relating to the protection of competition have been given competence to the Agency. As an institution, sui generis is responsible for the implementation of the Competition Protection Act. But only if competition protection issues are not based on specific rules in the jurisdiction of another body. Other regulations and other bodies are also relevant for competition in certain activities. For example, the Law on Banks specifically addressed the problem of protecting competition in the banking sector and given the power to implement it to the Croatian National Bank. The Telecommunications Act also regulates the area of competition in the telecommunications sector, and implementation has been verified by the Agency or the Telecommunications Council The problem is that these rules do not cover comprehensive competition in those activities but only some issues. Therefore, the Competition Protection Act is also a source of competition law and for these activities. However, there is often a problem especially in implementation. The conflict of jurisdiction, and so on. Furthermore, regulatory authorities are not human-structured in a way that finds experts in the field of competition law in their professional services. Therefore, the reasons for the Agency’s cooperation, i.e. the Competition Protection Council, with those councils and with those regulatory bodies, are necessary and are gradually established. However, it remains questionable whether only cooperation but not system changes can resolve the system, i.e. to introduce effective competition in these activities. Secondly, one of the preconditions for the effectiveness of the Agency's work but also the system as a whole is of course effective work of courts. They decide on the legality of the Agency's decisions. THE courts that impose penalties for violations of the provisions of the law. The Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia shall decide on the legality of the decisions of the Agency. Such arrangements shall be followed by a general arrangement of judicial protection against decisions of the administrative authorities. However, in the event of the enforcement of the rules and the protection of competition, it does not provide sufficient quick and effective legal protection for the length of the proceedings. Procedures take an average of up to 3 years. But also because of the lack of specialized judges. At the same time, although penalties are prescribed by the new law in line with those in the European Union, the extended deadlines are obsolete and further questionable enforcement of the legal solutions mentioned is the reason why the penalties are imposed by the criminal courts and the appeals against the solution is decided by the High Court of Violation. The effectiveness of such a system speaks sufficiently of the fact that since 1997, only 4 penalties have been charged to the Agency and since the existence and operation of the Agency. This practice in the European Union and its members has mostly been abandoned long ago. In view of these weaknesses, we hold that a more logical and economic purpose would be a solution whereby the control of the legality of the decisions of the Agency and of other regulatory authorities would be placed in the jurisdiction of commercial courts, in which it could be easier to ensure greater efficiency and specialisation of judges. Third, one of the preconditions for strengthening the role of the Agency is also its staff strengthening the education of employees and all those involved in the competition protection system. First of all, the judges, because it is extremely complex and specific legal economic matter. Therefore, additional resources are needed which, as always, depend on the possibilities of the state budget. The number of employees in the Agency, regardless of their above-average professional qualifications, is far below the standards of both new and old members of the Union. Therefore, the European Union, as one of the most important issues in the field of competition, has also cited the continuing need for continued administrative strengthening, i.e. the capacity of the Agency. Of course, this task is accomplished, I can say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has foreseen for this year, i.e. you, as parliamentary representatives, voted in favour of the Agency's work and to increase its effectiveness. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31807	Thank you very much. Committee on European Integration, Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored President Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31808	Mr. President, ma'am from the agency, respected MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 17th session held on 3 November 2004 discussed the annual report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the field of competition for 2003 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Competition Protection Agency by an act of 28 September 2004. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above annual report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the proposings, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, to the ministry according to which the ministry agrees with the report submitted. The debate followed shows the fact that such agencies in the European Union have great weight in terms of their competence. On the basis of the above, it is proposed that more competences be prescribed to this agency than those existing ones. It is also suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should provide sufficient resources for the work of this agency when submitting a proposal for a state budget. It is pointed to the error observed on page 49 under point 4 which consists of the term... mistranslated by the proposing representatives and accepted. [[The speaker speaks English, he doesn't understand.]] Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. The Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the area of competition for 2003 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31809	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, the SDP club's respected representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31810	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Director of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. I think the debate on the agency's report is an opportunity to talk about the Croatian market in general. Indeed, basic or fundamental transitional changes in the area of the state system occurred in the change in the ownership and market economy regime. Croatia in our court has valid assumptions and conditions for development and for greater economic growth than the current and many countries with which Croatia compares, especially from countries in transition. Of course, Croatia also has restrictions. One of the groups of restrictions on Croatia's further development is the non-building of institutional infrastructure, including infrastructure for the protection of competition, especially for consumer protection. In fact, it can be said that today's economic and then the social problems in Croatia would be much smaller if the transition from socialist, social property and the planning economy to the market economy were built first by the institutions of the market system, and then shifted to conversion and privatisation. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. The market, i.e. a completely free market without any restrictions and regulation, is understood as an all-powerful and just mechanism that best manages to allocate production resources and best distribute income among citizens. It may be a theoretically ideal situation of the perfect market, but in textbooks it can exist but in practice there is no such market anywhere, nor was it, nor would it be. Croatia, moving in transition 15 years ago, was far from the perfect market by definition and began to build a market economy as if Croatia were, as if there were ideal conditions in Croatia for the perfect market. It went into a unique, unique privatisation process, however, in the sale without a built system of market institutions that would ensure that privatisation results in long-term social interests, i.e. those objectives announced by privatisation. The result of such an approach was seen here in the Parliament the other day when a report of the State Audit was discussed and the consequences of privatisation in the Croatian economy and Croatian society in general. Therefore, privatisation in the Croatian way led to the loss of countless economic programmes, especially jobs, and enabled the creation of a monopoly in the Croatian market. Croatia has also implemented an unreasonable liberalisation of foreign trade without institutions that would allow it to survive and develop Croatian production, Croatian employment, increase Croatian competitiveness. Let's just remember in the '90s how the minister threatened Croatian producers told them that he would free and open borders for importing foreign goods to lower the price of Croatian products. This is what we have today, some new acute and current minister is threatening to open the border and introduce medicines without taking care of Croatian manufacturers and Croatian drug distributors. The second error in the market economy was that there was no regulation in the market economy. The fact that regulation is unique to socialist economies was taken completely wrong. If the market were to operate on its own and would, by its natural automation, be the most efficient distribution of production resources and the most fair distribution of national income, then the economy as a science would neither exist nor would it be necessary for the government to deal with economic issues, i.e. the unnecessary resolutions of the economy ministry, finance, agriculture and tourism and others dealing with the economy. With regard to the development of the market economy in Croatia in the last 15 years, two colossals, two directions can be observed. One is when governments, or governments of Croatia act as administrative distributors of social resources between different industries without industrial policy between different companies without policy and industrial organisation, between different regions without regional policy, and the construction of networks, an institution of the market economy is neglected. On the second track, the market is left to spontaneous development without any significant regulation. All this has led to the situation in the Croatian economy, who has become richer and richer, and whoever does not will become poorer and poorer. So the policy continues to protect the wealthiest rich people in privatisation. Unfortunately, these two colossals in the development of the situation ultimately end up on one track, and so that the industries and businesses concerned by the state are led to the situation that are being transferred to the unregulated market for one kuna. This isn't about wealth, it's about monopolies whose result is wealth. Today, Croatia is very close to becoming a hostage of the results of such a policy, specifically a monopoly and the domination of a few companies and banks in Croatia. Unfortunately, neither banks nor such companies have a national dimension nor a national responsibility for the development of the economy, and in particular markets, they do not care. The fight against a monopoly position is the basis for market economy development and market development in general. Democracy and the market are developing in parallel, one without another cannot. The development of the market enables the development of democracy and vice versa. These are synonyms. The buyer has the possibility and freedom to choose goods on the market, and the citizen has the possibility of freedom of choice and political options. For each other, it's an option of choice. There's no such choice in a monopoly. The main characteristics of the monopoly are the inefficient use of production resources, high product prices and high profits, high unemployment, unfair distribution of income. All this prevents the country's economic and social development. The analysis would absolutely show that Croatian society is a slave to such tendencies. All economic and social problems today in Croatia would have been much smaller if it hadn't been for them and if there was still no wrong understanding of the market economy. Today we are discussing the work of the Competition Protection Agency, one of the most important institutions for a successful market system. When we talk about the structure, development, obstacles, dangers, perspectives of the Croatian market, we cannot speak properly without a quality competition protection agency and its assessment of the market as a whole. However, beyond the importance of the agency, the agency has not yet been adopted as a benchmark of value. The issue of the agency is not the political issue of the ruling and the opposition. It is not a political issue of one party, so it is a question of the future of the development of the country and future generations. The fight against competition restrictions is a priority issue on economic growth. The regulated market increases the competitiveness of Croatian society and Croatian economy. To this end, the most important institution is the Competition Protection Agency. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that entrepreneurs in order to increase their profits are looking for different opportunities to achieve any form of monopoly position on the market, because the biggest profit brings them this monopoly position. Most of these monopolies are not visible at first sight. Entrepreneurs are making great efforts to cover them up. To identify many of them, they need complex professional and scientific methods. In this business, entrepreneurs and governments, i.e. government institutions, or independent market regulation institutions, are outplayed. The first to accept, the second to discover a monopoly position. In view of the expertise, the complexity of business, the detection of monopolies, other forms of restrictions on free competition, but also of reducing the impact of policy on such assessments, special institutions are set up to prevent activities leading them to a restriction of the competition. As the monopoly position today reaches a significant share in the Croatian market, many new steps need to be foreseen. Some of them are ready for moves that are out of line with business ethics and are legally illegal. A significant part of corruption and bribes are related to the acquisition and preservation of the monopoly position. This form of corruption also has the biggest negative effects on the country's economic and social development because its effects are long-term. Therefore, the fight against monopoly is also one of the major measures against corruption in society as a whole. Croatia is full of monopolies, as they are created can be evaluated in their own way, but they actually exist. But they are still being created, which means new obstacles are being set before the development of the Croatian economy. All of this I am saying to emphasise the importance of freedom of competition and the importance of the Competition Protection Agency in general, without which further economic and social development is not possible. In general, some remarks on the work of the Agency may be made of greater importance or minor importance. However, it should be borne in mind that the agency is at the beginning of its action. For the Agency's successful work, two elements will be crucial. First, both the Parliament and the Government understand the role of this Market Economy Development Agency, so directly or indirectly to a socially valid economic match. Second, training of experts of the Agency of different profiles for the purpose of identifying different forms of restrictions on the competition. First of all, politics, i.e. the Government should provide a place for the Agency to which it belongs in the development of the market economy and protect it from the pressures that come from existing monopolies or those who try to become so. In particular, the Government must not implement policy and make decisions that ensure a monopoly position for certain companies, and this is still happening. A monopoly position can only have a state-owned company under strict conditions, and before privatisation of such a company should ensure market conditions of business, if market conditions can be ensured, then the solution is, if it is not possible to secure market conditions, then the concession solution is the solution. Because the basic rule is, a private company should act under market conditions. In the end. The SDP Club supports the Agency's work report, and concrete remarks on the report itself will give individual discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31811	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31812	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the Minister of Health has also taken a measure that goes towards an anti-market approach in some way to pose problems and the threat of importing drugs. It is, in fact, a measure of patient protection, in turn, to break up the monopoly of those who are on the drug market today and to avoid the blackmails that these same and wholesales and manufacturers make in the Croatian system because it is known that the group belongs to the ten most profitable companies in Croatia. Therefore, the measure is to protect patients, not to eliminate the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31813	Honorable representative Valter Poropat, IDS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31814	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Competition Protection Council, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club will support this year's report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the field of competition for 2003 not only because of the detailed analysis of the Agency's reports and difficulties, but also because of real and concrete proposals for the possibility of improving and working the Agency and the Competition Protection Council, which is the essence of effective competition, i.e. the establishment of a market where entrepreneurs participate equally and under the same conditions, and their position on the market is valued solely by the quality of the products and services they offer. The strengthening of entrepreneurial creativity regulates competition that raises quality and determines the price of products and services, while consumers are given the option to select more offered products and services than multiple providers. And what's most important is better quality and lower prices. It is precisely mentioned that the task of competition law which prevents any form of monopoly or prevents measures and practices on the market which may lead some entrepreneurs to an unfairly favourable position in relation to others and threatens the freedom of competition. The task of the Competition Protection Agency is determined by the Competition Protection Act, but to ensure that competition law is implemented effectively, it is necessary to promote and develop a culture of competition. It is also necessary to cooperate with specific regulatory bodies such as the Agency. cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, therefore, the bank sector regulator or the Telecommunications Agency, etc. In view of the fact that the Law on the Protection of Competition applicable from 1 October 2003, the job of harmonising legislation in this area with the acquis of the European Union has not been completed. The law provides for the adoption of a series of sublaws, and an important source of competition law in the European Union is also a case law. In order to effectively implement the Law, this will require a lot of efforts to institutionally strengthen the Agency, but it will also be necessary to specialise the judges because they decide on the legality of the decisions of the Agency. This report shows that despite the fact that the Agency had been without a head authority for 6 months. By the middle of October of last year, when the Croatian Council for President-in-Office of the Council appointed the distinguished Mrs. Spevec, even 78% of the cases received or about 150 administrative cases were resolved, and so much opinion was given. Then we can say that a great deal has been done and done in the Agency itself. However, the Competition Protection Agency does not have the power to impose penalties and to implement the provisions of the Law, but the penalties are imposed by infringements of courts, and the decision of the Agency is decided by the Administrative Court on the legality of decisions. This kind of thing does not provide quick and effective legal protection and leads to legal uncertainty because of the longevity of criminal and administrative disputes without the ability to impose penalties, statutes and the like. As a result, the Agency should be given greater powers, whether amending the Act or sublegal acts, but decisions, i.e. the Agency's solutions, must be implemented, and in the jurisdiction of the Trade Court shall be the control of the legality of the solution and decision of the Agency in order to be put against the monopoly in due time and correct. I believe that the Agency has done a great deal of work and that it is our responsibility to give the Agency for the Protection of Competition the greatest powers that will, of course, ultimately lead to the exploitation of the monopoly as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31815	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31816	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Competition Protection Council, which is the correct name. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the Republic of Croatia, the economy is based on the principles of a free market in which the distribution of funds is theoretically and practically seen as a result of the relationship between supply and demand in the market. The legislation and competition policy in this respect aim to establish a market in which entrepreneurs, competitors, can participate equally and under the same conditions, i.e. compete in this competition, and their position depends solely on the quality of the products or services they offer. In this respect, quality in a broader sense means quality in a narrow sense, i.e. quality, price, delivery time and the like. The legislation and competition policy will thus prevent the creation of monopolys and prevent abuses of the already existing dominant position of entrepreneurs on the market, prevent the creation of cartels that generally result in price and market sharing agreements. In this way consumers also get the option to choose between a number of products, services, providers, quality, prices, etc. The legislation, i.e. competition law, must therefore prevent a situation in which certain competitors may be in an unwarranted position compared to others. The mentioned competition policy has been translated into the Competition Protection Act for which the implementation of which is responsible, i.e. in charge of the Competition Protection Agency, whose Labour Report for 2003 is currently under discussion. However, other regulations are important for the competition in certain markets, as the report says. The Law on Telecommunications, Banks, the Law on Energy Activities, the Electronic Media, the Law on Post and the like. In these rules, the protection of competition is entrusted to special regulators where the Competition Protection Act constitutes the basis of the legitimate competition for the mentioned activities. Therefore, cooperation between the Agency and regulatory authorities is necessary to protect competition in these activities. The entry into force of the current Competition Protection Act on 1 October 2003, the preparation of which mainly covered the preparation of the Agency in 2003 made a major step towards the approximation of Croatia's legislation in this area of the European Union legislation. But the work of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union has not yet been completed. This is also the opinion of the European Commission, Avis, in April 2004, which points out that certain aspects of the Competition Protection Act, such as, for example, the decision-making process on the futility of restrictive agreements, requests further amendments and complements in order to fully comply with the acquis of the European Union. This applies to the fulfilment of the conditions for exemption from the prohibition of restrictive agreements. Furthermore, Avis notes that the Croatian General Administrative Procedure Act is potentially mixed and clashed with the Competition Protection Act. In this respect, it is recommended that, in order to ensure full independence of the Agency, the possibility of adopting an extraordinary solution to the suspension under the General Administrative Procedure Act which is contrary to the Agency's decision is completely excluded. Only these two mentioned details from Avis, and there are others, say that there is much more work to do in the process of harmonisation, that there is much to be changed in the Law so that the Agency can do its job in the right sense of that word. Some of the jobs ahead relate to the adoption of a series of sub-legislative acts in line with the secondary legislation of the European Union. Furthermore, in order to apply European standards and criteria, it will be necessary to institutionally strengthen the Agency materially and humanely, as well as further educate the employees of the Agency. In view of the current case-law, it is a relatively new branch of law, which has only been in force in the Republic of Croatia for a few years, it is necessary to specialise the judges who decide on the legality of the Agency's decisions. The difficult situation in the functioning of the agency in 2003, as we have already heard, is the fact that the agency has been without a leader for almost half a year. However, after changes in the organisation of the agency and the appointment of a new head, even with the fact that too few employees, the agency managed to end a high percentage of the items received concerning: evaluations of the agreement of entrepreneurs, control of concentration, abuse of the ruling position, expert opinions, opinions on compliance of legislative proposals with the Competition Protection Act, etc. In addition, the Agency shall also be responsible for the tasks of approval and supervision of the implementation of general and individual state support and for the return operations of the aid mentioned if it is given contrary to the rules already discussed by this Assembly. ... the implementation of rules on the protection of competition assumes the effective work of the Agency, but also the effective work of the courts, the Administrative Court which decides on the legality of the decisions of the agencies, and the criminal courts that impose penalties for infringements of the provisions of the Competition Protection Act, which in practice makes problems and lengthy proceedings. The Agency does not have the power to impose penalties for infringements of the Competition Protection Act, but the penalties are imposed by criminal courts, and the appeals are decided by the High Court of Infringement. This procedure is followed by a general order of judicial protection against the decision of the administrative authorities, which in this case often means legal uncertainty, the long-term nature of administrative disputes, not the imposition of penalties by criminal courts for statutes, etc. Finally, the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in 2003 shows all the circumstances in which the Agency worked. The Croatian Democratic Community's club assesses this year's report as positive, and will accept it as well. In addition, we will support and accept all initiatives that will enable effective implementation of competition protection rules in accordance with practice and standards in the European Union through the necessary amendment of all the necessary rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31817	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, the club of representatives of the HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31818	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. President-in-Office of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to say that we will support the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. The reasons are, above all, that a new Law on the Protection of Competition was adopted last year, where this area is better covered, and it is also important that this law is in line with the European Union's assets, so sublegal acts have been adopted. The important thing is that it is also in its new status and implemented by the Council for Protection and it has been functioning since last year in a different way. And, of course, we're happy with what it says about the number of cases solved, and 78% of the cases in the last year have been solved. We also support the aspirations to improve the effectiveness of implementing rules on the protection of competition, as it is known that the agency does not have the legal authority to impose penalties for violation of the law, the penalties are imposed by infringements, and the complaints are decided by the High Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall decide again on the legality of the decisions of the Agency and of all other regulatory bodies. I believe that a more quality solution in the implementation of these rules is to entrust these cases to a specialised court here in the proposal in the report, it is said that it would be good for the business to be carried out by the Commercial Court. I estimate that this is a good and logical solution, because it is the jurisdiction of the Trade Court, which could also be specialized in which we could have experienced judges, because we in Croatia are legally only following for a few years. The margin report also mentions a large number of competent authorities who also judge the competition without actually cooperating or exchanging experiences. The Croatian Peasant Party underlines the need for better regulation of relations in this area, and proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia ensure greater harmonisation by amending the necessary regulations, and in some ways even obliges participants to increase efficiency and legal certainty in the area. In addition to the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition, the so-called competition is also taken care of. sectoral regulators. This is the Croatian National Bank for the Banking Sector, there is the Energy Regulatory Council, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, the Council for Electronic Media, the Post Office Council. And the law does not stipulate the obligation to coordinate those bodies. There's actually a principle of volunteering, and it's certainly not enough and it needs to be changed. Today we are witnessing one of these sectoral regulators' interventions. The Croatian National Bank regulated them because of the apparent excessive debt of domestic banks on the foreign market in such a way as to force them to increase the reserve. Generally known that the current debt or debt at the end of last year was more than $30 billion and estimates are also that it exceeded 80% of the social gross product. However, here we should also have an assessment of whether this increase in foreign debt was due to the real debt of banks due to the need for financing and lending within Croatia, or whether it is a speculative borrowing to increase their balances, as it is generally known that at the end of the year they are fighting for the positions that the bank in Croatia is the largest. I think this is a speculative approach, this is a third-place fight that will take third place in Croatia. And the data that we are in charge of because of the impact of banks 80% of the social gross product and over 30 billion, in any case harming the Republic of Croatia and entrepreneurship. So I would like to know if this is speculative borrowing and how the Croatian National Bank and other regulators can determine that? Due to the lack of links and cooperation between regulators, we have more current problems in Croatia, today we have been welcomed by employees of Croatian Post Office at the entrance to the Assembly, by those who have been providing courier services to private companies and for several months now, so we can say even for years, we do not know in Croatia whether Post has a legitimate or unwarranted monopoly, or what can couriers carry and how shipments in the Republic of Croatia? It would be high time for the competent regulator to make a statement about it. We have in Croatia, we have to make them work and cooperate. I'll also remind you of the phone subscription problem. Is the phone subscription a monopoly? Do we have to wait for several tens of thousands of citizens to press charges against companies still owned by the state, or should we regulate before that what is a telephone subscription? I'll also remind you of that famous second on the cell phone, where if we go over in a minute for a second of phone calls, we'll be counting on the next minute. There is still an unresolved agreement between the two mobile operators to the third one that will appear in Croatia because it is generally known that they agreed on prices for each other's network standing, of course at the expense of the third. Lately, we also have a strange setting of prices for blue diesel for agriculture. No one can convince me that it is not a monopoly because the formula for all the derivatives in Croatia is exactly the same, we have the same oil entry prices. However, we have different constituencies, so one type of derivatives collects 10% and the blue diesel collects 100% by the same criteria and by the same calculations. Obviously, the characteristics of all these are "state entrepreneurs" or companies that are holding a monopoly with themselves or with another co-owner in modern times. However, the Competition Protection Act should also apply to legal persons whose founders or shareholders are other than the state and unit of local self-government, better said county, cities and municipalities. Therefore, the fact is that without influence or actually not until the end of the market, prices of oil derivatives are formed which we have already said for a simple reason because the monopoly limits imports. There is a famous decision that every importer must have warehouses actually for the annual retail needs of selling oil derivatives. With electricity, we also have one distributor. In post office fixed telephony, one distributor, but let's not forget the local water prices monopolies, which keep channel prices and other services at local level. Entrepreneurs and the state, if it deals with entrepreneurship, such a fair competition is of interest, but it must also be attended by an auxiliary and main judge. It is the only way we can strengthen the economy in Croatia, and it is the only way we can boost its competitiveness. The HSS finds that the Competition Protection Act is tailored to the legal gains of the European Union but the harmonisation process is not completed in any case. The legal gains of the European Union are also good practice and good performance results with the aim of all entrepreneurs having the same conditions and customers being able to make the best choices. It is in this area that we often ignore, which is a practice in the European Union that we must pay our utmost attention in Croatia. We solve things formally and the essential problems remain unresolved. For a long time, it has been stressed in Croatia that there are import lobbys, that there are trade lobbys, banking, lawyers, construction etc. If there are likely and act absolutely certain that they are active and it is also more than certain that they are outside the competition. They don't want to win the game at the green football field, they want to win it at the green table. Because of such opportunities, the HSS stands for strengthening the role and independence of the agency, but also for all the other regulators that we have talked about, not because the European Union is asking us to do so, but because of the need to develop monopolies and strengthen competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31819	Thank you. The club of HNS-PGS representatives, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Comrade Marasović, you now have a different name for the club and Mrs. I got it yesterday. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what the club's still called? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31820	Mr. President, Madam Director, dear colleagues and colleagues! There are many commendable words here in this report, and I would agree with that because the report was made according to all the rules of the profession but as one desire to do something in the future and I would have to say right away that this report is for 2003, now I don't know if I am informed enough, but it seems to me that the small shifts were seen in 2004, or not small, but so in my opinion, with a modest view. In fact, it is not possible to take the impression that we have established a Competition Agency for quite pragmatic reasons because this is what the conditions and the situation in which we are in, that the European Union dictates to us and that there are absolutely no reasons why we do not want to change anything in this field, or in my opinion we would formally change it and essentially leave the government's influence on the economy, on the market, on the non-break of the monopoly, because that is what the interest wanted us or did not want any government. On the other hand, the big question is how many in this small country of 4.5 million people can even develop the market without the government having an impact on that. Look at that, I'll do a few more data, the state budget is slightly less than 50% of the total GDP. Imagine how strong the country is compared to the entire wealth of Croatia. Or I'll bring up another piece of information I've been talking about before. The citizens of Croatia water and the removal of wages 10% of the total price of telephone impulses in Croatia and we have a situation not only that they are the monopolists of these two telecommunications operators but also the situation that the contract is secret that sold them telecommunications and which the citizens of Croatia have again built. You all remember how we paid from a thousand to 3,000 marks for the phone connection in our time. On the other hand, the question is how many in some activities can we lift the monopoly. Let's talk about electricity. It is very difficult to abolish the monopoly except to restructure the electricity industry in such a way that distribution areas give concessions to certain operators but must never be given infrastructure alone in a concession or owned by any concessionary. Clearly, such a system can be discussed in other services such as water supply, draining. Unfortunately, about telecommunications more because we gave it all up like it was a hell of a fortune, not a national treasure. And I'm afraid, here I wouldn't owe it, but I'm afraid for the work of this agency that the next report will be for 2004 and so on for 2005 and we won't actually have any movement because I'm not sure that there is a political will in Croatia to change certain systems of values that are necessary, which are the necessity for our approach to Europe and to convince our citizens that this must be so. It will not be easy because it will require further increases in certain services, further price increases, and we are not quite willing to speak out loud and publicly. I'd rather spend all my time, talking kind of demagogue, and hiding that real, real reality and the real truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31821	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31822	Mr President of the Croatian Parliament, President-in-Office of the Competition Protection Agency, colleagues and colleagues, the 2003 Competition Protection Agency's report on the work of the 2003 Competition Protection Agency shows that only the Council has been visible for almost 6 months without a person authorised to represent and make decisions. The former director of the Agency, Mr Momčilovic resigned and retired on 30 April 2003, and it was only 15 October that the Croatian Parliament appointed the new council and Ms. Spevec as President of the Council. The new law only amended the internal structure of the agency so that the Institute of Directors and Competition Protection Councils is abolished and we now have a council of 5 members. So this entire period of practically 6 months, the Agency did not have a director or deputy or performer, so the question is, in general, who is responsible for the Agency's work during that period. I don't know why it didn't seem appropriate to appoint a director's office if it was already in the making of a new Competition Protection Act. The new Law also gave the Agency a new competence in relation to the implementation of the State aid Act, and thus increased the scope of the business as previously colleagues and indicated that the Agency itself would need to further team up and increase the number of employees precisely because of its efficiency. Because of this vacuum in representation and representation of the Agency, there was no report on its work for 2002, so we have it here as a technical report for this year's 2003 report. Only the report deals with the Agency's activities in 2003, where we have information on the appointment of the President and members of the Council, and so 150 administrative cases from the basic activities of the Agency such as the assessment of the agreement, the assessment of the abuse of the ruling position and the assessment of the concentration are opened. We can ask ourselves whether more cases would be open or resolved although a large percentage of the cases are resolved here, that the agency has acted normally means with the authorized decision-making person and its representation. This report on the analysis of the Competition Protection Act analyses the effectiveness of the law itself and the possibility of its implementation. Thus, although this Law defines absolute limitations more precisely and introduces longer periods of limitation, the Agency does not have the possibility and the right to impose penalties but also submits requests to the Criminal Court for the initiation of proceedings against entrepreneurs and responsible persons of undertakings, which is often very long and slow procedure and are often obsolete. In the end, I support this report, and I believe that it should continue to work on a stronger role for the Agency in implementing the rights to the competition at its further teaming, which should ultimately contribute to the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31823	Thank you. And a respected representative, Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31824	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President-in-Office of the Competition Protection Council, dear colleagues and fellow representatives. A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2003, the authorities to monitor the shale of the principle of free market or of the business fair play where compliance with the adopted rules needs to be achieved by those best and to enable the realization of the best achievements, is extremely important for the economic life of each country more if it is on its way to an economically highly organised and democratic society such as the European Union. The culture of competition as well as any other cultural policy should be proactive and persistent in raising the level of awareness and awareness of market competence entities, as well as the facilities and games of end-users. Only respect for agreed and adopted rules of play by developed democratic societies that practice the market economy can make Croatian products and services to competitors in European and other markets. We are well aware that this very competitiveness and ability to mate others on the market is well dependent on our so-needed economic development, the foundation of each country's strength and so does the Republic of Croatia. The agency whose report on the work in 2003 is ahead of us the home and institution for this area. In 9 years from 1995, when this activity is started to be regulated in Croatia until 2003, when a new Law on the Protection of Competition is adopted in accordance with the obligations made in the Stabilisation and Association Agreements in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the recommendations of the Avis process of harmonisation with the sophisticated acquis of the European Union shall be permanent. The new line of rights that deals with the protection of competition has only been in place for 7 years, and the judiciary in this area needs constant training of personnel. The Peter-member Board for the Protection of Competition, which is elected by the Assembly for 5 years, is therefore still on board in addition to its professional performance and the almost pioneering role of promoting this activity in the wider frameworks of society. In 2003, during the former government, this is already mentioned, the Agency was therefore without a head for representation and decision-making from April to October. No deputy leader, and even almost amazingly no acting officer. Half a year is a long period, we will agree on respected colleagues and colleagues, in difficult circumstances for an institution of such importance as the Competition Protection Agency, which must be pro-pulsant to contribute to the quality of our economic relations and also to our ability to engage in European Union processes. The realization of 78% in 2003 is a very good result. And my commendation to the Agency, bearing in mind the above circumstances. Further strengthening of the Agency's operational performance and past administrative procedures is the model for all members of the European Union. Here is the exception of Slovenia that itself is considering changing the procedure to resolve doubts about the correctness of the match. And let me get this straight. We of the HDZ Representatives Club therefore accept this Report, aware of the importance of the problem covered by it and will continue to closely monitor the work of the Competition Protection Agency and in the context of our opportunities to further improve the working conditions of this important institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31825	Thank you. The President of the Council, Ms. Olga Spevec, does not have the need to say anything yet. I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2003. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in the field of competition for 2003 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 104 for, 3 abstentions, one against, most of them accepted this year's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31828	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The HDZ Club will support the annual Financial Agency's report for 203, for several reasons. This year, the financial agency is likely to finally find its own place and role in the market environment and in the final internal adaptation of systems conditioned to new business circumstances. The financial agency has definitely shown that it is ready by offering its services and services in the payment system to be a significant factor in financial operations in the country. In business terms, in 2003, it profiled several business objectives that clearly direct further transformation and development flows and strengthen the financial agency. For example. Further formation of the central registration site, the country's central information system. In 2003 it is definitely the year of business profiling, positioning on the market, preserving financial social stability that is certainly a good basis for continuing to implement further system transformation processes. What makes us in HDZ particularly happy is, of course, the financial business of this agency. In view of the transition processes that Finna was going through in 2003 as well as in previous years. And it's been going positively over the last two years. Financial data speaks of what Finn is on the right track and that they are encouraged by good market behaviour by the Fine administration. This certainly raises hope that Finn will grow into one of the financial sector leaders in these areas. And this kind of leader who, according to all of us, would have done business well so far, such as the State Treasury Service, to support registered entities of public importance, bargaining business, sectors and transactions of the national clearing system, which all the inter-bank transactions of smaller amounts could be converted into what is already clearly possible only in the business of Fin. And that's the creation of one big strong national or state bank. Which, if nothing else, would keep her profits abroad in Croatia. Many Western states have similar banks and they are in some way sponsoring state projects, i.e. projects that have national importance. Because such an entire infrastructure as Fina has has neither will there be any bank in the Republic of Croatia. It is 150,000 square meters covering the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. From Umag in the West, to Ilock in the East, Dubrovnik in the South, to the Mursko Centre, in Međimurje, in the North. Such infrastructure is visible and recognised through an information connection guaranteeing the speed and reliability of the execution of the most complicated and sophisticated transactions and requirements put before Finn. It was this fact that it was probably the one that invited the government to find the only possible partner in Finland for an ambitious project one stop shop. And I hope that at today's meeting of the Government, we will finally have in the House proposed amendments and additions to the Financial Agency Act so that the project of the stop shop will have to live in reality. We in Croatia want to make it clear to the democratic community by accepting the Annual Business Report for 2003 that this example shows how it is possible for professional people to do their jobs, then to do it in quality regardless of everything and in all restructurings and changes. Because when we talk about Finna, we're talking about a job well done and done. With the hope of the same success of all future tasks ahead of Finn, and especially this project, one stop shop once again points out that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports this year's business report for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31829	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic SDP's Club of Representatives, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31830	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Director, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will give a positive opinion on the 2003 report. Which affected our decision. Well, it might be enough to read a few data on Fine and Business in 2003, and I believe the day no one will object to this report. Maybe it's a very, very interesting card by Fine herself that says it's a state-owned institution but exclusively formed on a market principle. Note that it operates with Croatian business banks, the National Bank, numerous business systems and business life entities. He's also a partner to the state, especially in the area of public finances. But there is also an inevitable factor in the implementation of two major reforms in the Republic of Croatia. And of course when we talk about that material side of Fine, it's inevitable that a system of 5100 employees all over the country, in 187 localities and with an enormous space in which they operate. But what is most important, continuous systemic investment and technological innovation have provided quality configurations for the establishment of a complete data processing system. And of course what is most valuable besides technology investments is continuous monitoring and adaptation and continuous education necessary and for the process management in the FINE system, but also for all users of its services. Maybe it's just enough so we can estimate how powerful and successful the system is. But we're always modest, so I'd say about my successes we don't like to talk about, is what's also important to say, this system has been created in just two years. And the shutting down of the Department of Payments that the shut-down meant one common tax principle where you provided payment fees for the entire system regardless of whether it was people, spaces or technology you had to cross in a completely different way and in two years these people tried to show that it was possible in Croatia. They're basically also a guideline to those who maybe haven't transformed themselves in the last five years. It's enough to mention the Pension Insurance Service, they haven't been transformed. This system in just two years. These are also the results we need to talk about. They were achieved by workers in Croatia, achieved by those who belonged to them, we can say, until yesterday they belonged to the system of those who were touched on some kind of tax, on some kind of regular income, were not thinking marketically. Now it's something completely different. But what is also very important gave bo away significant reforms in the Republic of Croatia. Do you waste time on performance results that are positive? So I don't think that, other than perhaps pointing out that indeed profiting from 110 million in market terms after, I would say the first serious year of business 100 million kunas invested in the development and future of that system. Only 24% of the revenues that are due to State relations and remain with business entities and, of course, worth 50% of the profits invested in the state budget or returned to the state budget, while the other 50% remains what is left for the stake, which is for funds that guarantee the security of such a system. It may be necessary to keep more on exactly these reforms that would not be possible without the FINA system. It's a payment traffic reform that's been delayed for 10 years. Political conflicts have shown that the division of those who trust the banking system, those who feel that they should not trust the banking system, that the banking system will not be able to manage payment traffic, that simply the former ZAP system that meant certain security and speed in the transfer of money between business entities should not be abandoned. In a short period, they showed that they could still be with the business banks, that they could help the business banks to run the system and that major changes had not arisen, that there were no major disturbances. It is obvious, then, that a number of times politics is more afraid than professions and that we know how to take political debates where they should not have them. And of course always, I would say a insufficiently prominent pension reform which has also been delayed for a time, and it is also a pension problem, and it is also a problem for our commitments to pensioners because we did not get into these changes in time, and it is evident that when they are professionally addressed by people rather than politicians that the results are inevitable at the moment. And of course, if we didn't have a FINA system that gave its support, we wouldn't have just been able to successfully pass either reform. I do not want to talk about the former coalition government that implemented these reforms and was with these professionals, because in this House, apart from the ugly words about the former coalition government, sometimes some of the ministers are, however, among them the current, present-day Minister Shuker, who knows the prominent, I would say those positive foreign coalition governments in this parliamentary representative. We'd better not open the topic 'cause we're going to politicize again. But there's something else that's valuable that Finna created. Croatia's biggest problem is information and data processing. And certainly the contribution of professional people to creating commercial registers where the database can be reached not only by state and state budget users but by any business subject is something that is very important. They've managed to secure four of them by now. Insurance register, register of annual financial reports, register of digital certificates and register of accounts of business entities. If you've followed the report, you can see they've prepared three more registers. Unfortunately, they are hard to break because there are always resistances on the part of certain state bodies that are making registers, and I would say opportunities for everyone to reach these registers are something that is not very good because at that moment there is a danger that part of the officials and part of the public service will lose their influence and their function. And apparently, this kind of approach to registering is something we need to accept and support. And I hope that the new turn of Croatia's hope towards FINI with the project "One Stop Shop" will show how effective it will be" and in, I would say, the establishment, use and promotion of these registers has shown how effective it is in the past 2003 and 2004. And, of course, the growing numbering of those 24% of its business in total with the country where FINA is the provider of services and services for the bodies of the state administration for statistical research and is increasingly necessary in that technical performance of statistical research, but the apparent and executively organised work with cash shows that FINA is a system that can also be dealt with by a number of other businesses. And that's why I believe that the former fear of a few years ago and where it will end up with 5 thousand 100 people crossing payment traffic into banks, today is no longer a question, but it is evident that 5 thousand 100 people will be few. Therefore, in this report, perhaps the best estimate that FINA is a well-organised, efficient organisation which, by the quality of its products and services, is a reliable partner and commercial but also public sector, is the best definition of this report in 2003. But let me express on behalf of the SDP and one dissatisfaction. In 2003, a business like this in 2003, and what did we do last year? Changed the FINA Act so the Croatian government could change management, so that it could change administration. It is evident that these results are the result of every man's work, each of those five thousand and 100. But it is also evident that the management of such systems, the transformation of such systems, and in particular the positioning of such systems where they go from safe income to 100% commercial revenues, means the success of administration, the knowledge of people and the ability of people. I am sorry that on behalf of the SDP, I cannot accept the fact that we have given this Parliament the majority of support for changes to make successful people change and the question remains whether Croatian practice is that such positive results, such great successes, instead of promoting people, serve us, that we are giving her a shift award.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31831	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31832	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations at the end of what Mr Linic said, whether we are giving such changes and shifts to someone who is not capable, or competent to run such a financial agency, or FINA, because it is a purely political process. Well, in this House, if you look at it that way, it's primarily incorrect, because the man who led the FINA is competent and capable of it, but the coalition government has changed not only the law but has changed the constitution to replace the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31833	Thank you. He has a word on behalf of the HSS club, respected representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow agents, gentlemen of the government, from the Agency. This report and at the HSS Club are considered acceptable and I will not repeat everything that has already been said, that it is a system that employs 5100 people, that it is the spatial and staff-skilled agency that can be very qualified to carry out the tasks that are entrusted to it. The reform of payment traffic ended in the beginning as we know in 2002. With the reform, we got a reorganized, modern and financial agency. It was completed in a way and a 10-year transitional period during which the former Transport Institute tried to find its place and role in new circumstances. The reform has been driven ambitiously with the aim of costing account-keeping services for legal and natural persons, but the business banks have not in any way met expectations, and thus the Financial Agency takes the right lead and role in the sector. The Tempo FINA, which has been transformed into a modern and dynamic innovative market-oriented organisation, and of course, it is very few who can follow in this way as it follows that agency. It's not unexpected, of course, because FINA, as I said, was technically and humanly the best teamed. The basic transformation and internal transformation have built FINA in an important business factor on the financial market. FINA has invested very systematically in technological innovation and personnel over the past few years. This business strategy has succeeded from creating an inevitable partner of business banks, Croatian National Banks, state and numerous other organisations and reforms and business entities and citizens above all. Financial indicators, as the report said, are positive with a very high growth index compared to the plan and 2002. By reading this report, I was personally a little distracted by the fact that there is too much foreign use in it, especially in English, so instead of "out sourcing" in me it would be nicer and preferable to speak Croatian, that it is an automatic search and why we use aliens where we can clearly use Croatian language. There are plans in these new government plans, as we hear in the FINA or in another agency, to open a window for the quick resolution of business licenses, and a counter would be called "one stop shop". Again, I think it would be necessary to find a Croatian term for which, of course, none of us would mind if we really speed up the process and solve bureaucratic gaps that hold fast and effective action. I'm still afraid that this counter could turn into a counter whose name could be an illusion within 24 hours. First of all, on behalf of the HSS, I recommend following the policy of the former Minister of craft and the small and medium entrepreneurship of Mr. Zeljko Pecek, who has made a real revolution in the field of entrepreneurship, of course believing that these experiences and similar experiences will also be taken into account. However, I want this new counter, this new office, a successful job because I think that the gaps over the entrepreneurial activities that are completely polluted in bureaucracy need to be resolved in a more efficient and fast way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31835	In the last second, so can we at least five seconds before we lift the plate, not that I like... Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31836	I am correcting two incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Roic. First of all, he said FINA was investing in equipment and personnel. That's not true. ZAP was still investing in equipment and personnel, and it all actually came out of ZAP, and we should not forget it no matter how much someone liked it or not, it all started at a time before 2000 when a team of people, young people who were also changed when the coalition power came in 2000, changed. So that equipment and frames started to be restored. And secondly, this illusion 24 hours about the van stop shop project. So I think it's incorrect, in any case, because all those who expect to finally start something, that in three places, which in this case is FINA, the Trade Court and the public notary can solve something that must now be solved in 20 places, I think in such a way that at least not only is it incorrect but it's not even correct to praise what is not true, and it's a revolution during Minister Pecek's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31837	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the club HNS PGS esteemed representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31838	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a report on the value of the business of a financial service institution which has started a transformation from a passive position of the guaranteed business of the State Payment Office to a successful market-based financial company since 2002. Transport of the internal organisation acted on a successful business transformation and adaptation to new market conditions of business. Unfortunately, in 2004, it is not marked by such quality and optimistic changes and more suggests a certain stalemate in organisational efforts. The 10-year transitional period has reformed and introduced new relations on the financial market, which the FINAs were an incentive for the development of a modern and dynamic market-oriented financial company. Of course, such optimism was not present at the beginning of 2002 when the Financial Agency Act was passed and when it began to deal with all inherited employees with material and business uncertainty. But certainly the highest quality in the transformation of this company was evident in the offer of its own new products and services, which required the preceding internal reorganisation. Strong and consistent investment in technological innovation and personnel, the redesign of the information system offered Croatian economy high quality solutions. This business strategy affirmed FINA in a respectable business partner of banks, Croatian National Bank and state in numerous projects as well as other business entities, as well as citizens. Cooperation with banks is particularly evident in the provision of services and resources, the establishment of retail networks for the market, financial services, interbank accounting systems, "outsourcing" technologies, IT infrastructures, etc. FINA in 60% of its income comes from a very successful business with banks. I think your license plate says 56% for 2003. Recognized as the responsible financial company FINA quickly took over the complete processing of cash and non-cash transactions through a contract with banks, it began to provide banks and clients with a service on current and archive payment data, as well as archiving and optical data processing services. Innovations have been introduced with electronic payment services as well as the provision of services via the Internet and similar technologies. FINA with 187 existing businesses, with 5 000 100 employees, with 500 thousand daily transactions within the national clearing system, modern monitoring of the vehicle in the transport of cash makes a modern, well-organised and efficient organisation that is on the financial market a reliable partner in the commercial and public sector. In addition to a unique example that a financial company is doing "outsourcing" jobs for the state, it would especially praise the start of the implementation of the FINA concept "shop in shop" where in collaboration with banks, it began to provide services of various financial services all in one place. And finally, another favor. The possibility of quality information support to the State Treasury as well as tax administration offices. And while we support the comments in the report concerning the unfair treatment of FINA and banks with regard to the calculation of VAT for the provision of the same services on the financial market, but we believe that the report does not place a warning to the public sector that the FINA product also has a price to pay because on page 21 of the financial accounts, the profit was still EUR 138 million in 2003. That is, the index between the planned and achieved was no less than 941. So, we at the HNS Club, the PGS, support this report in the hope that even future reports, regardless of a certain stagnation that monitors business in 2004, will print fresh ideas, optimism and business success.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31839	Correction of an incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31840	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the lady who said she hoped that in the coming years there would also be reports of FINA, regardless of a certain stagnation from 2004. That's incorrect because she doesn't know what they were like in 2004, she can only assume them. I have different data from you where you can see that this business has been even better than 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31841	Thank you. We've finished discussing clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate for 10 minutes. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Next is the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31842	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. FINA is a very specific financial institution that is an indispensable partner for business banks, the Croatian National Bank, the state in numerous projects and reforms, and business entities and citizens. FINA as the successor of the Institute of Payments since 2002, according to the Financial Agency Act, continues its business in a market environment without a monopoly position in payment operations. The fact is that FINA still plays a dominant role in this area thanks to territorial distribution, information equipment, system connection, and personnel teaming. However, FINA is now performing these operations as a bank repairer on the market basis on behalf of and on behalf of banks. It is also a fact that business banks gradually take over payment transactions for their clients, that they intensively introduce Internet payment banking and other Internet services, and that in the structure of bank revenues from these transactions there will certainly be a significant reduction in revenue. The market business adjustment imposed the development and supply of new products by the FINA, as well as the change and development of the internal organisation. To the extent that this was successful, it was not transparently shown in the attached Business Report 2003. In particular, given the fact that FINA is state-owned, it is important to see how it is managed in the market environment, especially at the beginning of business on market principles, given 5 000 100 employees. The total income of FINA for 2003 also includes income from one-off transactions and revenue from earlier years, revenue from the list of agriculture of 51.6 million kuna and revenues from REGOS that were invoiced in 2003 for operations carried out in 2002 amounting to 43.8 million kuna. So a total of 95.4 million kuna or 9% of total income that are not the result of regular business but would say, exceptional benefits and they will no longer appear in the coming years. If the above is considered, it is not difficult to calculate that the total revenues from the clean, I would say, market activities amount to a thousand 30 million kuna, i.e. they increased by 16%, not 26% as presented in the materials. What is also objective, which is important for objective market observation, I speak market business, so FINA's finding in the market business position is also expenditure. Requests from 2003 amounting to €12.3 million, relating to a claim for deficits in the vault, to sad cashier deficits, to deposits in Vukovar Bank, claims for services from previous years which do not seem to be charged to demand the adjustment of the value of the assets, liabilities of capital and should have been shown as operating costs for 2003, as confirmed in some segments by the State Audit in its 2003 Report. Also, the amount of HRK 14.3 million according to the Decision on the Executive of the Ministry of Finance for less paid taxes and contributions, for housing loans to workers at a lower interest rate than the legal provisions, are not recorded on the burden of operating costs for 2003. Therefore, the total expenditures were to be increased by €26.7 million, i.e. total expenditures were to be estimated at €14.8 million in 2003, not €988 as shown in the Report. This transparently displayed revenue would now amount to thousands and 30 million kunas, total expenditures of a thousand 14 million kunas, and gross profits of 16 million kunas achieved. These are still good results, but not as excellent as the report shows. I think FINA has the potential to become a strong participant in the market for financial services, new ideas and quality information to the state, banks and other business entities. I also support the organisational transformation from inefficient territorial centres to a single corporate unit that will permanently be able to affirm business objectives and allow for longer positioning of the Agency on the domestic and foreign markets. Therefore, it is not the inefficient territorial centres but functionally connected and coordinated sectors in which quality ideas, initiatives will go from top to bottom, and at the same time convey quality information from above, therefore, from centre to bottom. I also believe that formerly accompanying services such as communication, marketing, sales networks, human potentials, procurement should have crucial importance for further development of the agency. This revised financial report would be far more realistic and acceptable and would be the basis for the conclusions and decisions of the FINA business for the future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31843	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Davorko Vidovic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Mato Church, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31844	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the FINA. In my opinion, this report is good, it shows good work to FINA, and I advocate that it is accepted without any reserves. Even more so, I think that some things should be publicly added and that actually the work of FINA is not publicly known enough, recognized or affirmed, because it can continue to develop. The first thing I would say is, it is obvious that in one complex period where there was great uncertainty that it would survive and survive at all as an institution in which all reforms started to be market in payment, etc. actually continued very successful or even more successful than before. And so we see clearly here that this is one system that is respectable European, which has 187 businesses, covers the entire state, 5 thousand employees of 22 branches, 4 regional centres, employees have an average salary in 2003. 6 thousand 244 kuna, which is a very good result. These results also show a 26% growth in total income in 2003. But also the growth in operating profits and profits that would amount to 140 million, of which is when you take both the profit tax and what the state has actually received 85 million, which has a feeling for the figures, knows that it's a big money that's the result of FINA's work that ended up in the country. Secondly, of course FINA was very successful and almost also a bearer of large-scale reforms in the financial system. From the pension insurance that has become, with reform we cannot solve all the problems or problems of today's pensioners, but we can be those who will be in the future pensioners who have become respectable and valued as the world's almost most successful in Eastern Europe. It was a complex payment change operation that moved on to banks as well as anywhere in the world, with FINA playing a very important role and, in fact, today, all of this is working thanks to FINA. There are, of course, major changes that took place in labour legislation and related to a number of questions about wages and others, where FINA has also submitted all of this. State revenues and so on. She was involved in the process of solving the individence problem, which we know the extent to which it was. It contributes today to the important security of all participants in payment and economy. FINA is today a European institution that operates as a European institution. What's a little in Croatia. Moreover, it has simultaneously transformed itself, and FINA is today simply a successful market company. Business and relations with banks have been developed. In the cash business, there's no substitute for what fina's doing. She's a very successful service of the state. She invested a lot in both earlier and technological innovations and personnel in 2003. FINA is equipped with personnel who are ready for very sophisticated solutions and are the best quality of this branch in the country, etc. So in the meantime, it itself became a market and commercial company. Of course, especially important cash centres, so the registers that have been established, for example the register of financial reports provides great opportunities and is very important for the safety of all those involved in payment traffic. This is, of course, the role of the stop shop today, etc. So in terms of everything that happens by 2003 and 2003, and I believe that further in the FINA, I think that in this House, we need to say and confirm these positive assessments, with the addition of those that I point out. However, it is possible, I think they have places and the next two notes I want to make. My colleague, Plesa, rightly on behalf of the HDZ Club, said, when professionals work, they do not lack results. That's right. But look, FINA achieved these results at least in 2003 with people who were in the second year of the mandate, who came in 2000 when others, when the previous people ended their mandate, and who took over all these reforms. So, this most successful one in 2003 has so far been expressed by people who were in the middle of their mandate and who I really don't think should have changed then. Look, I'll tell you something else, pal, because you said something about the President of the Court. Previously, authorities have also been unjustly acting in my court in certain cases to replace or replace people. Not all those people who changed positions should have changed from previous authorities and governments. But having done stupid things before is not an excuse to keep doing things like that. And it's actually a state interest, and I hope it doesn't happen any further, so that's just why I'm saying it. Because look, these people in FINA are professional people, they got the best result that FINA ever had and did all these reforms. Then there were, let me, two members of the administration and the chairman of the administration and four directors, six or seven who were all elected from the structure of the people who grew up in the FINA. These 7 people grew up in FINA and, of course, when the second term expired, they forced themselves as a quality to be bearers of the development of FINA further. And that's normal, they weren't people from outside, etc. And now that they were the most successful, when the reforms were under way, when they were in the middle of a term they were smiling and brought most of the people from outside to FINA. And now there are instead of those 6, 7 in those leading places about 17 or 15 I have no idea, it doesn't matter I don't speak specifically against people, these people are even better, etc., but I'm talking against a system where people often in this case were an eclectic example, changing absolutely unnecessary. When they're the most successful, when they're in half their term, so who needs it. So if someone's done it in the past, let's not do it in the future anymore, I'm just saying this right now. And the second thing I would like to say is, that is, FINA has also been able to support the authorities of the state administration in a unique way and informically and in other ways. It can simply be a very successful match for the needs of the state, which is often not the case in some countries. We through the FINA today are able to have financial flows analysis that are the blood flow of the economy, so other countries can't have. Because the banks individually and others have no overview of the national financial flows that FINA has today, etc. I think that FINA today has been trained to provide unique support to the authorities of the state administration for information, software, analytical and that it should not be necessary to set up any other agencies or institutions that would take that part of the job from it and are just being introduced into doing some jobs for the state because FINA is today being run by a European one. So, in this respect, I express my belief that FINA represents a potential that has not yet been used enough. There are various new possibilities for FINA's activity and I hope that we will see it in the report for the past year and what is now being done in FINA and that it is FINA that can make a significant contribution in all the processes that are gradually leading us towards the European Union because it works in a European way already today and therefore do not make it possible for anyone to bring forward those professional people who lead a successful institution on any basis to change especially when they are successful and in half the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31845	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31846	So I'm correcting Mr. Church's allegations that this reform and adjustment, or transition from the Department of Payments to the financial agency, has been expressed by people who were in the middle of the mandate, professional people, etc. It is true, I also said that when professional people do their jobs that there are no problems in such transition jobs as ZAP or FINA, but it is not exactly yours to deal with people who were in the middle of the mandate. They were in the middle of a mandate maybe just like the people who run that organization but these were the people who were both at the Department of Payments and before 2000, who were working, who came out of it where the vast majority of these jobs that you were so talking about that only during the coalition government lived within that system they had worked before. These things may have been called different but they've done them before. And I also hope that no one will ever change people who do quality and professional work again. In addition, we now have the Law on the transfer of power where the good work is regulated, but you forgot by the arrival of the coalition authority you also replaced a very successful director of the then ZAP who could do the same as the one you set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31847	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31848	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of FINA, respected colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament! Today we are discussing the Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2003. We are all aware that FINA is the successor of the Department of Payments or even earlier Social Accounting and that as a Financial Agency, it has been acting since the beginning of 2002 when the Financial Agency Act was passed which continues its way into a market environment to shape its business policy but this time without a mono-political position. I believe that FINA with its 187 locations in the Republic of Croatia has made it perfectly possible for its customers through its branches, offices, facilities, easy access and fast access throughout Croatia. The continuous monitoring and adjustment of the level of safety with the education of users speaks about good information infrastructure. Every transition from a monopolitical position to a market position is difficult and every such company during the night from one great security is placed in the position of the battle for survival. Thanks to FINA's systematic investment in technological innovations and personnel, which are of great importance for the Croatian economy, its transition to market business has been much easier than some other similar companies. If we add that FINA employs around 5 thousand 100 people today, it is evident that in the transformation process FINA managed to maintain full employment and took care of its employees, which was not easy and where we should give them recognition. In this 2003 report, total revenue of one billion and 126 million and total expenditures of 988 million, which means that in 2003 the profit amounted to EUR 138 million, showing that FINA achieved very good financial results in 2003, which makes it possible to be satisfied. However, we can see in the shown performance one for me a great illogicality where depreciation was shown by as much as 71% more than last year, which significantly affected the profit achieved. And if we know that, under the Financial Agency Act, 50% of these profits go to the state budget then it is clear that this high-profile depreciation has significantly reduced FINA's profits by 2003 and thus directly reduced the funds of the Republic of Croatia's budget. FINA has been greatly involved in bank sector affairs, especially in cash and non-cash transactions, but has improved electronic payment services covering the Internet payment support system. The projects of national importance are mainly in the domain of public finances an important feature of the FINA’s business which is reflected mainly through the FINA and the Government of the Republic of Croatia’s public finances on the information of the state administration body. The contract defines the role of FINA as a strategic service provider to support its resources in projects of national level in various areas of public finances, health, education, justice to local administrations and self-government. It confirmed its good organisation and equipment by providing technological and personnel support, monitoring the registrar's insurance company, etc. Regosa, which worked very well in 2003. Finally, we can conclude that FINA as a leading service institution in the financial sector has become an inevitable factor not only in financial but also in the country's overall economic life. We should therefore support this report and wish that such good results are achieved in the next period of which we do not doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31849	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31850	Mr. Vice President, I would like to replicate this part of my colleague's exposure that says that increased depreciation has affected the reduction of funds that were to go to the state budget. The question here is, what kind of development policy is being run by a state-owned institution and whether their policy is such that part of the funds is being paid into the state budget or that it is such that it develops and that it uses all legal opportunities for " cheaper development". In fact, accelerated depreciation allows it. Since it is an institution that, in the most part of its underlying assets, probably has information equipment in its financial sense, we know how important it is to renovate such equipment in time and how important it is to speed up depreciation, and I think it is a smart policy when it is run rather than a policy that will maintain a low level of development and at the expense of that, or for the benefit of that, to be paid into the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31851	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's also important to Ms. Zgrebec's esteemed representative that this is certainly exactly what she said could be used in, and in the developmental part if we have increased depreciation. But one is a fact, and it was also part of the practice that we were first when certain companies meant we went into evaluations then we put as low value objects, assets and everything else. I'm not going to go into the details of which, where the reasons, which are certainly different. And then, behind that, we come into a position to go with new estimates and yet, for years I was head of accounting, so I can say, very extreme separation means as much as 70% increase in depreciation compared to the previous year, which certainly allowed me to show less profits and thus certainly the budget of the Republic of Croatia got less funds and thus was damaged, and I myself worked for 5 and a half years in the FINA, the previous ZAP, and I have enough knowledge as they had been equipped before. I don't think that's all spent on equipment. But here's what I'm saying. We can look at every piece of data from two sides. I believe that the budget of the Republic of Croatia should have received more funding and could have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31853	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31854	Dear Vice President, a fellow MP said that the former management was leading, working on one, a stable job. According to the former administration's business plan in 2004, however, the business plan they adopted in 2003 was aimed at firing 1,500 people in 2004. Given the potentials that FINA has, which means that thanks to territorial distribution, information equipment, connectivity, staff teaming, the FINA strategy is questionable. Personally, I believe that all companies, all companies that operate with profits should, therefore, not reduce the number of jobs but should focus that profit on developing new products, new services and the possible extra employees on these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31855	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31856	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will try very briefly to use this report so that I can present several dilemmas or suggestions without intending to define the future status of FINA in a market society because many more spears will be broken around it. Mostly professional, and hopefully less political. First of all, it is necessary to conclude the fact, and we have already heard in the debates that there was controversy over that today's FINA is, in part, rudimentary, my free interpretation, the rudimentary rest of the socialist planning industry. She had at that time her monopoly position and that monopoly position, of course, defined its organisational and professional structure, but its equipment and network that she had at that time and all the advantages but also the disadvantages of the monopoly position in society. I personally support these data in the report itself, and I express even in some way regret that they are not two feet and something greater than they are shown here. That's the amount of salary costs and other employee costs that seemed to me to be about 6% and depreciation that was somewhere around 71% more than it was in the previous period. Why? It is precisely from the number of employees who have been there, and it is because of the fact that the stimulating severances have taken place in that structure exactly the initial rate that has reached this index and the other part that I advocate the ever-increasing rate of depreciation in order to precisely equip and efficiency in the future because of its improved position in society and in the situation in which it is present and in future time. About the organization itself we see that today there are about 5100 employees, that it is organized according to the old one, and I say by quotes to a good system, we called it the "ROS" system, Rijeka, Osijek, Split and everything that comes out of it. 187 business units and my humble opinion, although we as advocates do not need to enter the internal structure and problems that already have our assessment of the general role of FINA, it seems to me that in an organisational and functional sense this organisational structure, which is mostly inherited, should be changed. It is precisely in order to delegate jobs, control and efficiency of this system and the organisation to be achieved. Then from this structure they also come from, my finding, that the number of employees we have today from 5100 within the structures of FINA technical equipment allows or provides 2 possible solutions. The first finding is possible that we have, I've heard one expression, so I like it, they say, "We have some extra employees, but the question is, what are we going to do with the workers?" I'm not asking what to do with the workers, I'm asking what to do with the unemployed? And the fact that in these 5100 employees and such a technically equipped system either needs to be corrected in this part or I advocate that other solution to base this report and in particular in 2004, we go into that second process, and it means hiring and defining that system within the country. Let us not forget that 100% of the state owns it or that the state will be the one to define its role in society. And just explaining this or setting these dilemmas to myself I try to clarify in which direction to go and a few areas that would be given in the future, are now covered here and will be in this time, but also more efficient to regulate in future time. Mostly in the various registers run by this society, it seems to me right now that something should be accelerated, regardless of the problem of pension reform, to speed up the use of the base and the management and use of the base run by Regos at the moment, there are certain weaknesses and certain problems, I think it can be resolved, but of course also depending on the system of pension reform that will require such a change. It is certain that FINA is one great potential in running tomorrow's Treasury and that it can certainly serve us at this very moment precisely from these potentials can serve as an extremely significant base and facilitate the work of introducing this sector. The same question arises as to how many states alone can because SDK and ZAP have developed in the system that I had previously presented. Even in some ways in countries, but beyond the state, in terms of organisation and subordination of state functions from state to territorial units, several doubts can be put in place and actually say that better efficiency can be achieved in this context. Here's just two examples. One example is part of the management of statistical data and the necessary processing that the State must also use through the FINA at the moment. I'm finding the fact that there's still a State Statistics Service, and that through the state statistical offices to local units there's an organisational system that I now publicly say is ineffective or we don't use enough. That's a fact. On the other hand, especially in the case of annual reports, financial reports also raise doubts and we will have to resolve and resolve this more effectively, the doubt that local self-government units are therefore not state administrations or state administrations, but local self-government units that they need and must collect certain consolidated data, e.g. Countys must collect certain consolidated data for lower units of local self-government cities and municipalities. Which will need to be resolved either legally or otherwise. Because it now falls in some way in good faith, that is, the rules of procedure are being settled, but I think it can be achieved and it needs to be done here more effectively. Then there is also a question of status in the use of this data and eventually, if you want to do so. I present another example, therefore, of service prices, another example in which today's courts and, unfortunately, trade courts use both registers and many other data from Fine and without compensation, Therefore, this area seems to me to be fine-tuning, using this opportunity or other, so more effectively solving is legal in another way. Also, Finna keeps a register of company accounts, so I'm going to define the companies and users of that register, and part of it is being run by and the banks can figure out today that there's going to be a mess, but let's say there are certain problems. And in using that database that the CNB also uses from that triangle. So I see space here too to improve that system. And there's still a lot I should do but I point out at the end for the sake of time, that and the data that would be given more effectively seems to me in a vision when it's being discussed that the state has been able to track in the future if the databases, for example. The citizens' databases we do not have solved practically today, here we see the data, i.e. beginning to follow primary health care in HZO and so on. But I think that fuller and more efficient in the area of a particular region right through Finland in the future can combine the processing of these data so that we do not today be dissipated to all state offices and thus achieve effective cooperation. And now, at the end of the government's decision that through the Fine system, I keep those stop shops absolutely smart and that through a change of law if of course time lets use this as a cause we try to solve certain dilemmas further. That's why I wanted to comment today, that and through that legal solution then we try to answer these many questions that have been asked. And I'm using it in the end, and I'm sorry that there's not one word from the Church fellows, and it's not a replica I wasn't going to comment on about humanizing. But his secretary seems to me her name was Goranka Bulj was the staff member of the Croatian state number one. And I cite only two examples, even I believe that he did not know of many of the troubles that the director, director of what was the name of the tax administration, was one of the youngest and most professional people and was not a member of the HDZ. After that, a man from Pag was appointed, who was initiated by police at the time before he was appointed for criminal processing and criminal charges and proved later to be involved, participated in privatisation, seems to me to be Pag Plastic. And also that a man without any reason would not point out the name of course, the defender seemed to be a senior inspector and placed in the seat of a 25-year-old intern, a 5-year defender of 9 months in a prison in Knin. Is that the frame? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31857	Thank you. We've exhausted an individual discussion with this. On behalf of the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Fine and Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't want to take part in the opening part of the debate because this was the report while my colleague Kushtrak was chairman of the Supervisory Board I think it would be correct to consume that part. BUT allow me just a few clarifications, in the end for the simple reason we are now discussing the 2003 report and is already in the end of 2004. I can say that at Finna, it may be fortunate that all Croatian governments from there in 93rd year when the law on tax on profit tax monitoring and control of companies was moved so to say from the SDK to the Tax Administration, they made a certain step. So today, this government will decide to amend the Fine Act so that a stop shop project can be implemented. And I think that's the most valuable thing that's happened in recent years as far as Fine is concerned. It is also not good to give certain political notes that were heard here today because I could also as the new chairman of the Supervisory Board contribute to the decision of the former Supervisory Board what to do with the tax on, with profits. Then we'd see if it wasn't a very transparent decision. BUT I don’t think certain things should be kept coming back. I say it is better that this report contains what MP Linic said and what was well done. But since Mrs. Zgrebec raised the question of winning, there was a decision that was at least questionable. Because the decision to obtain the fine payment of the state's commitment to the fine beyond the Croatian Parliament is not in line with the positive legal regulations. Also, as regards technical equipment, you should see the contract of the Croatian state with Fina, so you will see that the state budget is also funded and how the technical equipment of Finna. So on the basis of this contract and the contract signed on the payment of certain services, Fina also purchases equipment for the State, i.e. For a project held by the Treasury. But I say good luck, so all governments took one step. We have something that is specific in Europe today because no one in Europe has such a payment system as Croatia did. And it's a good thing that at the moment when business banks can look at our discussions and at the moment when the Law on Payments has changed. It is good that at that point, Finna compensated for the lack of business banks that were unable to take over and submit the new Law on Payments. But we also can't stay on this project. We should watch that nice thing develop tomorrow. How to separate the part that works for the state from the part that has a market future because unfortunately in Croatia we are still not aware how expensive it is to deal with "cheese" and that is exactly one of the activities that Finna is developing. Because today in the world it's the most expensive business with cash, and the most expensive is to deal with cash, starting from its transport to protection, and so on. It's also a disputed one lease contract, which Finn had, and it wasn't put into the report for the reason I'm saying, there's no need to move some things. And that's that one business bank is peripheral to the other business banks. Its practical days are tents in the Fine areas compared to all business banks without public competition. NO. I say all happiness is given all the legal changes that they had to make, so we had a system that we could rely on today as an institution that handles payment traffic can rely on an institution that is both technically and humanly well equipped and that can handle it. And also this government was able to rely on one such institution that had experience in such a business. And finally, this project, I sincerely hope, will have an amendment to the Fine Act at the Assembly session next week. Which will allow Finn to do these jobs that are needed for those stop shop. So I thank all the representatives and clubs for supporting this report. I hope that such support will also be for the 2004 report because we have taken one step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31859	I would like to thank Mr Zgrebec for correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31860	Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption that I even raised the question of getting and distributions in Finland. This is incorrect, I have replicated a colleague who spoke about a high rate, i.e. a high depreciation index which was applied, i.e. the depreciation rate applied in 2003. Noting that speedy depreciation can be calculated under the law. In particular, for such purposes or for such fixed assets which are dominantly used fines. So, I didn't mention profit at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31861	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31862	Annual report on the financial agency's operations in 2003. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the operations of the Financial Agency is hereby adopted in 2003. Please, let's get on with it. Mol vote. Score. 106 votes for, unanimously accepted annual report on the financial agency's operations in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31863	We're moving to agenda nine. - Annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency (HAMAG) for 2003 in accordance with Article 15. The Small Economy Incentives Act, the Croatian Small Economy Agency submitted that report. You received the materials by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal Here you go. [[Intruder: So I can just say a few words.]] Zoran Barisic, president of the HABOR administration. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31864	Zoran Barisic, president of the administration, is. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Small Economy Agency was founded as a special legal person to encourage the development of a small economy based on the law to encourage the development of a small economy, the "National Journal" 29/02. The Agency’s activities under Article 13 of the Law include the promotion and establishment of small-scale operators, the promotion of investment, financing and the granting of guarantees, the approval of grants for various forms of incentives, and the monitoring, analysis and other professional activities, including cooperation with other domestic and foreign institutions in the field of entrepreneurship promotion. Continuing the work of the Croatian Guarantee Agency, the bulk of the activities to HAMAG since 2003 concerned the area of guarantees, i.e. the resolution of all backlogs according to approved guarantees and aid which could not be performed operationally during the period of reconstruction and re-registration. This part of the business has been successfully completed except for the part for which specific legal interpretations are still to be requested. The use of the guarantee is an advantage for entrepreneurs who do not have sufficient own resources, insurance for the requested loan, and in addition, over the past years guarantees have significantly contributed to the reduction of interest on loans, and by their impact on the reduction of the risk to business banks. The beneficiary of the guarantee, the entrepreneur or one who wished to become so could also achieve additional benefits in the form of grants to cover the costs of the loan under the guarantee scheme for beginners and for areas of particular national interest. The Croatian Small Economy Agency as the legal successor of the Croatian Guarantee Agency has assumed all rights and obligations arising from the entire business. Speaking of the past 10 years from the start of the operational work of the Croatian Guarantee Agency until 31 December 2003, more than 4000 guarantee applications and or grant financial support were received for loans totalling more than eighteen, 811 million kuna. The planned amount of investments requested by the guarantee was over a billion and 400 million kuna, 58% of which were financed from the loan and the company's own funds accounted for 42% in the financing structure. A total of 3 thousand 314 guarantees for loans amounting to more than 6 hundred million kuna were granted, and a total of 3 thousand 121 aid amounting to 20 million kuna. The government of the Republic of Croatia has set a limit of 500 million kuna guarantee potential as the maximum obligation under the approved guarantees. The obligation of the Agency for Approved Guarantees on 31 December 2003 was EUR 220 million. The total commitment has been reduced from the total amount of guarantees granted by a thousand 138 duly paid loans of cca. 130 million kuna, and for the refunded part by loans, whose payment is under way according to the payment plans of the users. During 2003, only 27 requests were received, of which only five guarantee applications and 22 applications were only for support. A small number of requests arrived for the reason that banks delayed guarantee requests when granting the loan, expecting the first solution to the backlogs due to the Agency's reshuffle. During the reconstruction period during 2002, the Agency's decision was legally disabled, which is the main cause of the backlogs. As soon as it started operating from the previous period and from the reporting period, 94 requirements of which 9 guarantees for loans amounting to two million, totalling two million kuna 400 thousand and 85 aid was granted to cca 480.000 kuna. But unfortunately, there was also activation. With regard to the activation of guarantees during 2003, 15 applications and an approved amount of cca 2 million and 600 thousand kuna were resolved positively. And two million 260,000 kunas were paid. It has been refused to pay the guarantee for three loans of a total million 530 thousand kuna cca. At that time, there were five more applications for activation for businessmen in 2003. Due to objective circumstances, HAMAG has more seriously started implementing the law and the statute of the activities in question only in September 2003 when the basis of the invitation to tender has been appointed members of the administration. Despite accommodation in the unsuitable rented rooms of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and the basis of 18 employees employed in guarantee operations during the last quarter of 2003, the Management Board adopted a work programme, a medium-term work plan, a rules on salaries and other sublegal acts needed by HAMAG. The adoption of those acts has provided for the normal operation of HAMAG, subject to the provision of the necessary financial resources. The registration in the court register on 21 January 2003 could resume the work after six months of full termination of business resulting from the provisions of the Small Economy Incentive Act, which prescribed that HGA ceases and HAMAG is established as a legal successor. So there's been an interregnum of six months. As a result of the non-business period, a number of guarantee applications and also a number of requests for activation of a guarantee that could not be solved have been collected. During 2003, the backlogs were compensated and all regulated and complete requirements were processed and guarantees and related support were granted. However, the bank's trust in the agency's guarantees has been lifted, and there has been a drastic decline in the guarantee requirements. Only 330 requests for guarantees and support were received in 2002, mainly during the first 6 months of active work. In 2003, the number was reduced to all unfortunately 27 requests. And to conclude in 2004, space was solved, new programmes were designed in line with the Competition Protection Agency and with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the trust of banks was restored, and we expect HAMAG to fully fulfil the mission and take place in the matrix of support for small and medium-sized enterprises as defined by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31865	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31866	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-in-Office, dear colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the Croatian Guarantee Agency means for a small economy for 2003 it taxed very well in 2003 and I can say that there is virtually nothing important about the operation. We must point out that they have fully described their activities that are in accordance with the law. They also described the activity in part of the guarantee and support programmes and also the tax number of applications. Also, considering the limits they had and all the guarantees issued with the situation of the 31.12. of the 220 million kuna, we can say that they met their legal basis. The number of guarantees granted, subsidies, support is all taxing very well indicated in this report, as well as the income and expenditure account for the period until 31.12.2003. All programmes that mean HAMAG were also listed at the time, including programmes that were developed and put into use. We also have to praise this part of the tax collection of the number of requests that came to the Croatian Guarantee Agency, but also the number of requests submitted from previous HGA, means the Croatian Guarantee Agency and later to the Croatian Small Economy Agency and how they were processed, how many guarantees were required, how many support applications, and also very precise and means a review of the situation in the case of activated guarantees, and very precise explanations that they are, means how many guarantees were required, how many guarantees were granted, and at which stage those guarantees were activated. But we also need to be very objective and we need to look at some of the shortcomings that occurred between 2000 and 2003 in the work of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. I must say that as one of the representatives of the small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Croatia that 18, sometimes 17 employees in the period from 18.3.2002, when, with the Law on the Croatian Small Economy Agency, it was changed from HGA to HAMAG that only 121 subjects were processed in that period until 31.12., as the chairman of the administration said, 25 requirements that came in 2003 and 97 requirements that came to the beginning of the new establishment in 2003. I must say that during the period from the draft Croatian Guarantee Agency until 2002, when it ceased to operate, more than 4000 applications were submitted and 3300 guarantees were granted in the same period. Just means for comparison, how much more has the Croatian Guarantee Agency worked in the previous period than the Croatian Small Economy Agency did. I believe that the government policy in 2002, 2003, failed to take advantage of the opportunities that HAMAG meant as a legal basis and predicted not only in part of the guarantees but also in part of other points of activity of the agency, and here I must remind myself of the report that speaks in one part of it, so let me quote: "In the negative perception of business banks, the fact that guarantees were gradually left out of the agreement to encourage credit to the Ministry of crafts, small and medium enterprises with counties, cities and municipalities. In 2001 guarantees were provided only in exceptional cases, and the guarantees are not mentioned at all in the 2002 and 2003 contracts. Although formally excluded, entrepreneurs do not know about the possibility of guarantee, and business banks are in doubt. To remind you, the Agency's activities are provided by law in 15 items, 15 points, and, among other things, the Agency's activity with guarantees means providing guarantees, providing the necessary guarantees, providing support are encouraging, setting up and developing small-economic operators, encouraging investment in a small economy, financing the business and development of small-economic operators where there are not many reports in this report on these matters. Also in terms of these things that the Croatian Small Economy Agency should have done, the implementation of the public tender procedure for the lease or sale of other infrastructure facilities in accordance with Article 8 of the Law, the provision of support to increase employment, vocational education, retraining and qualification of workers, the provision of support for research, development and application of modern technologies, the provision of support for participation in international fairs and specialized exhibitions, the provision of professional assistance to small-scale operators including through electronic media, etc. I think that small and medium enterprises in the Republic of Croatia are one of the most prospective branches and that during this period it is meant because of the change from HGA to HAMAG that it missed the time that went irrevocably for 18 months, because the report says that from the moment of the adoption of the new law, which was 18.3.2002 until September 2003, practically the agency did not operate. We also need to look at that time, because of these concerns that banks had, it was very difficult to do business for young entrepreneurs who had ideas, who had projects, but simply did not because the activities of the Croatian Small Economy Agency were not sufficiently precise which they could not get support during that period and could not get guarantees. I believe that such things should change in the future because small and medium-sized entrepreneurship or, as it says in the law of micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship up to 250 employees is one of the backbones of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing the law may not have predicted, but which should be considered in future efforts and work means agencies, which is to monitor the impact of the credits realised in several segments, which is the number of employees, increase in turnover and increase in profits, means companies that have received guarantees through the Croatian Small Economy Agency and have received credit funds that they have involved in their activities. In this way, the Republic of Croatia and all of us here in the Parliament would have a good view of the situation of how much such agency has helped to act in the economy, how busy people are in this way, and how to develop the Agency's activities in the future. In the end, I think that maybe we should all think together and all the clubs, whether this because of these shortcomings that occurred in the Agency's operation in 2003, whether this report should be accepted without a fence or put it in the same way as we have, several times already, such a report would accept knowledge, because looking at the entire work of the agency did not fully justify its existence during that period. And let me get this straight. I must, however, be optimistic and conclude that I am pleased with the final sentences of this report in its supplement, which speaks for the Agency's work in 2004 where it speaks in point 4 of that supplement that during 2004, problems in the operation of HAMAG have been successfully solved, means that a new Agency Management Board has also been appointed, that the HAMAG guarantee is listed as one of the instruments of credit protection in the credit lines of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as local credit lines, which will certainly result in a greater number of guarantee applications. Also, since October 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted new guarantee programmes that have not been changed practically until, since 98, 99, and that sufficient and allocated budgetary resources have been transferred from neutral resources to the decision of the Management Board of the previous year. I am also pleased that the State Property Office has found a business space for the Agency's smooth operation. I hope with this report and the report that will come in 2004 that it will come early on the agenda, meaning the Croatian Parliament. That we will have significant shifts in the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Entrepreneurship, which will benefit the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31867	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is that Croatian agency guarantees for a small economy in lending could not be used, which is completely incorrect. The fact that it does not appear in favour of the contract and that it is used as an argument is completely incorrect. The second inaccuracy my colleague had said earlier was that the programmes had not changed in the Croatian Guarantee Agency, or HAMAG, since 99. My colleague, they've changed twice. They've been changed every time, and these programs are active all the time. So, from the age of 99 until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31869	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic. ... For the IDS Club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31870	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, let me, on behalf of the Club of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, assisted by a Međimurci, refer briefly to this Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. The IDS Club receives this Report on knowledge, but we believe that the Agency for Small Economy in 2003, despite numerous, primarily objective problems in business, could help our small and medium-sized private, commercial, merchant, individuals, craftsmen, institutions, cooperatives, agricultural economies and free interests listed in the Agency's documents as a targeted assistance group. We also believe that the work of this agency is very necessary, in order to facilitate the work of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, which we all say are the most vital part of our economy and we all have great expectations. And according to this report, little is given to them. As a result, all the problems in the functioning of this Agency which are listed in this Report should be resolved until the end so that this Agency can improve its business and can achieve its full role. The IDS Club, therefore, has two basic observations. First, the report itself describes the activities of the Agency which are based on the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. That's what we've heard. Therefore, not only the activities related to the granting of guarantees for loans, financial support for the reduction of credit costs or the subsidisation of interest on loans but also its role in encouraging the development of small economy entities, the promotion of investments in a small economy, the development of entrepreneurship of women and young people, etc. However, the report also states that it is too difficult to weigh part of HAMAG's activities in 2003 on the area of guarantee issuing, i.e. to address all the backlogs that were re-registrated, the re-registration from the Croatian Guarantee Agency could not be carried out operationally. The data tells us that between 1995 and 2003 three thousand 314 guarantees and three thousand 121 support were issued, which is approximately 400 a year. So we can't be satisfied with the number of guarantees 9 and the number of support 94 in 2003. For example, in 2002, the number was higher. 87 guarantees and 231 support were then issued. Also, this should mention the remarks made by entrepreneurs who speak of very difficult conditions. There are mortgages, additional insurance instruments that must be met by the Agency and to compete as users of guarantees or support, which should certainly change and facilitate the way towards obtaining these guarantees or support. And the great interest itself in the number of requirements made and captured over the past few years tells us that it is a necessary and useful instrument of business in our small economy. Our second observation, which we hope will be appreciated, already mentioned that most of the Agency's work so far has been related to the issue of guarantees and support, which was understandable because most of the time the Croatian Guarantee Agency has been operating precisely. While the new law, i.e. the new agency, has a much wider part of the activity or as defined in the description of the legal status of the Agency, it is said that the Agency is a special institution for the development and promotion of a small economy. So the Agency should play a much wider role, one of the leading, I would say, in the process of developing and encouraging a small economy, an important part of our economic system that holds our economy head over water with its vitality. But the question is, how long will it last? For example, a thousand 727 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been registered in Međimurje and similar in Istria County since 2003, which is as much as 98.5 registered entrepreneurs. We see how much their ratio is in this entire system. Therefore, the Agency should take responsibility and launch initiatives that it has the right to comply with the law and affect the improvement of the conditions of business of our small economy. For example, what the Agency should specifically warn about is the fact that the tax burden in the Republic of Croatia is significantly higher than that in the European Union. Namely, while the share of tax revenues, including contributions, and other revenues from the central and local budget, on the gross domestic product of today's 25th 2003 was 40.5%. In Croatia, according to the Ministry of Finance, it exceeded 47%. The Authority should also draw attention to the high operating costs which should be reduced and which could be affected by the State itself. They could thus draw attention to the fact that comparing the cost of meeting obligations in Croatia, meeting the tax obligations in Croatia and customs that it has shown that, as a percentage of the gross social product, the highest cost of meeting the VAT obligations and meeting the customs obligations. For example, the cost of meeting customs obligations for all Croatian importers, legal persons and craftsmen in 2001 amounted to about a billion kuna, i.e. 0.6% of gross social product. While the total annual cost of meeting VAT obligations, citizens and business facilities amounted to 0.8% of gross social products. The craftsmen thus spent almost the same amount on fulfilling their tax obligations, i.e. 96% of how much they pay to the State of Tax. So, if a craftsman pays 1 kuna income tax he spends another 96 lips to meet that obligation. Here, so these are some of our basic remarks to this report. We therefore take note of this Report's desire, therefore, that the Agency functions fully and achieves, therefore, its role in encouraging the development of a small economy from which we will all benefit greatly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31871	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31872	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Board. I believe that it is worth noting that this report speaks of a strategically well done job, first of all, would return to the 95th year when a good model of monitoring of the small economy was established in Croatia through guarantees which was in any case a new step so that those who are small, who are keenly seeking to develop, and often they encountered obstacles called closed doors of the bank in credit, and the inability to actually ensure the return of credit through those conditions that they once sought and this is the relationship between credit and mortgage relations as much as 1:5. That's why then the government defined the limit that should be for 500 million kuna guarantees, we see that it was one good framework, one good potential. And by the end of 2003, 220 million kunas were used because it was just as much a guarantee granted. In other words, this allowed a loan of 616 million 809 thousand kuna. As for the activation of guarantees, only 30 requirements have been activated to slightly greater than 6 million kuna. This relationship is good, perhaps even in relation to the experience of some other countries in transition, and even developed countries, and the lack of relationship activated in relation to the given guarantees. Three thousand 121 support has been paid. These support were just over 20 million kunas. I think that, because of this relationship, negotiations with the European Union as far as the small economy is concerned will actually be a formality. That's what Prime Minister Sanader said recently. Because this job, I return to the introduction is quite well prepared and one of the reasons is that there are potentials, though they need to be further developed, such as the Croatian Agency for Small Economy. But most important of all, for the first time in 2002, Croatia received the Small Economy Act, where it was not only legally defined as a small economy, the size was defined and programmes were also defined to help the sector. The former Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore adopted the Small Economy Development Programme, and the current government also adopted a programme last year for the next four-year period, and it is obvious that it is being implemented. It is important to say that there is also a special administration in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship that is also monitoring this extremely dynamic sector of the economy. As you have seen, the Croatian Small Economy Agency was registered in the Trade Register in 2003, however, it is important that by the end of that year the Management Board adopted the 2004 Work Programme, the Central Work Programme, then the project of the establishment of the HAMAG branch has brought all necessary regulations, rules and what is also an important detail, for the first time organised an innovation exhibition titled "Arka at the Zagreb Fair". Active guarantee programmes have also been left behind, and these guarantee programmes have referred to beginner entrepreneurs, for areas of special care or interest, for entrepreneurs who have been successful and who have been operating for more than a year and have been one specific project or programme for trade capital. Some other models have also been developed in the development of trade and small economy lending. And this is one of the reasons why a few fewer requests came to the Croatian Guarantee Agency, i.e. to HAMAG. It included cities, municipalities, counties. They created local development funds, even local guarantee funds. New programs have also been developed where the criteria were actually the quality of the program and not even a guarantee, let alone a mortgage. Let me remind you, these are well-developed youth programs in 2003, which for the first time run jobs and programs for women who also want to deal with entrepreneurship. As far as the total credit lines are concerned, we all know the figures that the project included 104 counties, cities and municipalities, and for three years only through cooperation with local units, about 3 billion kunas of credit or 5 000 and 900 requests have been processed and realised, paid. Also when looking at total credit lines for both new technologies and exporters of low tourism credit lines, then we can conclude that 4 billion and 535 million loans and 6 thousand 928 requests have been processed. In addition to these credit lines, ideas and implementation of projects in certain specific areas were monitored, these were of particular held interest, users could have just been craftsmen, small companies, they were subsidized costs of obtaining credit, they had been partially covered by operating costs if they went to work for the first time and they had been helped to draw up a business plan or request for credit. Such approvals were granted 492. However, not everything was so ideal, here in the report that you received on page 10. actually writes to us what was the central problem in the work of the then Croatian Guarantee Agency until 2000, and this was called unintended use of the guarantee funds, so it can be read that during the period from 95 to further placed in "Zadarcomerce", so they were given "Međimurje high-building" for example. And another one. These amounts of loans, as it says, weighs 12 million 771 thousand and 750 kuna. It should not even be noted that the Croatian Guarantee Agency should not be engaged in loans. That she wasn't allowed to do credit. However, these placements were used in a non-intentional way, it was obviously a good guess in the privatisation process for someone, and most tragic of all that these 12 million, almost 13 million kunas without interest ended up in a well for companies that went bankrupt and unfortunately Croatian guarantee agency HAMAG, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on that money I think it can and forget. This may be the worst that has happened in the operation of HAMAG and its predecessor, but what happened last year could probably significantly improve. The new credit line program is the first open competition only 15. 8th in the past year, contracts were concluded during the 11th month, and even the 12th and project implemented to lend a small economy this time with the counties has not realised, or paid off, a single loan. According to this request last year, the guarantee could not even come to HAMAG because the loans were not even granted. The second thing that we have to think about is the same thing in HAMAG is the credit model, because the model predicts that partners of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, so the counties have to subsidise interest exclusively, and that's about 1.5% on average compared to the credit potential. The credit potential in one year towards the county should be heavy somewhere around 100 million kuna and it is not difficult to guess that every county for interest subsidy should pay a million and a half kuna. In other words, if four such contracts are concluded in four years and each contract pays a million and 500 thousand kuna annually, in return for a loan of 8, 9 or 10 years as an average, each county will need to allocate for interest costs of 50 million kuna. Only to carry out four years of credit under these conditions. Or if we do that in 21 counties it's even a billion kunas how much they're going to have to do to track this way of lending. I just don't think that's possible because you're going to eat the original part of the budget. That's what some of the county's gonna get into at 20, 30, 40% of the original budget, and that's why the model's not good. The model should be changed in the sense that it continues with the current form of lending, to subsidize and help those who want to realise the project, which means that the counties are granted a million, two kunas a year to create a local credit fund, so that the credit fund is also used for pre-accession funds in Europe and according to the model that has so far been, these 104 counties, cities and municipalities in Croatia have received more than 150 million kuna over the past three years. I support, above all, the further reduction of interest that took place in the new form of lending proposed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, but I warn it will have to be suspended after the first year or second year, because the county partners will not be able to pay such subsidies for interest. It is likely that a combination should be made between the model that provides for grants and at the same time ask those who can and who want to do interest subsidies, finally as was in the old credit lines, so some counties, cities and municipalities decided to particularly subsidise interest in young people, especially for example. in the case of exporters, farmers, etc. In fact, this would be an additional step along with the implementation of these projects for young women and for beginners who will not be asked for even guarantees, let alone a mortgage, should already be assessed by their entrepreneurial idea, their potential and their ability to actually develop this project, to employ themselves, and after a year or two others. And what should not be forgotten about the link between the Croatian guarantee agency HAMAG and the entrepreneurship centre that we have in Croatia enough and which can be in that network very good partners, and especially if the project "van stop shop" is developed then one such energy for all who would be engaged in small entrepreneurship not only through lending but also through direct forms of support, not only financially but also advisory could give the best result. It is I who expect HAMAG to move in this direction, and I expect that the first step will be the establishment of a branch in the field to access decentralised and to bring this project back to life and develop as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31873	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31874	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In his speech, which most of all spoke about what the Ministry of Trade and Small Economy did in the past term, Mr. Pecek said last year loans were not approved. It's just not true. Units of local and regional self-government are fine-tuning loans. It is important to know that some programs are still under way that started in earlier periods where there were even problems with the placement because there was enough money. The new programs started during the year when needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31875	And a second correction, Honored Representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31876	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pecek said in his commitments to the County on the subsidisation of loans to small and medium enterprises that it would happen that the counties would be unable to comply with their obligations on subsidies, because speaking of 1 to 1.5% of interest subsidies he took practically that he was always taking means the maximum amount of credit, and we know that through annuities loans fall, meaning the debt falls and is automatically and the subsidy is far less. You didn't consider that when you were talking about those 10 million kunas per county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31877	Thank you. And the club of representatives of HSLS and DC, respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31878	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I can't take the impression that I had yesterday when we were discussing the drug abuse strategy, that the more these strategies and agencies we have, the more it is, the more it's the former government, and before that, it's founded many agencies and this one for a small economy, so the Agency for Investments and the Agency for Exports, so the Agency for Imports, we actually have a more messy situation, and we're losing energy instead of achieving our energy effect. And what's worse is the fact that we're discussing the Agency's 2003 report today. Today, no serious state, no serious legislative authority in the world can allow it to discuss something that is two years old, so it discusses data that are completely out of date, that are... and that actually mean nothing. If we really want to encourage a small economy then we have to be recent, so we have to have information instead of receiving information from two years late. It's not a mistake for the director, and I'm not saying it right now to criticize him, but simply because I don't think it's good for all of us. Croatia cannot afford to constantly discuss reports that are two years old. So we would really have to if we were to help a small economy that is most often suffering because it has too little information, which is people who are forced to fight for their jobs, for bread cover a week, a day, so in the day-to-day hectic, in that day-to-day employment, and they don't have enough information, instead of giving them information, we're discussing information that's three years old. Nor will we help them, nor will they have fresh, or fresh, information. And that's why it seems to me that we should again commit to the agency to come with a report last year within a month so that we, as a Parliament, can react and possibly foresee other measures that are needed to stimulate a small economy. What definitely falls into the eyes when we read this entire report is the fact that what to the most or almost 90% refers to the given guarantees and support. It's not a key role, I'd say, these agencies and that, I'm sure it's not exhausting the Agency's work. It is imagined, let us all read together, as the Agency will cover the activities of encouraging and setting up small economy entities, encouraging and investing, financing and providing guarantees, approval of support, monitoring and analysis, other professional activities, as well as cooperation with entrepreneurship institutions. You, apart from more exhaustive or less exhaustive support and guarantees reports, actually don't have all these other points at all. For me, for example, it's an interesting one point that's absorbed here into four sentences, if even at four, maybe even three. It is, for example, the giving of former, military or state-owned state property to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This, for example, is not mentioned here at all, only the example of Pula is mentioned, although it is clear to all of us that the state today, the Croatian state has a huge value. There are land in almost all cities, districts that are communally infrastructured and instead of making it available to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we have absorbed it here in 1 or 2 sentences. I will only mention the example of Varazdin, there is also former Minister Pecek, whom I thank on this occasion, who has one such former military plot of 15 hectares in a year re-designed exactly in a small economy area where today 35 small entrepreneurs are. Thirty-five small entrepreneurs entered such a zone in a year. It can be done by all the other cities, we've absorbed this in one sentence. Because of course, when the data is for 2002 and 2003. Therefore, I don't think there's really any point in discussing this and trying to read anything when it comes to data that's completely out of date, and if we can at least have some good of this whole report, then I think we should all together commit to the Agency and the Government that as much as possible use of all these other activities that the Agency is responsible for, which are taxed here, that this really doesn't all come down to guaranteeing. Because if you want to, giving guarantees, or providing support if Croatia were to have a financial and banking market, and if the Croatian banks were to be exposed to being on a risky capital market, then of course the question would be how much does it make sense for someone to subsidise interest? Then the banks should do it themselves. However, since they are mostly protected because unfortunately we sold the banks to foreign property and since such a non-risk capital market and the financial market is then unfortunately, here we have to deal only with how much support we have provided, how much of these interest we have subsidized. I think that this should actually be regulated by the logic of the market itself, and the state and the Agency should provide support in this particular, to call it risk groups, or groups that themselves are difficult to get fresh capital. Like young entrepreneurs, innovations, etc. Frapantan, for example, is the information listed here as, I would say, even a little credit to the Agency, if it had even managed to give one young innovator during 2003 support. Ladies and gentlemen, you've had a chance to hear that our innovators seem to have won over 10 prizes on three counts. Our innovators of Croatia in this non-enterprise environment have managed to win over 10 medals on the reviews, but here you see, the Agency has even managed to give one of them support. I mean, that's really unusual, not to say even funny. So let's finally realize that we here are the legislative body that should be reported at all times about what is happening in Croatia. Instead of discussing data that's two years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31879	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 3:00. The representatives of Nenad Stazić, Jure Bitunjac, Florian Boras, Nevenka Majdenić, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. And we are discussing the annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency (HAMAG) for 2003. Dear Representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31881	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here, indeed, by respecting all the difficulties in the work of the agency, would not be particularly concerned with figures whose meaning really needs to be read in a deeper professional context, so I would actually ask you to take this opportunity to draw attention to only two details in this report. Therefore, the purpose of the establishment of both the Croatian Guarantee Agency and its follow-up to the Croatian Small Economy Agency is to encourage and establish small economy entities, encourage investment, finance and provide guarantees, approve support, and monitor analyses and other professional businesses as well as co-operation with entrepreneurship institutions. But like any other institution in the economy, this agency has a direct objective of actually real and real increase in the number of employees. Unfortunately, in the report on the Agency's work and business for 2003, we cannot find any information about it, and perhaps for this reason it is actually a false idea that the purpose of this agency is simply to provide a guarantee or support to a small economy entity, after which we consider that we have done our job in this case for 2003. I am aware of the fact that in 2003 only 2 million kunas were provided by the rebalancing plan for the payment of support to farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I am also aware that these are indeed minimal funds and the question is what we can at all expect when we actually granted a total of 94 support in 2003, and it clearly states in the report that they mainly amount to about several thousand kunas while the requirements for lending are decimated in relation to the requirements for single support. Although these amounts of support are insignificant I think they can also influence the increase in the number of employees. In addition to the annual report, it is stated that by issuing a guarantee and support from 1995 to 2003 that around 5,000 people are therefore allowed to be employed. Since about 637 million kunas were secured throughout all those years, this means that the price of a new job was about 127 thousand kuna. But of course, this only in line with business plans for investment studies that are completely certain to deviate from reality, that is, the one realised. We don't have any real data. I believe that this report should nevertheless include the number of those potentially newly employed according to plans and studies, as well as a check of the real employees in the year preceding this report. And here's my second topic, the second review of this report, so it's also found here that loans to small-scale operators are based on a relatively high 10% interest rate, and I think that in fact the state and the agency should negotiate and achieve a more favourable interest, and perhaps even access to subsidisation of the interest rate, which makes some units of local self-government very successful, and I think that in that way they actually have a very direct and very high quality impact on the number of new employees, so in their environments and, of course, on the level of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31882	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31883	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Agency for the Encouragement of Small Entrepreneurship, fellow Members and colleagues. The Small Economy Encouragement Act, which was adopted in 2002, is one in a series of laws that the Croatian Government before and today seeks to improve the economic images of Croatia, make our economy more competitive, if for a small economy that has proved quite flexible and if we look at the experiences of other countries not only transitions, but also of the European Union in some way we are given one chance to make a new step. When it comes to the Croatian Small Economy Encouragement Agency itself, I must say that it has a significant role to play if we start from the fact that the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia is de facto almost entirely in foreign hands and my personal opinion that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and some other financial institutions are not enough to find, in particular, one financial line which would be quite flexible when it comes to certain problems. Because today if you're buying a car in some way it's not hard to get a loan, or if it's about some other import goods, mostly permanent... However, if you try to open a business, a small craft, a home craft, then you have insurmountable obstacles. In that sense, I believe that this law, namely that HAMAG, is one institution that can mean a lot to small craftsmen, for small entrepreneurs, although it is the law itself. Only the report can say that it is correct and clear, in particular, would welcome this addition to the report itself, where support was given from 1995 to 2003, before, across the way from the Croatian Guarantee Agency, and today via its legal follower, HAMAG. I must say that the total guarantees that have been given, and which has been reported by the representative, the chairman of the HAMAG administration, that the total guarantees that have been achieved for the past eight years, means from 95th to 2003 in the traffic period, are not in the extent to which they should be and that the expectations are certain of both government and government until now, and that those of us in this House have not achieved within that extent, in the extent to which they should have been. I believe that the national programme for encouraging entrepreneurship prepared by the Ministry of Economy, where a special emphasis is placed on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, is likely to produce certain results. I think that through HAMAG projects will be encouraged when it comes to guarantees that will range from 40 depending on which project is 40 to 80%, and on the other hand, the government adopted programmes that HAMAG accepted last year are agriculture, an area of particular state interest, growth and development, a new entrepreneur, a trade capital. The amounts are significantly higher than they were before, and I see this one great chance mainly in economically passive areas, when it comes to the chances of entrepreneurs in these areas. I also have to say that on each of these programmes the Competition Protection Agency has given a positive position, which is very important, because we need to know that there is a law on... And on the other hand, as a candidate for entry into the European Union, we are waiting for certain rules of the game, which we have in some way already adopted at this stage. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would particularly point out is that I would say the information mostly of those people who should just start dealing with a particular business, a particular business. And that's why I consider it necessary to set up a HAMAG branch. I do not know, in this report I cannot see whether in one of the cities it is founded and in any case it is imposed as a need not to increase red tape or someone's employment, but to make those programmes brought by the Croatian Government and this Croatian Parliament adopts to be available and not only in terms of guarantees but in the first order of education of entrepreneurs and their information and what is happening on the world market. He would certainly welcome the position of the Ministry of Economy and Minister when it comes to working areas. I believe that this is one opportunity where the state land was the one that the lords of the Croatian forest or the very state itself owned by it that it was one great opportunity for small entrepreneurs who would come to such places where they would have solved the issue of infrastructure and where the land price would be acceptable and in terms of what little burden these potential investments mean when it comes to land itself. I also believe that all of the assets that are located in our units of local self-government are mainly those that are under the control of the Ministry of Defence and are not in office, or that they will not be allowed to manage local self-government units as soon as possible, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, would in some way activate these potential resources. Anyway, I think this report is correct. However, it can still be read that we did not achieve all the expectations we had made in the establishment of the Croatian Guarantee Agency as well as the HAMAG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31884	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31885	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of the agency, colleagues and fellow MPs! Discuss the work of HAMAG, which nearly 2/3 has hardly even worked, can only be discussed in the context that such a situation is no longer repeated and that the objective and purpose for which it was established is not questionable. From January 21st, 2003, when it was registered until September 2003, when the Hamag administration was finally completed formally could not function seriously. All this is beautifully written in the 2003 annual report, the financial indicators are listed and even the problems in the work are mentioned while the damages mentioned above are reluctantly mentioned by that agency. I'll nicely let me quote that part of the report that's talking about it. I quote "Croatian Small Economy Agency is registered and registered in the Court Register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb on 21 January 2003. Only then could work be restarted after six months of full business suspensions resulting from the provisions of the Small Economy Development Act, which is prescribed that the Croatian Economic Agency ceases and the HAMAG is established as a legal follower. As a result of non-business, a number of guarantee applications and also a number of requests for activation of a guarantee that could not be solved have been collected. During 2003, the backlogs were compensated and processed, i.e. only 94, and guarantees and related support were granted. However, what is important is the bank's trust in the Agency's guarantees and there has been a drastic decline in the guarantee requirements. Only 330 requests for guarantees and support were received in 2002, mainly during the first six months of active work, which accounts for 56% compared to the previous year. In 2003, the number was reduced to only 25 requests. The negative perception of business banks has further contributed to the fact that guarantees have been gradually left out of the agreement on the incentive lending of the Ministry of craft, small and medium enterprises with counties, cities and municipalities." It's a finished quote. There's nothing left for us but to accept the proposed report. However, there remains an unsettled question of what 17 employees worked for that year, which was paid for and why the number of employees was increased. To illustrate the inefficientness of HAMAG, it is enough to say that the salaries of employees in 2003 paid 2 million 177 thousand 342 kuna and for the paid support of a million 656 thousand 218 kuna. We also ask ourselves how much damage is done to small entrepreneurship because of the failure to provide guarantees and support and how to restore the trust of banks. I believe that great damage has been done to all entrepreneurs and, in particular, to entrepreneurs in the area of particular interest because of the situation in land books in these areas and that without the state guarantee of the bank they were not willing to lend their projects. In particular, it is a pity that the insurance funds in the budget and those which decreased by nine months were not used but remained unused in the amount of 2 million 587 thousand 271 kuna. It is also a pity that the funds for the establishment of local agencies and entrepreneurship centres that were secured in the amount of 970 thousand 395 kuna were used only in the amount of 65 thousand 331 kuna. Mr. Pecek today spoke of the need to transfer money to the local administration and to the county and I am sorry that he did not then make an effort to make sure that these funds for the establishment of local agencies and entrepreneurship centres were not fully achieved. I believe that the 2004 report on the business of HAMAG will show that HAMAG has finally started dealing with problems and fostering a small economy, or that it will be doing the job it was founded for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31886	Thank you. Replicated representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31887	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So in my presentation, I tried to say that it was unusually important but also difficult to pass the Small Economy Act, that it was important to adopt a small economy development programme, all the accompanying acts and, of course, the registration of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Statutes, all regulations and such. Surely more could have been done in the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy. But here in the report, I wouldn't want to be mean, it also says what our year was like. Last year, the agency's management board met for the first time in the second half of the year. Guarantee programmes were brought in December of last year, which means that last year we will not have a single guarantee which is not difficult to conclude if they are to bring in the programmes in December. So much for that. Continuity must, however, be appreciated for what has been done strategically, for everything to work, so that it can start with full sails and at least try it next year if we were worse than expected in the past. And once again I will say, it is incorrect that the small-economic lending programme did not provide for the possibility of guaranteeing the repayment of loans by the HAMG or the Croatian Guarantee Agency. That's incorrect. What did not say in the contract is less important, but the contract was applied regulated by some other things, but the agency could give a guarantee and the banks accepted such guarantees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31888	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Majdanka, Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31889	Dear President, I believe that the reconstruction from the Croatian Small Economy Agency in Hamag has lasted too long. It lasted six months in 2002. Registration was, on January 21st, and finally, the administration was formed in September 2003. So for almost a year and a half, Hamag didn't do what he needed to do. However, it says here that they later, during the last quarter, the Management Board adopted a work programme, a medium-term work plan for 2004, 2007. The pay regulations, but what does that say? He says that in 2003, Hamag dealt with himself, not what he existed for. And therefore, if a law is passed on a reshuffle, then it should be taken into account and in which time it will be, in order not to cause much damage to the small economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31890	Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31891	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President Hamaga, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report from Hamag for 2003. As this report says, the Croatian Small Economy Agency operates under the Law on the Encouragement and Development of Small Economy, National Journal 29/2, and is obliged to submit an annual report to both the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament. At first, the question is raised, and this question has been asked by many fellow MPs in their debate why this report has not come to the parliamentary benches before, because it is an annual report which would mean that, after the end of one calendar year, such a report to the Croatian Parliament is submitted at the latest in the next 6 months and that they may take a position on it. This is how we discuss something that happened a long time ago and discuss matter that is no longer current. The report regularly lists the activities of the agency that may need to be mentioned and listed to be reminded and even more so in order to inform the public of what the activities of the agency are? Therefore, the Agency's activities are to encourage and set up small economy entities, encourage investment, finance and grant guarantees, approve support, monitor, analysis and other professional jobs, and ultimately co-operation with other institutions to encourage entrepreneurship. In view of the importance of small entrepreneurship and crafts in the entire economic system of the Republic of Croatia, the need for such an institution as the Small Economy Agency, which would significantly contribute to the promotion, modernisation of the small economy and these listed activities, to the activities in the work description, has a significant impact on areas of particular national interest. And now we're commenting on a little report. The report lists all the programmes, all the activities of the Agency from 1995 to 2003 with the amounts of funds activated by individual programmes. Thus, I will only list some items, from this report, that from the start of the Agency's work to 31.12.2003, it was received what was already repeatedly repeated 4123 requests for loans and grants in total amounting to 811 million and 561 thousand kuna, and 3 thousand and 100, 3000 314 guarantees for loans of 616 thousand and 809 and some small thousand kuna and a total of 3121, 121 support amounting to 20 million and 62 thousand and some small kuna. The report therefore mentions the data from the previous period i.e. before 2003. It also mentions the delay in the work of the agency caused by the reconstruction of Hamag, which has already been elaborated by colleagues in 2002, so that in 2003 Hamag mainly dealt with the issue of guarantees or all the backlogs of the previous year, from the period of reconstruction of the Agency. My colleagues have discussed a lot of this data and I will look mainly at two by one significant moments in this report that quite clearly depicts the real situation in, in the work of this Agency. So in 2003 it was issued, it was also mentioned repeatedly only, underlining 9 guarantees for loans of 2 million and 358 thousand and 381 kuna. And 94 support was granted in the amount of 479 thousand and 668 thousand kuna. On the other hand, according to this report for the current operations of the Agency, the salaries of employees and all the costs of operations were allocated from the State budget 3 million and 500 thousand kuna, and the actual costs were 3 million and 593 thousand and 402 kuna. If we compare these figures, This appropriation is intended to cover: for employees' salaries plus costs, of, of, of 3 million and 593 thousand 402 kuna, then the legitimate question of the purpose of work and existence is essentially the agency itself. Because these figures are obviously talking about her here contribution we can say at least for this period in stimulating and developing a small economy. I would also refer to another point in this report, which is: the report stresses that the Agency has been taking great care of the areas of reconstruction. So the areas that suffered the greatest damage in the Homeland War as well as the victims and participants of the Homeland War. Thus, it is said that 70 % of the guarantees and almost 80% of the financial support are granted to the Agency in the areas of special state care so far, and almost 80 % of the financial support so far. If that's what it's like to say hello, and with that, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can all agree. Encouragement of entrepreneurship in these areas is a state interest, business in these areas are extremely difficult because as we know it is difficult to get credits because they do not have the means to, for bail, and also hard, and land books are not arranged especially in this area as a consequence of the war. In this Report, the percentages list how much these guarantees and support are shared in certain counties, which I do not consider to be crucial in this debate. But I can say that it falls into the eyes that the Sibenik Knin County belongs to that county group with only a few percent of these requirements approved. It is very unusual when we know that a large part of the Sibenik Knin County falls within the area of special state interest of the Sibenik Knin County has suffered enormous damage and destruction in the Homeland War. We know that a large number of exiled Croats and BiH and Kosovo live in the area of Sibenik Knin County. It is this group of our citizens in an extremely difficult position when it comes to entrepreneurship because these citizens do not have real estate that they could bet on as a mortgage to raise any loans. The Agency should focus its activities on these areas to create conditions for entrepreneurship and related employment. And finally, to conclude this report has been properly made accountingly and formally. Many data are available not only from 2003, but also from a wider time area of work for this agency. However, when the data from the report is better analysed, it is observed that the Agency has not fully justified its existence. What is certainly not the consequence of the agency's work alone is the question that should be asked both the founder and, at a certain point, the Government. Because the report itself shows that they have had difficulty in working on conditions of space working, it is mentioned here, and because of the reorganization or re-registration of the agency itself. And finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of this report can be accepted, but we can never be satisfied with the work and results of the agency. I believe it can and must be done much more to justify the Agency's purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31892	Thank you. And respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31893	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we are at the end of the debate on the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy in 2003 and it is possible to discuss this report in two ways. If we were to discuss just what HAMAG was doing in 2030, we'd have little to say. But I think that this report should also be used in order to say something about the Institute of Entrepreneurship Assistance Guarantee. We have today two points of the agenda one was the Competition Agency called the legal vacuum in operation during 2003. Because we'll also remember that institution from April to October was without a person to represent, even without acting. A similar situation was also in HAMAG, which is the legal follower of the call Croatian Guarantee Agency. Croatian Guarantee Agency ceases working 30. In 2002, HAMAG was only registered on 20 January 2003. And management was also given in a way as much as normal to function in the fall of 2003. The guarantee itself is certainly a convenience for entrepreneurs who do not have enough of their own resources to repay the requested loan. It certainly also affects the reduction of interest rates as it of course affects the reduction of the risk to the bank's placements. In addition, grants shall also be made possible through the guarantee agency institute or HAMAGA mainly to beginners and entrepreneurs in the field of special state care. Generally, I think that the guarantee system has justified its existence all there since 95th, so it ends with 2003, the period we're talking about today. A total of 3314 guarantees worth 616 million kuna projects have been granted. Over 3,000 support has been given, and according to investment programmes and plans over 5,000 jobs have been provided that are thus encouraged and stimulated. In addition, 1900 guarantees were given in agriculture which did not have a direct consequence of new employment, but certainly are an increase in standards. And during that period from 95 to now, the first two years were kind of spent, I'd say, for stalking a guarantee agency. From 97 to 2001, the maximum number of guarantees and support was provided. In 2002 and 2003, as can be seen from the report, almost an empty walk has been spent due to the inability to provide guarantees and support as well as payments under previously issued guarantees. What is important to say is that this guarantee system has meant a lot to entrepreneurs especially in areas of special state interest throughout that period. And to help rebuild the programs, so to the participants and the victims and the victims of the Homeland War. More than 70% of guarantees and almost 80% of grants were placed in these areas. That these areas are, of course, the most unfavourable situation because of the state of land books, but also because of the facilities that are actually being renewed and which cannot be subject to mortgages and entrepreneurs in any way, cannot provide guarantees for the return of credit. In the distribution of placed and guarantees and grants and grants, I think it should take care, however, that no matter what everyone needs but, or all the ends of the war are killed, so there is also my Carlovakia County that some way is properly valorised. That is to say, the placements are also given in these areas. In 2003, due to non-business, a number of requirements were collected for guarantees that had no one to solve. There has also been a decline in the number of requirements because, in some ways, bank confidence in this system in 2002 is 56% less required than 20'01. A year. In 2003, only 27 guarantees applications or support applications were received. Because the banks were actually waiting for those demands from the previous period that had already been set to be resolved. And they didn't want to make any new demands. And said by a number of speakers, HAMAG more seriously began its activities in September 2003 when members of the administration were appointed. Of course, it is right to ask the question of what was done in that institution during that whole time to eat 17 or 18 employees, I am sure to receive the wages neatly. But that's not the greatest evil either. It's important that if that system worked and started working. And according to the report at the end of 2003, and in 2004, while the system was therefore set up, a new board of directors was appointed, the missing funds were set up earlier, either through the transfer of neutral funds from the previous period or by the rebalancing of the necessary guarantees, the office space of HAMAG was resolved, and I believe that in this way all conditions were created for HAMAG to fully meet the expectations that entrepreneurs expect from it. I don't think anyone in this assembly is against encouraging entrepreneurship, it's not against the HAMAG institution because it has its full meaning and I believe that the reports, the next reports that we're going to get here, and especially for 2005, will be much more quality and much more content than this for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31894	Thank you very much. The president of the HAMAG administration considers that there is no need to give a final review, so I am concluding the debate. Thank you very much. Annual report on the business of the Croatian small economy agency HAMAG for 2003. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. It takes note of the annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2003. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 90 votes for, 18 abstentions, with the majority accepted this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31897	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honored gentlemen and Madam Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Mico Klepo, president of the Energy Regulatory Council. This report, this document before you in the first part, was submitted at the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament on 24 September 2004. At that time, after the debate, the Croatian Parliament was free to point out a series of commendable words which, during this debate, was sent to the Council for regulation for its work and the results of its work, reached a conclusion which obliges the Council to supplement this report with a detailed financial report and thus to deliver it to the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the Board of Regulators did it. Let me just briefly pass through this first part of the report that was presented and discussed at the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. In any event, that first part shall demonstrate and demonstrate the complexity of the conditions and also the good results of the work of the Energy Regulatory Council. To point out those observations of importance to the development of the energy market and public services and finally to introduce you to the way in which the funding is financed, i.e. the conditions, financial aspects and the results of the 2003 operation of the Board of Regulators. In 2003, it was the first full year of work of the Regulatory Council to be established and started in mid-2002. During that year 2003, work was continued on the development of a legislative and regulatory framework for the energy sector and the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, a number of sublegal documents continued. All this points to the fact that the Regulatory Council, which started in full scope, had not yet defined all the content and all the procedures in which it was to be involved. During 2003, the basic and main activities seemed to work on the issue of licences so that the Council received 160 licence applications in the middle of that year and processed 70 or 74 of the applications by the end of the year. I am free to submit to you a report or to inform you that right now in the Republic of Croatia 99% of the energy sector, and I think according to the criteria of the economic power and total annual income, works within the system of permits and proper supervision set up by the Energy Activity Regulatory Council. Without these permits, no energy activity can actually be carried out. The significant work was dedicated, or a significant part of the time was dedicated to the work and supervision of the application of tariff systems, tariff systems that were adopted during 2002 after the definition of the legal framework. That year, the Council established compensations for the use of the transmission distribution network, repeatedly decided, exercised control over the application of the tariff system for natural gas supply, determined fees or tariffs for the use of transport systems for emergency gas and oil. The Regulatory Council addressed complaints from customers, complaints from energy operators, conducted mediation procedures, and also collaborated with consumer, media and professional public organisations. The Council is the first body to be established by the relevant advisory bodies under the Consumer Protection Act. The Council actively participated in activities around the regional market, international cooperation, was involved in international associations and associations, actively participated in meetings, conferences, seminars, workshops and regardless of limited capacities, and only organised several such meetings. The Council and what is very important within the time limit prescribed by the law has adopted, or proposed and adopted all sublegal acts under its jurisdiction and has been actively involved in the production of all other sublegal documents and sublegal implementing documents in cooperation with the competent Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, i.e. all other institutions. A brief review of the situation by sectors in the energy sectors. In the sector, the market and the electricity sector, i.e. the electricity market, there have been some delays in the process of restructuring, detachment, or "albanding" activities and, consequently, a delay in opening up the electricity market dominantly due to problems or doubts regarding the model of the power sector organisations and the position of the system operator. This situation today has been resolved in a way that new laws have been passed, a new package of laws has been passed. The natural gas sector and the natural gas market are significantly in line with the European Union directives, with natural gas supplies in the jurisdiction of INE Naftaplin, the Commercial Business Sector. And the price system is arranged by an appropriate tariff system. In the case of gas transport, instead of the law of a negotiated approach in implementation, a regulated approach shall apply to the use of the transport system of gas, or the system in which the council determines the tariff for use. The main problem is on the part of distribution companies, i.e. the distribution of gas that burdens a number of problems. Distribution areas and distribution capacities are fragmented, delivery volumes are often very low, companies are burdened with financing problems with unresolved investment status, investment through connections and the like. In the oil and oil products sector, oil transport is, in principle, and in principle, a negotiated approach in which the Council actually determines the above amount of tariff for the use of this system. We all know that the price system of oil derivatives is under a certain formula mechanism. The sector and the heat market were not regulated by the relevant law, as far as we know, it's going right now. Let me also inform you that the Council has been working actively, has contributed to further improvement in the light of the legal and regulatory framework of the energy sector and the market in the Republic of Croatia, and that a high assessment of the level of implementation of the energy activities according to the criteria of independence, visibility and responsibilities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which it has given to the Republic of Croatia, has been largely successful in the transmission report 2004. In this document, which covers 28 countries in the region, namely 17 countries that have at all the relevant regulatory bodies, the Republic of Croatia is placed in a high fifth place, practically sharing a position with the Bulgarian regulatory body, which numbers 90 people who evaluate themselves is among one, meaning the highest of those countries that are already joined and which are members of the European Union. The second part of the updated report before you constitutes a financial report, i.e. the closure of the budget for the work of the Council for 2003. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation on the financing of the work of the Regulatory Council, there are two sources of funding. These are the revenues of carrying out their own activities, i.e. the basis of the payment of one-off fees and fees and of 0,07% of the total annual revenue achieved in the previous year by energy operators carrying out one or more energy activities, and the holders are to carry out the energy activities issued by the Regulatory Council. Under the Energy Regulation Act, the Board of Regulators shall, with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, adopt an annual financial plan for the work of the Council and a final account of those funds. The funds for the work of the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities under the previously applicable Energy Regulatory Act and the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation were financed by the costs of the work of the Council itself and its administrative and technical services, the costs of the work of a non-profit legal person performing for the Board of Regulators, which carried out professional activities and the costs of researching the energy market for public services in energy activities. In its work so far, the Regulatory Council has received expert support from the Energy Institute "Croatia Pozar" based on the decision of the Energy Institute "Croatia Pozar" to prepare and carry out professional tasks for the needs of the Energy Regulatory Council, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 8(2). The energy regulation law adopted on 5 December 2002. On the basis of that decision, the Council for Regulation at the meeting adopted decisions and concluded a contract on the performance of professional activities with the Energy Institute and all those contracts equally as a contract for the lease of space to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2002 and during 2003, the Regulatory Council developed several versions of the draft financial plan for 2003 on its own or in cooperation, i.e. according to the criteria and instructions of the Office for Internal Control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The point is that clear criteria were to be established or sought for all similar regulatory bodies or agencies, which were more than one, which did not have a specific way of defining financial reports, pardon financial plans, or later financial and closing accounts. However, in the end, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not obtain prior consent to the financial plan for 2003. The basis of the law, i.e. the Statute of the Board of Regulators, which determines that the addition of consent is using the plan for the past year and continued to apply the financial plan for... year for which the Board of Regulators has received prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the financial report, i.e. the closure account for 2003, had to follow that structure from 2002. It should be noted that, in 2003, the conditions changed significantly compared to 2002, i.e. increased the size of the work and activities of the Regulatory Council. As seen in that financial report under 2002 as nine items, 65 + 3 or 4 additional projects increased in 2003. Of course, without prior consent to the financial plan, especially in a situation where this agreement is prescribed by law, by any institution and public institution, and by the authority for the regulation of energy activities, the conditions of financial operations and the realisation of transactions and projects in relation to its law of prescribed competences are difficult. On the one hand, it is mandatory to enforce the law of jurisdiction and tasks which we have done, and on the other, to question whether, in what form and how to launch and organise projects and tasks from the domain of regulation of energy activities of market surveillance and organisation, public services, the development of tariff system methodologies and the determination of fees and tariffs, research into the quality of energy services, consumer protection, etc. In 2003, the total revenue of the Energy Regulatory Council amounted to 22 million 906 thousand 398.96 kuna and was spent on 9 million 243 thousand 201 kuna and 78 June. It should be noted that, in 2003, the Regulatory Council achieved significantly higher revenue than planned, which should be thanked or the consequences of the licence applications that arrived almost at the same time in mid-July 2003 when almost all energy operators submitted their applications in the prescribed time limit. At its meeting on 30 June 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on the granting of prior consent to the final accounts for the work of the Energy Regulatory Council for 2003 and obliged the Council to pay the surplus revenue on expenditure for 2003 into the state budget and to provide funding from the state budget for the insurance of the business space of the Council for the regulation of energy activities and for other needs of the Council. Excess revenue over expenditures for 2003 and thus resources were paid to the state budget of 13 million and 663 thousand 197 kuna and 18 June. In the meantime, the Board of Regulators addressed the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a request to be granted a lease, leased for use or in the framework of available funds approved to buy a business space for accommodation and work. At the end of 2004, the Regulatory Council rented and agreed to use the business space at the address Koturaška 51 in Zagreb. The Regulatory Council is today located and works at that address. This business space with the size and quality and equipment is enough for the organisation and start of work and for the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency at an estimated capacity of up to 35 employees. The amendments have recently been adopted, i.e. the adoption and publication of three new laws in a set of energy laws, the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the Law on the electricity market and the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities. This last one, instead of the Energy Regulatory Board, establishes the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA as its legal successor. In any event, it would be very useful to remove at the very beginning of the Agency all observed irregularities and obstacles and difficulties that followed the establishment and work of the Regulatory Council from its establishment to date, as well as in the financing segment of its work, i.e. financial operations. It is a real need for clear, pre-known rules and visible criteria for the development of financial, independent, independent and non-profit public institutions as the Agency will be. The Agency should have the right and responsibility to carry out, independently and independently, all obligations, tasks and projects under its jurisdiction within the approved annual financial plan of funds. Finally, the Agency should be obliged to publish the Financial Report publicly. I believe that these are useful and in any case good recommendations for the successful organisation and start of work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as the legal follow-up of the Energy Regulatory Board. The Regulatory Council in this regard will do its utmost to ensure that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA is organised as soon as possible and as successfully as possible and that its work begins. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your kind attention and I would like to ask you to accept an updated report from the Council on energy regulation for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31898	Thank you very much to Mr. President of the Council. Do the committee's reporters want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The word came out on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31899	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, as previously said, adopted the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations that are important for the development of energy markets and public services for 2003. At the very 10th session of 24 September 2004, a conclusion was reached adopting the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations which are important for the development of the energy market and public services for 2003. But according to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, the Energy Regulatory Council has been obliged to supplement this report with a detailed 2003 Financial Report. The updated Report of the Energy Regulatory Council delivered to the Croatian Parliament and this is the topic of today's debate. Thus, the report should be highlighted, it is an opportunity to consider with several different aspects the evaluation of the work of the Regulatory Council and to reach the stage of the development of the regulation of the energy sector and energy markets in the Republic of Croatia, but also to draw useful recommendations for the organisation, i.e. the reorganisation of the new energy regulation body, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA. A few words on the financing of the Energy Regulatory Council, something that has already been said. The Council has so far been financed from two sources. A) the first revenue from carrying out its own activity on the basis of fees, and I particularly stress, one-time fees and fees. I B) of 0,07 % of the total annual income achieved in the previous year by energy operators carrying out one or more energy activities on the basis of an energy activity permit issued by the Regulatory Council. The Board of Regulators financed the costs of the Council’s work itself, its administrative and technical services, which was very small from only a few employees, as well as the costs of the work of a non-profit legal person who has been performing professional tasks for the Regulatory Council and the costs of researching the energy and public services market in energy activities. In its work so far, the Regulatory Council, as I pointed out, was not filled properly, was not adequately teamed up and therefore needed to seek the appropriate professional support it received from the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozar" based on the Decision on the establishment of the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozar" to prepare and carry out professional tasks for the needs of the Energy Activity Regulatory Council. Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The energy regulation law adopted on 5 December 2002. On the basis of this Regulation, the Board of Regulators concluded contracts with the Energy Institute "Hrvoje Pozar". I'd say, almost only and only that I don't think it's good so far, and hopefully it won't be in the future. Under the Law, the Council for Regulation with the prior consent of the Government adopted the Annual Financial Plan for the work of the Regulatory Council and the closure of the accounts of those funds. Very briefly, as pointed out, a few words about the financial operations of the Council in several previous years. In 2002, according to the results of the business, the Board of Regulators paid the difference in revenue over expenditure in the State budget of more than 6 million kuna. I think it's good for the State budget, but it's not good for the overall development of the energy sector of all those who, the Institute and other institutions living off that kind of consulting, expertise, study making, strategy, etc. A similar situation occurred again in 2003, as pointed out and I believe that these facts that the Council mostly made significant payments to the State budget will not be repeated in the coming years. Because instead of the Council, the Croatian Agency will start to function as a regulatory agency that will be staffed and teamed and you will know how to use these funds in quality, wisely and responsibly. It should be noted that in 2003, when the Regulatory Council achieved significantly higher revenue than planned, the highest contribution was made to one-off fees. One-off fees for carrying out energy activities since the legal period when energy entities were required to submit appropriate applications for authorisation was July 2003. However, in July 2003, there will be no future and these income assets that mainly came from the largest energy entities such as INA, HEP, PLINACRO, JANAF, gas distributors, etc. There will be no future in the budget of the Council, i.e. the new Agency. A few words about everything that has happened since our last debate here in the Croatian Parliament. It should be recalled that new energy laws have been passed in the meantime. In particular, 3 new laws have been adopted from a set of energy laws: the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the Law on the electricity market and the Law on energy regulation. This last one is the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities, instead of the Energy Activity Regulatory Council, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is being established. In view of all the above, it is necessary to draw the relevant conclusions and lessons from the previous experience of the Regulatory Council as some lessons are particularly important and are related to funding, i.e. the means for which it can be realistically assessed that quality work will be needed by the Agency. As the Council for Regulation in its professional work has so far been used by a non-profit legal person, the Energy Institute of Croatian Fire, but the idea here is very clear. It is necessary to strengthen the Agency, which must have its own professional services and staff and which are necessarily well-educated and experienced in all segments of the Agency's competence in order to enable the Agency to meet all of the needs that arise every day in the energy sector. In order for such professional, therefore educated experienced workers to have motives to come and work at the agency, temporary salaries, vocational education and training must be offered, as this should be taken into account in particular. Motivation, expertise and education of agency staff will be a key prerequisite for its successful work. It is certain that, in part, the agency in its work, so on the job, the tasks that have been given to it by new laws will benefit as well as so far. But I would say perhaps a lot more and domestic colleges, institutes, institutions of consulting and other specialised legal and physical persons, and NGOs, institutions and finally associations, because the decisions that must be made in the future in the energy sector will require well-prepared analytical studies, bases and all that is necessary in the processes to come in the privatisation of the energy sector such as HEP privatisation, etc. There are no mistakes like there have been in privatising some other important sectors. In addition, the Agency must continue to participate actively in the further construction of the legislative framework for the energy sector and markets in the Republic of Croatia. Something has also been said about European directives that is a set of tasks and jobs to come, a transparent and consistent regulatory framework respecting the principles that adopt the relevant European directives, the organisation of the energy sector and the markets today is considered a key prerequisite for developing and attracting professional businesses and new investments in Europe. Finally a few more words about funding. All the above points to the need and necessity to provide sufficient resources for the future work of the new agency for its work in order not to allow the funds that the agency has in the future to be less in the mood than the financial resources that the Regulatory Council had in the mood. For this reason, I would like to point out in particular that the proposal to reduce the rate so far of 0.07% of the total annual income achieved in the previous year by energy operators carrying out one or more energy activities should remain at the same level. It would not be good for that rate to decrease, and that part of me to tell the companies but also all other institutions that employ highly educated, high-quality personnel who have to shape the future of the energy sector in a quality way. Following the privatisation of HEP, the establishment of an independent market operator, the liberalisation of the energy sector, and in this sense financing, or the rates used so far to finance all these activities, should remain at the same level. I think that after these discussions, those in September and these today need to be clearly pointed out that, in this composition, the Energy Regulatory Council has done its tasks seriously and responsibly, and I believe that in the structure of the new agency, continuity will take place especially in terms of persons who have done these jobs successfully and well in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in the interests of development, the entire energy sector, I do not need to particularly stress the recognition that the Council has received so far on the international stage in its work. What to say in the end is quite clear from everything the HDZ Club has said has no objections to the updated report and the Energy Regulatory Council, and will therefore support its adoption during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31900	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31901	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Energy Regulatory Council. This report of the Energy Regulatory Council is being considered at a time when a reform of the Croatian Energy Sector has been carried out behind us for several years. The HSP was against such a reform, and in particular against the system established with it, in such a way that most of the decisions of the Energy Regulation Council were actually made without the appropriate professional support that the Council had only had to have as an independent regulator through its professional service. Indeed, it is paradoxical to appear in these situations to wake up the real Croatian Fire Institute as a body that served as a professional service to the Energy Regulatory Council. It is therefore good that recent amendments to the Energy Act want to set up an Energy Agency to serve as expert support to the Council in this extremely responsible task of regulating energy activities. It doesn't matter who or how it regulates energy activities in a country. We can marginalize the subject. But the fact is that the price of energy, the security of energy supply, depends on the stability of the economy. It is crystal clear that what happened in the 91st or 92st of the Homeland War was to significantly disrupt Croatia's energy system, i.e. that there was not one single centralised control, a single centralised guarantee of the security of the functioning of the energy system in order to achieve a significant economic destabilization of the Republic of Croatia. In 2000, Croatia came out of the only buyer system, the only supplier and moved practically into an open market system. In HSP, it was not clear to us at that time why Croatia is so vexed in such a model, because on the government side it was then argued as regards the European Union directive. We have not found any reason to approach such a reform of the energy sector by reading this directive, as it was obvious to us that in some EU Member States, a system similar to that of Croatia, or that it is not true that a system of a completely open market works in all EU countries. However, as it is, Croatia has decided to step in this direction, and that is precisely why the existence of a Energy Regulation Council, which is a controller, guarantees a secure and even supply of energy to all economic operators in the country, i.e. all electricity market users. What we think is particularly important here is the fact that a regional energy market exists. This regional energy market, driven by the European Commission in South-Eastern Europe, is quite shyly mentioned in this report and it is in fact a lot of Croatia's fundamental step in one area for which we in HSP are not very happy to define in the way it is defined. So, a regional energy market is being established in south-east Europe consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo and of course the European Union. Observers are also Hungary, Moldova, Slovenia and co-signatures of Greece, Italy and Austria. It's all very interesting. However, when we talk about this market, we must not forget the fact that Croatia has joint power plants in Slovenia at the same time and Slovenia is not part of this regional market, so the whole market has half of the power plant in the country outside the market, in this case Krško and on the other hand is the fact that it is very difficult to talk about the free energy market in the situation while Croatia still cannot reach half of the installed power in all the plants co-financed in the former SFRY era and these are power plants in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia's territory. I mean, specifically, Obrenovac in Serbia and the Gacko Termo Power Plant in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that the Energy Regulatory Council is taking care of this because it is extremely hypocritical to drag Croatia into this market and at the same time do not guarantee Croatia by the creators of that market, so the European Union to reach its invested half in these power plants. They're not insignificant investments and they're not insignificant forces. Outside the Republic of Croatia, there are about two nukes in Krško, which Croatia has invested and which it cannot yet reach because it is our electricity for our money built. The existence of energy plants in these countries for Croatia is of strategic importance and in order to meet the Kyoto Protocol. In fact, each country signatories of the Kyoto Protocol has one upper limit of carbon dioxide emissions and the main emissions are the thermoelectrics. Therefore, if part of our quota is achieved through our former investment in the countries of the former SFRY then Croatia achieves greater energy production while saving its CO2 emission quota under the Kyoto Protocol and I therefore expected this report to be supplemented with the status of these facilities. I believe that the Council's representative will eventually address himself in his final presentation and on this matter. And the third thing I want to mention here is the question of JANAF, or the issue of transporting oil across Croatia's territory. We've been having a long discussion here recently about the project "Society" and "Adria" and there should be clean as far as HSP is concerned we have nothing against transporting oil on land as long as the pipeline is in good condition. The question is how well he's in view of the reported hundreds of incidents with oil leaks. However, we need the pipeline simply for the sake of Croatian national energy interests. The second thing is that we're in HSP completely against shipping oil. And as for the existence of JANAF, as far as transporting oil through land through it is definitely necessary for Croatia, and this pipeline must indeed be in good function. The second thing, however, is who owns JANAF or who wants to own JANAF. So whoever owns the pipelines actually regulates the supply of individual countries and individual regions with oil. He's actually the one who leaves the energy stream in a country. It is of strategic importance for Croatia, ladies and gentlemen, that Janaf remains in the hands of the Croatian state. Therefore, the HSP opposes any attempts and initiatives to privatise JANAF and such signals were also made by certain oil companies because it is of national interest to keep that energy highway in our hands. For Croatia, it is equally of strategic importance to ensure that oil supply is multipular. It is extremely unreasonable to depend only on one source of oil through the direction of oil from Hungary to the south. We must therefore leave ourselves the possibility of an independent supply of oil by sea because we will otherwise bring into a truly incredible situation, which is that because the pipeline has been leased for the export of other people's oil, whether Russian oil from Siberia or American oil from the Caspian lake, we are in a situation that we cannot bring oil to that same pipeline for the needs of our refineries even in a situation where we find cheaper oil in the Middle East or in one of the INA's investments in Africa. For these reasons, it is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia to keep JANAF in state hands, not to be privatised or that the entire JANAF should not be leased for only one single direction of oil. In addition to these remarks, expecting clarifications in certain parts of this report from the President of the Council, we accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31902	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to? Here you go. It's final. Mr. President of the council, Mico Klepo.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31903	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I apologize for a little earlier error in the title! Dear Mr. Cosic, dear Mr. Tadic, allow me only to briefly add to what I think is important and answer these questions. I think it is essential that it is extremely important from the conditions of the results, as a consequence, from everything we have learned today for the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which will work with a number of people, with much higher competences, with much greater obligations and with much more and more content obligations, with more projects to make this funding rate at least 0,07% today. This is one of the lowest rates for funding regulatory bodies in the region and in Europe. On the other hand, as a Board of Regulators, what they can do with pride, but in any case point out we have managed to almost realize the 100 per cent profitability of the requirements or our accounts, based on 0.07%, for the simple reason that this rate is accepted by energy entities, which they considered and considered to be the largest entities in this regard that are sufficient and that they consider that they can have that quality and relation to the regulatory body that they have as a consequence of a certain decision, a certain act, means involvement in methodologies, discussions about access, come debates almost all activities, tariff systems of methodology, participation and cooperation with the Ministry of Economy for the adoption of sub-legal implementing acts, there is a need to participate and suggest or assist in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes with fees for connections or tariffs and fees for the use of infrastructure networks, distribution, distribution systems, distribution, distribution, distribution systems. And there's one thing that's for sure if that rate would now decrease, it would be hard to go back to this level. Furthermore, energy subjects would likely be given an appropriate message. I said, I think, and I'm convinced that the Agency should not put that burden at the beginning and at the beginning of her work. If this should be done after a year when all the experience is gained, because we as the Board of Regulators had a burden or had a problem that our financial plans were not approved or were not given consent in time, and in addition we did not get the criteria by which certain costs would be structured and set. Unfortunately, I'm a very restrictive man, so of course I went to the lowest level, but that's not good. That's not good. I'm saying, we didn't limit anything about jurisdiction but standards, and we never got standards. Therefore, these are all reasons why I believe it is not good now to limit this amount for financing from the total income of the entities. We should also continue to respond to what the esteemed Mr Tadic has asked is a question of scope and scope of the energy sector today. So the regulatory body will deal with 35 billion kunas of the value of the sector. 60, 99% of this sector today in terms of the value of income and economic activities is covered by licences. The right of authorisation is the right and the right of an energy regulatory authority to work for insight, control, supervision and guidance. What I need to answer when it comes to ownership, ownership, control where and how the energy sector is going and what will happen. My answer is as follows: in preparation there in 2002 we asked to enroll in the relevant documents the right of the regulatory authority to keep records and monitors where the shares go, where the ownership goes and how the Council and the regulatory body are structured, or the Croatian agency must be impartial from the title of ownership. It's a task, it's a commitment but where and how concentration is done and why we do something that the regulatory body needs to know. Let me introduce you to the case of how my colleagues from Hungary transferred after the energy sector was privatised, after the quality of services and supplies had dropped drastically, there was nothing left to do but to force foreign owners under the Ministry, the regulatory body to invest and return to the quality level as it was before and we can only congratulate our colleagues who have succeeded, to link these three essential provisions and then return and actually ask the owner of the site to invest its assets, and only later can he follow the price hike and cover up or ensure conditions for free and uninterrupted trade. Or the experience of Moldova where Spanish owners simply signed contracts to raise a fee that was very low and when they reach 85, 90% that would actually raise the price, the state would raise the price. Not believing that this will really happen the state has signed the contracts, but these have arrived 90% very quickly and then, of course, you're looking for a price. I think we can do this before, that the quality of electricity, whether the quality of the energy sector is much, much greater and that we should not look in these ways at the resolution of ownership. In any case, the regulatory body must and I think it should be given the authority to monitor the course and structure of the market, i.e. the excuse of ownership in the market and in the energy sector. As regards REM and regulatory work on the regional energy market, structuring and preparing for the establishment of an energy community in the Regulatory Council region, there is no fully active role, or no, in fact, in a way today it is organised that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is coordinating these activities with other ministries and bodies. We try to help as much as we can with the profession and what we can on the professional side and preparation. We actively participate in, in the work of international bodies, coordination, seminars, however, it is a very systematic, very one, very hard work that requires many people. Until this moment, the Board of Regulators had no such thing. We covered it as much as we could, but obviously it wasn't enough. That all these things should be observed on the other hand, that the potentials from that are enormous. That the Republic of Croatia industry and all its monitoring, the accompanying energy sector industry and the energy sector itself have a huge potential and should take advantage of all this together. As far as JANAF is concerned, we are going back to the fact that our powers are up to the level of authorisation and the granting of a certificate, tariffs, upper tariff levels for the application of the transport system. So far, we, or the regulatory body, have not had any deeper jurisdiction, perhaps it is time for some things to think differently. We were going to do business and include this study. When we discussed the preparation of the financial plan for 2003, we were unfortunately told that this item looks too much and too big, so of course we cut it down and we couldn't really cover these activities anymore. So I say it is my suggestion that the regulatory agency be in this much, much more comfortable, more independent and more responsible so that it can answer both the public and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31904	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31905	The report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations, which are important for the development of the energy market and public services, is complemented by a detailed financial report for 2003. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. That report shall be accepted. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. Score. I find that with 101 votes and 6 abstentions, the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31906	We're going to the 11th. The report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in the period from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004 was submitted by the National Council. You received the material by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Since there is no representative of the National Council here because the mandate has expired, the explanation and clarification will be given by State Secretary Mr. Slobodan Downloader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31907	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You will be presented with a report on the work of the National High Education Council for the period April 2001 to November 2004. It is therefore a report on the almost four-year work of this body, a body appointed by the Croatian Parliament. Let me just remind you that this is about the highest professional body, the body that cares about the development and quality of the entire higher education system of the Republic of Croatia, which in this mission alone or in cooperation with the National Science Council leads politics and takes a number of measures to improve higher education. The reports you received relate to a period that can be divided into two parts. The first part of the period from April 2001 to April 2003 when the president was Professor Mencer and the second period from May 2003 to November 2004 when the President of the Council was Professor Havranek. It may not even be noted that during most of the overall reporting period, the Council acted alongside the former Ministry of Science and Technology at the time of the coalition government at the level of the Republic of Croatia. A number of different contributions have been added to the reports themselves as visible. The government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to discuss and accept this report. We estimate that the report is made up as a critical effort towards a global environment in which the council has acted in such a way as to be self-critical. There is no doubt that the state of Croatian higher education is dissatisfaction. The extent of such a situation, scale and reasons of such a situation are indicated as experienced by the National Council during the given reporting period. In the view of the Government, the overall report is aimed at improving and how the Council will act both in terms of the successful functioning of the council itself. This is the fundamental reason why the government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report. Please note that from November 2004 until today and today, here is the end of the first decade of February 2005 that important things were done on the trail of exactly what the report in question advocates necessary and haste. This includes a number of activities in the implementation of the Bologna process. The establishment of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, ensuring human resources and their assumptions for the successful work of the council as a whole and especially its agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31908	Thank you very much. We're going to a hearing on whether or not the committee reporter might be? They do, don't they? HNS's PGS club. And you've reached out to the board. Oh, well, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Education Committee. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 11th session held on 4 February this year The report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education. During the period from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Participants of the debate found that during the reporting period the National High Education Council acted mostly on difficult occasions but managed to carry out sensitive evaluation tasks for existing and newly launched higher school institutions. Not neglecting its role as a fundamental assessment of the situation or the need for higher education in Croatia. The fact that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has recently decided to remove obstacles and create spatial, administrative staff, organisational and other preconditions for the smooth work of the National Council for Higher Education has been expressed. Following the discussion, the conclusion was reached unanimously. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in the period from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004 Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31910	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. HNS club PGS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31911	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is probably nothing more important and important in Croatia today than a development strategy that must be monitored by a complete education system, and of course we must lean on scientific research activities to target them according to the needs of our economy as well as of course technological transfer. From the fact that in this hall, this important segment we're considering, the rest of us are only 15, it's not a good sign. But let me get back to the report. I agree with the Secretary of State that we can share the work of the National High Education Council in two periods. During the first period, the work of the National Council was characterised by conflicts related to the problems encountered. The key problem was the status of individual universities, which went into inadmissible hypertrophy and studies and programmes. And without proper working conditions. Due to the rather vague relationship between the National Council and the Ministry of Science, much has not worked out. And tensions increased when Minister Kraljevic decided to propose more radical changes in the law, and thus began a real reform of the system of higher education and science. The second period is characterized by the accelerated work of the National Council to address the accumulated problems and gaps in the processing of the programmes received. Overall, looking at the HNS and PGS clubs, we can conclude that we are not satisfied with the impact of the National High Education Council in the past period. And if objectively maybe it wasn't possible to do much more, I'll say a few words later. Nevertheless, I believe that the work and efforts of Professor Havranek, who chaired the National Council in the second part of the term of office, should be highlighted. And I really thank her. My colleagues and colleagues, before I make a few proposals regarding the future work of the National Council, I'd be here assuming that all of us here agree on some elements. First of all, we agree that Croatia cannot rely on an existing outdated system of higher education. Secondly, we also hope that the reform processes must be compatible with similar processes in the countries of the European Union. Thirdly, I hope that we all know that the comparative advantage of a country today in the 21st century is primarily, that it depends primarily on the speed of adoption of new callings and the creative response to these new discoveries. If so, in the next period of the National Council for Higher Education, we expect to be behind a better education system and to increase the efficiency of the education system. To advocate integrated and efficient universities. The grandeurs themselves are integrated by definition, so I don't want them here. Third, it advocates strengthening responsibility at all levels within the university. Fourthly, it advocates estimating the quality of teaching and research. To strengthen external and internal surveillance and finally to implement universal value criteria. No Rijeka, no Split, no Zagreb, no Vienna, no universal value criteria. To date, in our court, the National Council has done too little to reform higher education. The teachers of the Zagreb University play a special role in the process. It's the biggest university, and it has certainly the greatest responsibility. Due to its position in Croatian society, no reform is possible without the Zagreb University. And if this university is ready for real and serious reforms, I think that's the real question. But we also have to ask ourselves whether only the Academic Community is to blame for the slowness and ineffectiveness of this process. What is the position of the state as the owner and founder of higher education institutions. Have we also done all we can to contribute to this reform and to clearly improve the quality and efficiency of the educational process. We all know that there are no real shifts if the educational process, as I said earlier, does not rest firmly on the needs for the staff we have in the economy and in the public sector. However, it is not enough just to reflect the current needs of these sectors, but we must also include the human needs arising from the development strategy, so the needs we will have in 5, 10 and 15 years. From the very report by your colleague and colleagues, you can see that the request and application of members of the National Council towards the public sector have been incompletely completed. Some ministries have never received any single information on the qualification scheme that we predict will be needed in the next period. Furthermore, a request from the members of the National Council to be assisted with the necessary personnel, information and other resources is certainly not accepted in any element. Funding scientific projects is not based on the real needs of our economy right now. The scientific projects are not aimed at the needs of our economy or are based on the reform and strategy that awaits us. I will present three examples of how some others have done so simply and logically. China's first example. China sent tens of thousands of young people to school all over the world to technology centers, hospitals, institutes. When they returned, they created a human resources base for the country's further rapid development. For the past 13 years, China has been growing at an economic rate of 9.3% a year, and we boast when we reach or reach 3 to 4% of economic growth. A second example of France. In 81, I was there as a relatively young scientist. I was surprised. French Minister of Science and Technology said: "In the next few years, priority will be financed and in a lot of money those who will explore, what, fibrooptic fibers" then could not yet be amplified, the signal would be increased through them, the semiconductors and genetic engineering. They knew exactly what they needed next year. It was very clear everything else was in the second or third plan. Italy's third example. 30 years ago, a brave Italian minister who came to the head of the Ministry of Science and Education said, gentlemen, from today on, I am abolishing all scientific projects in the Republic of Italy, asking all scientists to ask me from tomorrow to ask our ministry to finance new projects. What's going on? In Italy, everyone was a reviewer and each wrote a positive report to his colleague. Countless projects that didn't serve anything. He asked that these requests be made in Italian and English. Not a single project was sent to an Italian review but sent outside Italian borders, and during the night it shut down 70% of the projects, so-called. Projects. The remaining 30% of their colleagues received triple the amount they expected, received countless scientific recruits, and in 10 years Italy became an economic power. As long as we don't start a team or about that way, we won't get results. We must coordinate our work well, and I believe that we ourselves colleagues and colleagues in this House can do more. When our committees concerning these individual segments of the total network sat together, analysed and proposed how to proceed. As long as we don't believe it, we won't have adequate results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31912	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31913	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is today the report on the work of the National High Education Council from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004, and we have no one present who has anything to do with this National High Education Council. That's not good, that's not good. This report practically refers to a long time, I would say too long and it is almost unacceptable for the Croatian Parliament to have such a major issue for the development of Croatian society, whatever economy you want not debated for almost four years, did not discuss as it says here formally from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004, or I do not know what date it is today, February 2005. If it is considered that this council was not working in 2000, then we are almost discussing a period of almost 5 years about an important problem in the Croatian Parliament. A problem that in some ways points to the ability of a society to transform, to progress, to grow economically, etc., because the assessment of the ability of the education system, scientific institutions is the best indicator of the long-term capacity of a society, one community, one company, one individual. And then that's something that deserves me to say a lot more attention than we think. We may be discussing some curricula and programs today, etc., about the Bologna Declaration, but I don't think that's even close to the level of importance that we face when we cross over these nearly three hundred pages. And now this at the beginning of a few interesting things. The first is said to be the report on the work of the National Council for the period 15 November 2001 and April 2001 respectively. November 15, 2004. However, I received one piece of paper, which reads roughly like this from the Croatian Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and writes on the date of October 9, 2003, no. I am saying at the 69th session of October 2003, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in the period from 24 April 2001 to 30 April 2003. That's something new, isn't it? Please, it is the original document of the Croatian Parliament. And what does it say in the conclusion? The Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes not to accept a report on the work of the National High Education Council in the period from 24 April 2001 to 30 April 2003. I'll do it if I have to leave someone out of it. It's certainly not what's most important, I think it's a formality, one little thing for those who deal with formal and legal matters, then I can get hold of it and say ok. The question is, does this whole debate make sense then? But I'd concentrate a little more on the report itself and some of the views of that report and I think they deserve our attention. Here's an insight into the state of the high education system as the National High Education Council sees it. I quote: "In further parts of the report we will look back on the numerous difficulties that have caused the National Council to lack adequate logistics, human rights, legislative and technical resources in services that support the entire system of high education. The idea that within a short period of time the National Council would come to an understanding of the state of the entire system of high education and its resources, the evaluation of higher universities under such conditions could not have been achieved. So the council only admits that it is unable to perform the tasks for which it is responsible." Furthermore, "there are no even reliable" claims the National Council in its report, "there are no even reliable and complete data on the number and types of different study programmes on the number of students of various categories attending these programmes, not to mention their success at least at the level of transition from year to year and time until graduation. There are no complete and reliable data on teachers by scientific and teaching titles, age structure, etc. There are no data on their actual teaching burdens or indications of human beings, especially deficit scientific areas, etc.", finished quote. All of this conditionaled further, I quote a new report "that the National Council could not win or give the public a full assessment of the state of higher education, which would be documented by exact and objective indicators. The findings of the National Council shall be based on partial data analyses obtained by the individual evaluation of higher universities or on the research of certain phenomena carried out by other institutions of universities, universities and individuals, as well as the exchange of direct information and experiences of members of councils and other members of the academic community. These insights together with some general statistical indicators provide specific guidelines for at least rough assessments of higher education. A few words from the council about the efficiency of study. It's an extremely important category. Although precise statistics are missing, there is a general impression that according to study length criteria and percentages completed, the higher education system in Croatia is insufficiently effective. The length of study is also unacceptable, ranging from 6.8 to 10 years for university studies. It's not just a question of university efficiency, I'd say a lot more, it's a matter of system efficiency as a whole. He further warns in his report on student motivation. They say she's mostly or generally weak. In the background of such observations is a group of causes that could explain sociological analysis, employment difficulties, and also a way of employment where there are often more important acquaintances than knowledge, generate part of the problem, according to this report. A frozen labour market as a social problem regulator. In such a situation, there is a non-productive demand for study, a demand that is often a delay in unemployment rather than a desire for real professionalisation. Classic production, and in particular technical studies, I stress this, especially technical studies that are traditionally more difficult to do with extremely electrical engineering and computing. There is poor demand in teaching studies, for example. in a natural science and math group. Further what I think is just as important to point out. Students often receive inadequate education in rented areas where they are guests and teachers, both students and teachers, and the education system collapses from the inside because diplomas are given for under-quality education. It's also what's called. Under quotes "traveling teachers" are unable to meet the overall obligations of their workplace, is one of the most dramatic consequences and is neglecting the creation of a quality scientific youth problem that concerns. Further talk is not only about study but specifically about the infrastructure that students in higher education institutions should have, means laboratory equipment, laboratory equipment, etc. And that's a fragmentary picture of what's in this report, and I'd say an honest brave grade that deserves me to say a lot more attention than we give her. The work of the National Council as a judgmental body. The work of the National Council as a determining body is extremely extensive and from everything that has been given in this report it is evident that it was faced with one flood, a mass of requests for legalisation of various universities, universities, universities, etc. And if a man were to look at that statistic, then he might conclude that the Croats are the very people in Europe who pay the most attention to education, that they are most intensively educated, that they may even have the best knowledge, and actually something quite the opposite is happening, something that is dangerous and not good. In this report, there are many of them in their contributions, among other things, and I point out this, quote: "Without twisting, it should be made clear to the state, the police and all the public that the need for a national consensus on the strategic improvement of the situation of higher education and science is necessary to achieve adequate social development and coherence with Europe." In the tables I'd say there are countless, some things might be pointed out. I'd just like to comment on a few of them. The National Council for Higher Education gave an opinion on meeting the quality standards for the establishment and implementation of studies, etc. issuing a permit for a whole series of different studies, but it is also clear in this one tendency to give certain areas of education I would say with the right, enough attention, but behind this there is no more important quality needed. Management schools and requirements for the opening of such schools were simply floods that burdened the work of the National Science Council. For example, the Croatian International Postgraduate School for Business Management in Zagreb, the Economic Institute in Zagreb and Kelly School with a passing grade, the High Business School "Libertas" in Zagreb, etc. In order to illustrate that intensity of these demands, I will say only the following. At only one session of 25.4.1996, you have a series of applications for almost the same or very similar level of education. For example, High School of Economics, Management and Entrepreneurship, "Hita" consulting Zagreb negatively rated. Split High School of Business Economics, negatively rated. Zagreb Economic School Mate d.d., positive. Dubrovnik High School of Management and Technology, positive. So almost one session requires a mass without being able to understand the real need and to see what quality is really done by these institutions in terms of education, giving new knowledge, giving new skills, giving diplomas. Certainly talking about education, not talking about this relationship and the connection between education and the economy that has been said here would not be good, I will point out just one example like this. When I arrived almost 17 years ago as a guest researcher at a famous American university of Michigan in Anne Harbor, then I was surprised with a first and important finding that university was proud of. He says, over the past few decades, that college has generated over hundreds of companies that have employed over 40,000 people who have had almost $2 billion in income. Knowledge, education as a product of new values, as an element of creating greater competitiveness, a better economy and a better life in Croatia deserves, I would say, much more attention. However, we have something almost unacceptable and contrary not only to these trends but also to European standards. We've got a prescription on our exams, we've got a copy of the diploma, we've got a payment of exams, and a lot of things that are unacceptable. Certainly, this report, I would say, is brave, useful, warning and I believe that very nearly during this year this important problem, the state of the system of high education through responsible and well-prepared report of the National High Education Council will give him special attention. From all of this, the HDZ Club holds that this report is something that is very quickly required by the appropriate response of all institutions of the Government, and especially by the Agency and the Council, and should be taken into account. More than that, I would say, it would not be good given the assessment of the real situation we are faced with and the conditions that need to be improved as quickly and more organisedly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31914	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31915	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This report, as many have already said, should be commended as a bold report and which is a realistic picture and of its own work and state in the system. And that picture for all sorts of reasons isn't good, and it seems to me that we're all more or less in agreement. This Report contains a strong criticism of politics, including all of us and our predecessors in these benches because it shows a certain, even I would say, high level of care in fulfilling those powers and tasks that the Parliament, government and other state bodies have according to the system of science and higher education. I'll remind you, appointments, laws, sublegal acts were late or not even passed at all. The insight into the state of the system is impossible, the report says, not only because they point out the bad technological bases inside. Of course, that is a serious problem than I would point out in the first place that this system is changing daily. Anarchically, chaoticly, and that politics, therefore, we all make a significant contribution here. Reforms certainly do, the verse and anarchy don't. Unfortunately, the tendency of the verse in the last few years in the system of science and higher education has been a very recognizable trend and is based on a volunteerism of individuals who once took up very high functions in the executive government, so I would say sometimes with legislation. A question has been raised here by colleagues from the HNS, which is a reform that would not support the University of Zagreb and whether the University of Zagreb is affirmative in terms of reforms or acts obstructive. I would, like, not this time a member of the SDP Club, but as a member of that university that produces somewhere between 50 and 60% of the total Croatian science, and if the right criteria were introduced, that figure would be higher if there were no dictatorships of criteria that were appropriate for one science or one group of sciences, and... I would say that the University of Zagreb is not only not only obstructing the reform but fortunately it was defended by certain crazy things that were planned in the heads of those who were unable to understand the reality and possibility of change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the tasks that we do some time in our normative optimism, unreal normative optimism, are put in front of individual systems, and thus in front of the system of science and higher education, are such that the damage to the system best shows this Report. Namely, the task put forward before the 1st, 2nd meeting of the National Council is such that 10 national councils would not make them in 10 years. Namely, ask the National Council, the Council of Experts, but not professionals in the Council's activities, to evaluate the entire system, including all studies, not even all universities in Croatia but all programmes. Let us remember how many Faculty of Philosophys, for example, there are programs in Zagreb. And to make that assessment is something that only one who has nothing to do with reality can do with such a body. And I'm sure the new National Council will also enter the expertise, well-intention and competence, no doubt at all, within a year of being here with the report facing the same problem. Because what he's been given as a task cannot be realized. Furthermore, we have put ourselves an idealistic picture of the reform of science and higher education which, I would say, does not exist anywhere in Europe. And we said in that and the European model, it's a Bologna Declaration, so we're in this Bologna Declaration, not perhaps in regulations, the law at last seems to me to be relatively decent for our terms, but in our political statements and programming statements. So we have set up some premises by saying that these are European norms where it is simply not true. And when it comes to resistance at the Zagreb University, I once again point out that it is not a resistance to reform. You will see, in what week the Zagreb University will have a more integrated statute than all the other universities together in Croatia, including, of course, those established as unique universities. That's what you'll see. That's what I think the university is proud to show. So the Zagreb University was against volunteerism and those efforts that simply had no basis for reality on the one hand, and on the other hand some at the university, not only at the University of Zagreb, recognized in the entire Croatian academic community that some times behind the reform objectives were hidden from the ambitions of university administrations to inappropriate centralisation in some way stifle the specificities of individual professions. And that is something that would not be worth it and that will certainly be washed up on the head of the Croatian academic community and Croatia as a whole. That this is already happening in part, and it happens in social and humanistic sciences, I think anyone who follows these two areas can testify to you. At least those two areas, I know less about the others, so I can't even plead. Inside that report are some disturbing data. For example, study data 6 to 8, including 10 years. Yes, it's worrying data, but I'll tell you something else. It is not a pain that follows only Croatian universities. You saw recently in Germany there was a lot of pressure on German universities where there was a similar problem. Personally, I think that is exactly where Croatia can show itself, take one step and reduce the duration of this study, where, as in the whole of the reform, we are in a very serious participation of our desires, ambitions and possibilities. We first realized that we wanted a lot more graduates, highly educated people. Why? Because the percentage we have in Croatia is small. The second goal we said in studying must be more rigorous and quality. It's especially hard to go together. Third thing we said, we need to invest a lot of money, etc., so study elite like this, and then we said and actually in practice study we treat as a social institution. Why? Because our economy isn't able to absorb the fit that doesn't finish the study, or even the one that ends. So we have problems, on the one hand, reducing quotas, on the other hand, when we don't reduce quotas or when we have quotas as they are, we have a lot of pressure to get as many people into the study as possible to solve certain social problems. Therefore, firstly, the state will have to clarify whether the study is to the extent that the social measure, in which the activity in which the social component does not play any role. Furthermore, we are at a crossroads between the recorded trend in Europe, and even more so in America, that science and higher education are linked to the economy, and even if they are partly structured as self-financed and market-oriented activity. On the other hand, we have efforts, and even from a very influential union that says not by chance this opening, then studies, and collaboration with projects with the economy, a certain kind of vision... that knocks down the level. So here we are in the same dispute between the different ambitions that we have. And I think the same needs to be found by the relevant measure and the tasks of the higher education council will, in the future, seem to be extremely important to me in this area. If we want all of this or a certain compromise of progress, if we want to include Croatian science and education in so-called education. European and scientific and educational space, we must take care of very important information that the number of students in recent years has increased 47% and the teacher only 3%. Some institutions unfortunately, I do, before I came here in one of them, who dies, because we can't collect enough teachers and we're not the only ones in it. For all sorts of reasons. It's about material resources, insufficient investment. We have the information, I hope that the Resort Ministry will take a step there, that the material costs provided for the work of higher schools are not paid or paid off with a huge delay. We have a national cultural shame that a unique high school institution, a music academy in Zagreb does not have a building. He's a tenant of the citizens' union. It is something that I think is no longer even a matter of the RES, but that this House should deal with. Likewise, the autonomy spoken of and interpreted by some as the autonomy of some university or administrative oligarchy, not as the autonomy of the university of scientists and its constituents, as rightly established by the Constitutional Court in its decision, regardless of what some did not like. He's assuming other things, too. He's assuming enough funding. Also, my appeal to the resolution ministry, don't take the lamp that was introduced as a liquid that should support autonomy the way some governments in the Western countries have done to excuse them for reducing the total funds intended for science and higher education. I hope that doesn't happen. Furthermore, I think the assessment of the courage of this report is correct and accurate especially to the conclusion that I specifically warn you about. There are attempts to influence the autonomy of the National Council and members of the expert committees in the performance of their respective tasks. It is something that should not happen, but I recommend to the National Council that in the future it is not waiting for an annual report to warn about such matters, but that it react immediately publicly and finally warn this Assembly which is its mentor in some way, the political mentor in carrying out its activities. There was also a warning about the binary system. I think the binary system is a typical example of our unrealistic expectations. Namely, the binary system assumes a strict and consistent sharing of higher education from university studies. I think any assessment of the suitability or non-comparability of the binary system would have to come from the fact that we have or do not have the resources to do so. We today, colleagues and colleagues, we're setting up universities. For example, there is no social university, no cleaning lady employed, no cleaning lady. And on the other hand he insists on some, from some circles that this non-existent university would have to be emancipated from the university. It means either this university won't be, because there's no one to teach that class on the one hand. Or that it will be filled with those traveling teachers without roots and without discipline as we had the chance to unfortunately see it at some high schools and which certainly mean the degradation of the system. In one word, looking at the report as a whole, the SDP Club will support this report because of its already right courage, because of its honesty, openness, and because of the fact that it very realistically reflects the situation in the system of science and higher education, and with the recommendation that the new council recently appointed in this Assembly be realistic in expectations, that we propose measures not that we would like to implement, and that there are no objective conditions for them, but to propose those measures that are enforceable, which the system can absorb, and that we do not bring us into some situations that we have in certain Western countries, then after the experiment, to take a step further. I would remind you that there is no need for ambition to do in a year what a country is organised like Germany said it needs time until 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31916	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given the number of also registered clubs and representatives, we'll be here by 19 hours to finish this topic. And we wouldn't be able to begin the National Protection and Human Rights Programme proposal then, so we'll start with that topic tomorrow at 9.30. And today, it would end with this subject that we're talking about. Honorable representative Zdenka Chuhnil on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31917	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education covered an excessive period of time when the presidents changed, or rather the presidents, in which time the Council changed the work space, but the laws on which the work of the National Council for Higher Education was based were also amended, which certainly resulted in powers and functions of the Council itself. The Council, as stated in the report itself, is set up to worry about the development of a higher education system, in order to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the functioning of the higher education system, on the basis of the evaluation of the study curricula, as comparable to the implementation of the education reform, in order to integrate the Eurointegration processes, and in particular to adapt the Bologna Declaration. Unfortunately, we can read from the report that because of lack of logistics whether it is a human, legitimate or informative structure that should give insight into the state of resources and trends in the education system, there are no databases with significant indicators. Thus, the report stresses that there is certainly no data on the number and types of different study programmes. There are no data on success from enrolment to graduation was already mentioned here that defeating the fact that only 38% of enrolled students graduate, that the time of study is indeed from seven to eight years, not to say that many use and a ten-year record which we do not know again what is true. There are no data on teachers by scientific teaching, age structure, no indication of staff in the deficit scientific fields. In 2002-2003, the Ministry of Science has data on 130 thousand students so that other sources of the same year would use 117 thousand students, which makes almost 20 percent difference and no better data are if we compare data on teaching and teaching and scientific staff where the number also varies from 5.5 to 7,000 professors, which certainly does not reflect the situation. With more than one decade of ban or restrictions on new employment on one side and on the other, the establishment of a number of higher universities and universities, with an increase of almost 47% of students, as my predecessors have said, only 3% of what we can say is that the situation is very alarming and we can best see it from the data if we compare that, for example, in the United States, a teacher comes to ten students, Europe uses on 12 to 15 students of a professor while Croatia unfortunately one professor wastes on 17 to 20 students and the relationship would certainly be worse if we exempt travel or visiting professors depending on who calls them. Therefore, without the Council's guilt, Croatia does not have exact and objective indicators, with the fact that the data of the State Statistics Institute, I quote, often show insufficient and even untrustworthy. The equipment of higher universities where individual work should be particularly encouraged is also insufficient and moves from a lack of basic space as we have heard about the Music Academy until teaching takes place in unequipped laboratories, the lack of libraries, that we do not talk about lack of computer equipment and other information resources. So I think that number of a thousand and a few more scientific recruits should certainly be welcomed, I just think that it's too late. Study programmes must provide topics for both the vertical and horizontal mobility of students, create topics for lifelong learning and the creation of their own profession and the qualification framework. Croatia wants to implement a reform of higher education this year, the implementation of the goals of the Bologna Declaration. Harmonisation will result in the above-mentioned mobility of both teachers, scientists should lead to raising the quality of education and pedagogical standards. So, easier recognition of diplomas acquired, as well as understanding the degree of education from different backgrounds. At the same time, do we want to know what education profile it is necessary for the Croatian market to bring forward a clearly presented strategy for the development of the economy in order to define its development objectives according to this strategy and to define that professional tasks can only be carried out by qualified persons and I think that the colleague Doric spoke a lot of things about it. This also implies a more quality definition of the need for university and university studies and to allow Croatia to talk about 5% somewhere, somewhere about 7% of the highly educated population moving towards the 25% weight in European countries. That is why a national consensus on improving the situation of higher education and science is certainly needed as a necessary condition for achieving adequate social development and coherence with Europe. And this can certainly only be achieved by an increased rate of separation for science and high education with which reference sizes can and must be in the European Union. The National Minority Club supports this report, but we believe that since 2001, when Croatia signed the Bologna Declaration, a lot of time has been lost in deniability and that it is high time to determine the rules, order, responsibilities and obligations in order to really in the autumn of the 2005-2006 school year, we start to realize the enrolment of students according to a new model that stems from the signed declaration and which should introduce more order into our higher education. Unfortunately, there remains an open question whether we are able to do this already now in the seventh month of the decision that the rectorial assembly made yesterday and whether the students will even know what they are entering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31918	Thank you very much. Honored representative Luka Roic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31919	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! And on behalf of the HSS, I will try to say a few words on the report and on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in the period from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004. Analyzing, in fact, certain parts of the report, such as the eighth page, which states that the national council as an expert judgment authority in the higher education system must be truly autonomous and exposed only to professional work of measurement but not to pressures from any of the areas that seek to influence its expert judgments. Unfortunately, examples of such pressures both on the national council as a whole and on its members and reviewers have been common. In view of the high role played by the National Council as stated in Article 132. The Higher Schools Act, which says, proposes this council of the basic overall higher education policy and a number of on the other hand of the difficult circumstances and numerous difficulties as a lack of adequate logistics of human resources, technical resources, the lack of information infrastructure that would give at least a basic insight into the state and resources and tendencies in the high education system and all that is expected of it, and this is the realization of a new concept of regulation of the higher-school system in which direct state governance would move to a system of car regulation with external control of the quality of the study programmes and the institutional functioning of the particular security mechanism and improvement of quality. And it's one of the more difficult circumstances. Furthermore, according to the new Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education adopted in July 2004, the National Council no longer proposes but only gives consent to the criteria and criteria to be established under the legislative acts adopted by the minister. The essence of the functioning of this mechanism, which rests on the constant evaluation of the results of higher universities everywhere in the world, is that it is not a mere exercise of control but a creative process that constantly improves pedagogical standards through evaluation. Furthermore, on page 11 of the report, the rules of procedure and the rules of play still prevail over the rules of the game based on institutional positions and political power, rather than the criteria of measurement, are roughly stated instead of built institutions of civil co-operation and respect for democratic procedures and rules of play. There is no respect for the laws and other regulatory instruments or there is too much arbitrary interpretation where it is always easier to defend political from professional priorities. Some such reluctances end in courts. A dramatic example is the Constitutional Court's solution from the beginning of 2000, but it was a naive view that the Academy community was provided with autonomy. On the contrary, autonomy is significantly offended by the way high schools are financed as the state's intervention role in high-school employment without being touched at the time. The lack of much of the necessary elements of regulation has contributed to the outbreak of the verse. Failure to reach previous consensus on key concepts of issues and conceptual issues is often due to institutional or other particular interests which prevents participants from looking at common interests and visions. How important it is to say and quote a declaration of knowledge of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The first step on the path towards a knowledge society is to develop education and science according to world quality criteria. The basic prerequisite of university success is the scientific activity at the world level of quality. Universitys must apply the unique criteria of world science and the emerging world higher education system and know with social assistance to keep enough of the best individuals from each generation in order to ensure their own expanded reproduction. Educational programmes should be continuously renewed, released from unnecessary relationships, outdated content and made more flexible, and provided students with an active role by introducing methods that motivate students to learn, explore and facilitate interdisciplinary study. It is good that the process of reaching Western and Central European universities, integration into European scientific space and the European network of higher education is under way. We have accessed the first framework documents such as the Bologna Declaration. In view of all the seriousness of not saying the drastic state in which Croatian society is in terms of knowledge and its application in development as expressed by our academics in the Declaration on the Knowledge of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art should be taken literally. Another part of the report is very concerned on page 15. The National Council, before the end of its term of office, did not propose to deny, for one high school, the depravation of, or of, a permit. For two higher schools, letters of expectations have been proposed to extend the deadline for removing deficiencies. One of these cases ended unfortunately so that the National Council by the High School was not allowed to verify what was done within the deadline. In accordance with its powers, the National Council has proposed to withdraw the authorisation. It is necessary to take all the difficulties and obstacles faced by the National Council for Higher Education and to remove them quite seriously. I point out that the big problem not only in this area is not being brought in on time and within the legal deadlines of quality implementing rules, so it happens that the law remains often a dead letter on paper. As it stands in the Declaration of Knowledge, Croatia needs to be drawn from a circle of less developed countries and to prevent its current technological backlog from deepening. This lagging and lack of knowledge is reflected in the difficulties that once-successful companies with a dramatic decline in export production then in the serious shortcomings of the judicial system, in the weaknesses of the state apparatus for, with outdated forms of organisation and operation and suspicion of corruption. The restructuring of the economy and the revitalisation of society at a higher level of quality and with a higher share of knowledge becomes an almost existential issue. It is necessary to change the attitude towards work and work in Croatia in terms of competence and professionalism, but it is also necessary to achieve all the preconditions in which all people, and of course institutions, and so the National Council for Higher Education, will be able to achieve their abilities and what society rightly expects of them. Only this can Croatia lead to a better future and we in HSS will accept a report on the work of the National High Education Council for the period from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31920	Thank you, colleague Roic. This ended the debate on behalf of the clubs. There's an individual debate coming up. The first is Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31921	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say at the very beginning and very clearly that I will personally support this report of the National Council, given that it is a correct report that is very objectively offering a demonstration of what the National Council was doing as well as the state of the system of higher education, and I think it is a good thing to link it all together because it is quite illogical to expect that the National Council should put its work in any meaningful context unless it looks back on one or that way about higher education itself. I also think that it is important here to point out that this last National Council floor, which was chaired by Dr. Havranek, otherwise the Dean of the Faculty of Agronomics, I can't help thinking that it was a Council meeting that was constantly in some kind of "stand by" variant. They were practically the whole time they were appointed until when they were not resolved, they were in, like a body waiting for some new appointments. The National Council was appointed on 28 May 2003. As early as three months later, a new law that envisioned the election of a new council came into force on August 15th. Then very soon the parliamentary elections came to us at the end of 2003 and then there was a change of law again in the 7th month of last year, and then simply this Council was asked by Minister Primorac to handle and what the newly arrived items so that there would be no delay in objective functioning, even if every 2 to 3 months, this council should simply be dissolved and appointed a new council. What happened in the last year was that through two occasions, tenders were called for the appointment of new members of the Council and all of this had ended together, and we all witnessed it sometime at the 12th month of last year when, with much delay, the National Council was finally appointed. This new council, the last one we appointed in the 12th month, we're going to be here in a few days to change the composition again, but one new member is changing again, but when it comes to that order in a few days. Secondly, I am particularly sorry that no one here from the Croatian Parliament has called on Mrs Havranek or the Rector Mence to report as persons who actually chaired national councils during this reporting period and to submit here to the Croatian Assembly because it seems to me that it is bad for the representatives of the Ministry with due respect to them to submit a report on behalf of the National Council because, in fact, only in this small detail there is one cover of problems that is later persecuted and with much more serious, with much more serious consequences. What's this about? It is simply that the law of both the old and the new and all amendments that the National Council has been identified as an independent body, I think it is important to stress that it is indeed an independent body with a fundamental concern for the development and system of higher education, which, of course, implies autonomy and independence from each type of political pressure. I don't think the Council did this or that before, I'm not saying that it worked under some kind of political pressure, but the very basic idea of the story that the National Council is talking to the Croatian Parliament once a year with a report on the situation in the Croatian school was that if you want the Croatian Parliament to force itself to discuss issues in higher education independently of the Government and the Nevosino once a year. So I repeat, I think that it is not good or at least not the happiest solution that we are now discussing something here with each other or discussing with the representatives of the Ministry because they are working on a daily basis anyway, and I think given the strategic importance that it would be very important that we as a Croatian Parliament, as the most strategic development decision-making body and representatives of the academic community here discuss and hear perhaps some other or different opinion, because the issue of reform and higher education is indeed one of those key ones that are looking for both serious and professional, but what is perhaps most important than any policy devoid of debate. Therefore, perhaps the appeal and leadership here of the Croatian Parliament may be a little bit more serious to approach such reports as they are quite tired in the agenda because they are very irrelevant to the Croatian Parliament, I think they are very important and that it should be given much more attention. Several comments, my colleagues, most of them before me, talked about the lack of a database and the lack of appropriate logistics. I also consider it serious and important. I wouldn't be talking details now because as I said about it already, I just hope that the Ministry has taken appropriate steps as in the report next year or for the year they wouldn't read again that this problem exists. This is important because it is absolutely impossible to make any strategic decisions especially those for which we want to have concrete justification if we do not know it is the true state of the system if we do not know the diagnosis of the system. One detail of the key or one of perhaps key points of the European standards is what is more important this is a question of the existence of an internal and external evaluation system to ensure, among other things, the improvement of the quality of the study programmes and the institutional quality of the functioning of higher schools. The fact that we must not ignore here is that the national council that should have been the top of that system of evaluation from its draft to this day from the ministry that has got the political set in that ministry has not been granted minimum working conditions, nor has it been said in the ministry again now or in the past, or what has been before not been seen as an important professional partner. And quite along the way perhaps provoked by some part of the debates that were before this sometimes seem to me when we talk about reforming higher education and Bologna processes to the public and not only this general public, but even the academic professional public, it is perceived that there have been some changes in the laws in the legislative regulation of higher education. And now that it's more or less all right and now there's something else we need to do that needs to be coordinated with Europe. It is not clear to many what needs to be done and why it is necessary to do so. I don't think it's too much to even conclude that it's superficial and in some segments and completely false perceptions that then cause us a number of problems. One detail I found in this report that unfortunately didn't surprise me, but I was kind of sincerely hoping that he was part of just my personal perceptions and that I was simply wrong. And that is that the motivation of students to study is very weak. I think that this information that we need here needs to be quite concerned because as soon as the National Council mentions it, and points out, I think it's an important factor that is actually a threat to everything that we want to do today or tomorrow. I now and if I had time and had ambitions I couldn't get into the reasons why it's so certainly asking for a broader expertise but I think it's something that the same ministry should also be particularly concerned with. Furthermore, the application of the Bologna scheme, which we again passed by passing the law in 7 months last year, is quite short of deadlines, serves in the European frameworks and is therefore designed to actually achieve visibility between individual programmes. Given the current discussions that are now at the university but based on the assessments presented by the National Council, it seems to me that we will not be able to meet these deadlines and that we will once again testify that this is being delayed. What I think is necessary to do is but absolutely necessary to allocate emergency reform funds for the job of changing in higher education. We here in the Croatian Parliament know very well that the 2005 budget relating to higher education of science is the first one which, in relation to the other budget users, has been reduced for the first time in 10 years. Even if we take this World Bank loan now, it can increase the budget by one percent, even though it is doubtful how much this loan can be used for these purposes since it is a strict dedicated loan. What concerns me especially, and there should be no delusions that only an increased amount of money will solve our problems. It won't solve our problems if we don't have quality programs that we can do reform steps. In that sense, I am particularly concerned, and I think we should all be concerned, the fact that Minister Primorac returned to the Treasury last year over 300 million kunas of unexpended funds. We've all been more declarative here, some of us more concretely advocated the need to increase resources for science and education. But then I guess our minister didn't know how to spend it because of the lack of programming, and I don't think that's good. And finally, apart from introducing standards that we do not need to act for the sake of the European Union, we have voluntarily agreed to this, the European Union does not force us to do so all together. I think we need to increase these shifts from science that it must also be one of the criteria of evaluation in progress. Because otherwise, without it, we're gonna be stuck on the one that declares ourselves a science. TO DECLARATE ourselves for development, and in fact, we don't do anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31922	I thank my colleagues, Lugaric. And I'm receiving your criticism regarding the President of the National Council that I agree with should be invited to this. Next is representative Jelena Pavicicic Vukicevic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report in front of us today that we can say with full right that it is correct, not only because of the efforts in the national council's adar, but because of the composition of this report, but because of the critical point of the key problems in the Croatian education system today. These are certainly insufficient financial and material resources, ineffectiveness of study, lack of scientific and teaching staff, application of the Bologna scheme, issue of autonomy and integrity of the university. Problems of professional studies and private higher schools. As well as self-regulatory and quality assurance models. But it seems, in fact, that this report by the National Council for Higher Education has, however, resulted in a new decision by the Ministry itself and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is what we had recently read in the media a few days ago in the decision that some 500 people will be selected in various scientific and teaching sessions. So ten-year restrictions in the employment of scientific teaching staff at all Croatian universities led, as we had the opportunity to actually hear up to one unsalted ratio from one teacher to 20 students, so we had the opportunity to hear the experiences of the American and European and the average. The situation is therefore recognised as extremely crisisous. Our minister actually very often responds that way. These school bags are too heavy, and they need to move their first day of work in schools, and because students at 14 can't define themselves for their life's call. You should also change the model of education from 8 to 9 years old. And so we have now come to a situation that the government and the competent ministry have decided to hire 500 scientific recruits, assistants, extraordinary and regular professors. So after ten years of real employment on the dropper, they are responsible despite the knowledge that because of the inability to employ in scientific titles, the number of graduates and the number of PhDs decided to hire 500 people, but indeed anyone who has read it a little more has to wonder where. I'm afraid in fact that such a multiplier system will be even more unquality. It will also employ masters and doctors of science without experience in higher education institutions, so without quality methodical references in the course. The door will actually open and suddenly a series of newly completed students who may not have any real scientific ambitions at all but simply found themselves in a generation that was offered such an opportunity. The problem that is related to this and also matters of professional quality of teaching dates back to the time of these restrictions in public employment and university should further oblige the leaders of the department to train professional continuity in continuing, research work, and in fact some scientific selfishness that is very often seen at our university is absolutely inadmissible. Often these are our authorities working on more colleges, more private high schools, and in fact, this situation without competition suits them completely. And the National Council for Higher Education warns us that a strategic plan for higher education needs to be developed, which means that it is not about the simple employment of 500 people in the existing system. There were also a lot of words already, but I believe that this is such a significant problem that it needs to be highlighted again, the Council has warned of an important lack of effort to find the most vulnerable model for its true improvement, because the fact that Croatia today knows neither its number of students nor its number of teachers. Again, as at the committee session, I urge the ministry to design and implement a system that would actually follow all of the above indicators that are necessary to really improve the education process and that a whole-life education model could be applied to which we are constantly calling. If we lack knowledge of the system of work, we cannot look at all problems in quality and the advantages of the system, let alone offer systematic solutions to the identified problems. We're missing the argumentation, and today we're actually just guessing about the state of things. And finally after this review of the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education, let me say just a few more sentences because I think this report has been a great problem, that in Croatia today we do not have one quality strategy for the overall development of the Republic of Croatia, and then a high education strategy that would then fit into this general strategy. And with the absence of these two strategies, the strategies of individual universities, universities and professions as well as the education system strategy remain entirely. Under the strategy here, of course, I mean not only the declarative commitment of competent institutions to improve the entire system but also concrete objectives in the field of education and high education, which must be monitored and increased in the budget, and of course we all hope for European amounts. The issue of establishing a national consensus on priorities in Croatian society and the education system from primary school to doctoral studies is crucial for me, and in my opinion, this whole situation should be addressed in a way that really starts from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31924	Thank you. On behalf of the Ministry of State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31925	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, a few notes about the fact that it may not be unnecessary to repeat in the discussion what should not be repeated. First of all, the general assessment that the contributions we have heard so far, whether they are part of reports or not, speak for themselves, allow me to say that they are an extremely valuable contribution to our efforts to get out of a bad situation, and in that sense I assure you that every criticism, just welcome criticism, is. Secondly, as far as data is concerned, different data on the number of students, of course, no problem is there today to add up the number of students. I think, unfortunately, it's just that in one part of the text there's talk about university students and elsewhere from universities, universities and high schools, so that's just the difference in numbers. But you're right, you need to level, you need to talk clearly about what's going on. The main reason I came forward was the new jobs that the esteemed representative has now mentioned. I think it's something extremely valuable. I mean, not to think, but I'm sure of it, and that's exactly why we're doing it. It's about jobs we called development jobs. So it's not about filling in existing gaps, it's not about improving the existing situation, it's about what should be, it's about development, and it's not about any development, it's about developing simply united in the concept of Bologna reform. With that in mind, I only remind you of one almost absurd, which is that the country has been able to study, train in scientific terms hundreds of masters of science and even over a thousand masters of science and now hundreds of doctors of science. Sadly, many of these people, as meant, fail to find themselves either in the economy or in higher education. If on the one hand, if the difficulties in the economy are understandable because of the unfavourable circumstances there, then it is difficult to accept the fact that in higher education on the one hand we have qualified people, and on the other hand the data now presented by the esteemed representative Josipovic, which makes the increase of the number of students 37% and the number of teachers seem 3% to me. Noting that the initial structure was also unsatisfactory, we had an insufficient number of teachers compared to the number of students. So, if it's clear, it's clear that the existing means are right, when it comes to development, to using new people on, in higher education, I repeat not for anything, not for anything but for the concept of development. As for the note that the ministry did not know how to spend money, it may be standing, but I assure you that in a given situation it is not about that and the bills that we fail to pay for the material costs of autumn are included. So I couldn't accept that criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31926	Thank you. Next is Mrs Ivanka Roksandic's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31927	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must point out and notice what is today in this debate and notice that this is indeed a comprehensive one report that is very correct and that relates here I would say for two periods, which were chaired by the two presidents of this National Council and that both of these reports highlighted a whole series of difficulties faced by council members in their work. And because of this, I cannot believe that up until today almost no one has heard this report and it is almost as my colleague Lugaric said it seems to me about 5 years of work by the National Council. Very difficult and all of them have pointed out to give a full assessment of the situation in higher education that I do not repeat myself, because of here above all I would say the statistics necessary for basic monitoring and analysis of higher education. It is certainly important to worry about the general observation from the report, which states that the motivation of students is generally weak as well as the unfavourable development of scientific and teaching staff, above all, the lack of such a frame of joy that the secretary of state has now said in its explanation, which means the employment of 500 new scientists, as he called the secretary of state, I would say to new recruits. Also inadequate teaching equipment and a basic space for teaching in colleges and high schools. The National Council discussed all the concept issues of higher education, and thus discussed the establishment of a university in Zadar and Dubrovnik, a study of the teachers of the parallelity of the study programmes at the Croatian studies of the University of Zagreb, which, at the same time, caused a series of polemics and conditions at the University of Split, which we all heard very well, read and know about. It also concerns the fact that the report states that the National Council is as an expert assessment body in the composition of higher education must only be automatically exposed to the professional court of measurement, but not to pressures from any sphere that seek to influence their expert judgments. Unfortunately, at least as reported in the report, the Council often experienced such pressures. The report also shows that the Council has been particularly concerned with the problems listed by the Stychi's establishment of new public higher schools and universities. The appearance of a whole series of higher schools, by opening various study programmes, I would say even the outposts of existing programs, and all before the adoption of a network of higher schools in general has caused a whole series of problems. I think that the new Council, including the Ministry of Science and the Agency for Higher Education and Science, must deal with this issue in particular because it is very often questionable and the quality of study at some of these institutions. Especially what I want to talk about are teaching and teaching studies for the reason that one of the two higher education institutions, one of the oldest higher education schools in the Republic of Croatia with a 143-year tradition is a high school in Petrinja, which has been acting as an independent higher school since 1997, but unfortunately it is not yet part of the university, although much less has been released from other schools of teaching schools established and joined by one of the universities. The success of education at all levels has been conditioned by good teachers and teachers, and I support above all to make an insight into the work of these institutions because they are currently in Croatia nine, working under different conditions, I would say both material equipment and staff problems, so it would certainly be necessary to make an insight into the work of these institutions, although the National Council has already tried this, but because of its absence of logistical support, I really believe that they have not been able to deal with this problem, but I hope that there will be logistic support, above all, in this Agency for Higher Education and above all by providing more funding for the work of the National Council, and that this insight will indeed be possible and implemented. It is interesting in this report, so far no one has pointed out and researched the mathematical department of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, which was as a model carried out on the professional profile of mathematics teachers, so we have received a convenient humane image that in the course of the course, it is not the result of the lack of high education staff, but of the fact that it is an unhappily employed teacher’s/teacher’s profession, which is especially conditioned by working in smaller places and cities, and I can tell you from personal experience that it is the most difficult thing to find exactly and professional professors of foreign languages, mathematics and vocational schools of professional subjects because such educational staff, high educational staff, unfortunately accept the best paid jobs. The overall work of the National Council in this period was also difficult, my colleagues said, because of the lack of space and professional staff who cooperated as external co-workers in the work of the Council because there are very few professionals in the Council. By establishing the Agency for Higher Education, the National Council will believe indeed get the necessary logistics for work, and therefore better working conditions and I believe that within a year we will hear at least these better shifts in the work of the National Council at least I would call these technical ones, because I believe that in this short period we cannot respond to the demanding work that this Council has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31928	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Roxandic. Next is Mr. Vice Vukov. Here's my colleague Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31929	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The National Council for Higher Education was obviously founded with great ambitions. It was founded in this report itself, for concern, and I quote, "For the sake of the development of the higher education system." It is expected, again, that it "proposes the basics of a common policy in the area of higher education" but that is certainly not all. It also lists the Council as having to adopt an opinion on the need for high school drafts, an opinion on meeting the basic standards of excellence for design and implementation of studies, etc. It is obvious, therefore, that the law provides for a high role of the National Council, but when we find in this same report that the appointment of a new member of the Council has waited for two years, and that according to the same report, the Council did not therefore work on the legally envisaged number of members, then it could be said immediately that not only could it not have been effective but ultimately, man could also be asked about the true meaning of its existence. In addition, the system does not act obviously from the fact that I quote it: "there have been such situations that the National Council of the Newspaper finds out that there is a public high school under way, and none of the key actors are using the National Council as a place of finding a solution, but real steps are happening again in parallel ways". If for nothing, and because of these facts here, we have to agree to the report again, that the system of higher education is insufficiently efficient in view of the length of study and the percentage of students completed. The report is also about so much of the aforementioned autonomy and integrity of the university, which is of course an old European civilization tradition, so it is said: Our notion of autonomy often does not come out of the framework of narrow institutional interests and goals. It's kind of understandable because petrified autonomy is just the other side, the kind of stalking powers that have an administrative political sphere over high universities. In the context of university autonomy, therefore, we come up with delicate but important topics about the impact of politics on the life of high schools. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity, and I'm going to argue that it seems to me that she's been experiencing her peak in our own kind of anti-political climate lately. I think from now on we should use every opportunity to say that a general attack on politicians, because from this here it follows that politics should again bear the main blame, which, to make the absurdity complete, therefore this anti-political climate, is being joined by politicians themselves. As much as these anti-political climates and arguments are in some ways justified, they have their sad and worrying looks, and it consists, I will say openly, in our inability to face the responsibilities of the democratic system and freedom of action. It should be admitted that the composers of this Report are aware of this syndrome because page 11 contains this indicative reasoning. The academic community is often ambivalent in relation to the state. Thus, the country is often wasted on a general and detailed development strategy that would free the academic community from responsibility to see for itself the global, scientific and technological development and global economic movements giving scientificly elaborated recommendations on future conukturnal humane profiles. In this way, it is almost openly recognised that such a strategy that the academic community expects from the state would have to be made by the very academic community, which is the most called, and that would be because it is said, which would certainly confirm the autonomy of higher education scientific institutions. But it's just being concluded, but it's rightly concluded in this text, in this same text it says, that kind of scientific work that the academic community would have to do would require a high degree of interfaculty cooperation, which, I'm adding right now, is my comment, which is obviously not because otherwise it would not have been mentioned in this context. So, look, the academic community doesn't seem to be able to resist the challenge of such a widespread game that politics sees the culprit for everything. I believe that today's political euphoria is actually evidence, and by the way, I say, evidence of the cross of our overall social consciousness. This report also mentions the student's success. Citing only the analyses that arrive to the Council by various high schools, I quote: "these self-analysiss are more or less detailed monographs of high school. Anything written in them could mostly only be data contributions with self-analysis. Most often there is a thorough analysis of students' results and performance." It may not be a good time, but when it comes to the results, therefore, about the success of students who seem to be not particularly interested, because it is here in this report, our higher education institutions, if judged by this claim, may also mention the fact that, some time ago, a copy of the methodical examination of the 2004 Philosophy of Education magazine from which retired Professor Boris Kalin spoke about the teaching competence of university teachers. Its fundamental thesis is that it is not the same to possess knowledge and possess the ability to pass that knowledge on to another person. There is, therefore, a teaching skill as a result of education, according to Kalin. And Professor Kalin, therefore, says this: "The university teacher has been understood as an undisputed expert and authority in his field, so only a student is responsible for the success or failure of teaching for the quality of studies and duration of studies." It is not, therefore, strange that these self-analyses mentioned in this report do not mention the results and success of the students. Let me finally give a good example of this theme from music. It is known that the Music Academy in Zagreb was also known for its own school of singing and the school of pianos. The founders of these music schools were already forgotten today by university professors, Lav Vrbanić from singing, solo singing and Svetislav Stancic from the piano. They were therefore the founders of these famous, famous singing schools and piano schools. It's interesting in their case, and then it's connected to this story that neither of the others were famous reproductive artists. But the fact is that they raised, created whole generations of great artists and singers and voters. So, a later sequence of events, when the practice was introduced that well-known successful reproductive artists at the Music Academy were teaching students, it proved that they had less success because as Professor Boris Kalin says, it is not all the same to know and know the same knowledge to pass on to someone else. If these were two different skills, and if you'd let me, I would have agreed with him a little bit, maybe we could go along with this thinking and think about his claim that, therefore, the teaching competence of university teachers is not high enough. But of course, it's for another topic and I hope there will be opportunities to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31930	Thank you, colleague Vukov. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31931	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Given this presented report, it is clear that the education system in the Republic of Croatia has been crying for reform for years. All attempts so far as to be well-intentioned because of the complexity of the problem have not solved the existing problems. In 2001, the Republic of Croatia accepted the Bologna Declaration, recognising the importance of education and cooperation in education between European higher education institutions with the aim of participating in the construction of a European higher education area. By accepting this Declaration, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to implement the reform of higher education in accordance with its principles and objectives and is currently very actively working on it. In addition to all the positive effects that action in accordance with the Declaration, the question should be raised as to what is the case with young people who have completed or have completed their undergraduate study before all planned reforms are implemented. According to the above, their academic destiny is quite uncertain. Taking into account not only the time and effort invested in the completion of the study but also the material resources invested, which, given the current economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, are often the result of the entire family’s investment, it becomes clear that these generations of young and educated people should not be brought into a discriminatory position compared to others, just because they were born in some wrong year or early year. However, uncertainty exists in relation to people who completed their studies 10 years ago or even 20 years ago. Unless they were further educated, and as we know in Croatia, there are many. In case of job change or cancellation, they will not be able to formally compete with younger competitors with the corresponding title, but also with smaller or almost no, but often with people who have significantly less or almost no experience. The second question that is also being raised is whether this reform is just a cosmetic nature or whether it will result in a real quality reform of higher education? It should not be fooled that the only changes made to this declaration are the number of years of undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Calls after the study, the introduction of so-called ECTS credit system or European credit transfer systems of the points system and recognition of our diplomas in the European Union. It is necessary to adapt the plan and programme to a three-year study. But consider that the provisions, that the provisions of the declaration are principled. It's intended to adapt to an existing state. There is therefore a risk of turning individual universities, such as the Faculty of Law into actually three-year vocational schools contrary to their tradition, but also the need on the labour market. In order for the reform to be successful, it would be necessary to enable a student of any university in the Republic of Croatia to be a competitive student of the European University really after completing his studies. The current university of the Republic of Croatia is not among the 500 best in the world, nor among the tables in Europe. When considering how much is invested in science and education in the Republic of Croatia, and especially how much this data compares to foreign, such ranking is hardly surprising. By accepting the Bologna Declaration, it is a positive impulse to seek to change the education system for the better. However, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia as a country in transition, a country that seeks to economically recover to join the European Union to make the reform systematic and complete. And above all, real and tailored to the general economic situation in the country. Not just some cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31932	I thank my colleagues Chichin-Shain. Next up is Mr. Zeljko Pavlic's representative. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. That's what ended the discussion. Mr. Taker, do you want on behalf of the Ministry? Here you go. State Secretary Free Taker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31933	Thank you very much. I would just like to repeat actually what I said before, I see this debate as a convenient opportunity to do as much as possible in terms of improving the circumstances in which we all work together, especially the National Council for Higher Education, whose work has resulted in the results of what it is. Such, therefore, humble in their opinion, and ours, are primarily due to the bad circumstances in which the Council worked. These bad circumstances are due to the overall bad circumstances in which the system operates. And if I may be a little bit of an open mind, I'd like to assure you that the step you're talking about is not possible without additional and financial investment. According to some estimates, for all that awaits us in connection with the Bologna Process, and a lot of this has to happen within the next six months, it will require about 30% more funding. It's the experience of other countries. If I may be so open then ask that, in the next budget, we keep an account of it, but not of course, so we are looking for what will not be possible, an increase in the total mass, but for changes within the structure. So can we all give up some of our local, partial, also valuable demands at the expense of what we all agree on together now? And I'm taking the opportunity to answer to the lady's advocates about the fate of those who have finished their studies earlier. I remind you that in the current law, we basically evened out, formally equalized the rights of those who had acquired their diploma earlier, these are graduates, you mentioned lawyers with those who will also graduate in a few years' time with calling the magistrate of law. By professionally calling the Master of Law. In a formal sense, we evened it out. And there's no dilemma. But the question is yours is really in the right place to help really be the same. That's why we have the formula, that's all life's education. It will be possible for him to be carried out according to our conviction, but if this assumption is truly assured, we will treat them evenly all together. I'm saying this because there are already signs and resistances like that. I think we need to make that clear in time so it doesn't happen. Here are some things that we've dealt with on a legal basis. I repeat what we have several times observed, a law passed in this House a year and a half ago on the trail of root reform, has pointed to the general objectives that we seek. Some of the weaker luck was in the selection of methods, especially the deadlines in which these objectives should be met. Remember this summer when we changed that law, we said the deadlines were too short. We're in a dilemma again, and there are serious people who say, maybe we should have extended those deadlines even more. These are all questions that we face when we solve practical problems, but it is a pleasure to solve them in the right direction, and that is what I would like to say in the end, I would not want this debate to end with a grim assessment that nothing is right. I assure you there are good things, and the best thing about it is that we know where we're going. When I tell me, I mean all of you sitting here, first of all, who have passed such a good law, I repeat a good law, and we who both in the Council and in the Ministry and elsewhere in the execution of the state we try to implement it. In that sense, I would also agree with the proposals that go along with the fact that, in due course, perhaps in the heat of realising these goals, it will be around the end of the spring, about 5.6 months we find time, so we ask the Croatian Parliament Presidency to put one of these points in at least as a report on the agenda to see where we are at the exact time when we are doing it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31934	I thank the Secretary of State and everyone who participated in the debate today. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, replica or what's the matter? What? Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry I didn't see. Mrs. Chichin-Shain, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31935	Here I would only correct one quote relating to finance, that is, when you mentioned that money is so immaculately important in that segment. I have to repeat, someone already today I think Mrs. Lugaric mentioned that in the budget of last year almost 300 million kunas remained unexpended in your ministry. I think that's inadmissible. And that can't happen at the end of this year that's coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31936	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow after the session. Tomorrow we start at 9.39 p.m. with the 12th point of the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic from 2005 to 2008. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-10-0.u31937	Report on the work of the Council, on the work of the National High Education Council from 24 April 2001 to 15 November 2004. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the National High Education Council is hereby adopted between 24 April 2001 and 15 November 2004. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that this report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education has been accepted by 102 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and two against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Republic of Croatia from 2005 to 2008. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, gender equality and the Committee on European Integration. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Vice President!
