ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37835	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on access to information was passed in 2003 and in 2004 was the first year of application of this law. This is a very important law that allows citizens to ask the public authorities for all the information that these bodies have, and hence, the public works of the state administration body and other public authorities. In the application of this law, the government adopted all sublaws. It established a list of public authorities which is due for 2004. Furthermore, it also adopted a list of public authorities for 2005 that has been expanded with new bodies that we have assessed in the meantime to be obliged to provide citizens with information. The list of public authorities for 2005 was published in the "National Journal" 39/05. As can be seen, it is a large number of bodies that are obliged to provide information to citizens. In the Central State Administration Office, we have also developed a sublegal regulation, so we have adopted a regulation on the establishment, content and manner of keeping an official register on the exercise of the right to access to information, and the Government has entrusted all the authorities of the state administration, and therefore all the bodies to which this law applies, to appoint a person in charge of the exercise of the right to access information and to create a catalogue of information available to them and to make it publicly available. In this report, ladies and gentlemen, we have summed up everything that the government has done in the past year, what the Central State Administration Office has done and we have submitted to you the data on the number of cases received, on the number of cases solved in a positive way or on the way. I must say that this office, which I am in charge of, is supervised by the application of this law, and citizens address us if the public authorities do not respond within the prescribed time limit, unless they use the possibility of suing the administrative court for the exercise of this right. In the last year, we received 14 complaints from citizens and immediately intervened that the law was respected. When this report was drawn up, a dilemma was opened as to how to conceive it. Indeed, someone may say that we should have made any complaint received or any inquiry to indicate who submitted it, to whom it was submitted, when resolved, but the ladies and gentlemen of 2004 the public authorities received 19 thousand and 600 questions. We, of course, also taking into account the economicity of the work of the state administration decided to give a summary view because of these 19 thousand 600 queries on 19 thousand 504 was answered within and positive, the remaining number missing from 94 was either dismissed or was negatively responsible. There is an effective protection mechanism against a negative response or a non-response by the public authority, which is an appeal to the head of the body and if the head of the body is deaf about the complaint, then the party may file a complaint to the administrative court. As for the first report, we have done it in the best possible way, we believe that and when it is announced that it will give a real picture of the right to access information based on the law that was adopted in 2003 and which is first applied in Croatia in 2004 and that this report proves that citizens are fully entitled to access information. Please accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37836	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the secretary of state says, maybe someone will say we should have published all the information, but we're not for economic reasons. In accordance with Article 20(3) of the Law, you have just been obliged to do so, since you were obliged to publish all information on submitted requests, statements, petitions, and therefore requests for information. So not only have you failed to comply with the law, not only have you violated it, but you are publicly boasting here before the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37838	The committee's reporters? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37839	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report at the 34th session held on 17 May 2005 on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2004 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 March 2005. The Committee shall, on the basis of its section of Article 57, take the view of the Committee's work. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee found that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report in accordance with Article 25. The law on the right to access information. In this respect, the Committee concluded that the report contained a review of the activities of the competent national authority in the first year of law enforcement. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37840	Thank you very much. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37841	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not support this report because it is a preambitious name for these two sheets of paper, which thus the secretary of state had the courage, in which the secretary of state, representing the Government, had the courage to address the Croatian Parliament. The SDP Club believes that access to information is an important aspect in achieving transparency of conduct, that it is one of the important mechanisms for preventing illegality so as to promote quality and quantitative good governance, all leading to true democracy in society. The law on access to information was one of the latest legislative activities in the past government and it somehow completed that whole package and set of legislative arrangements, a normative arrangement in the fight against corruption. It should be noted that this law has been adopted on the basis of, I quote: "until now probably the largest integration of the joint involvement of civil sector actors in the Republic of Croatia." So they rated just the NGOs that were gathered together on this occasion under the name "The public has the right to know" and brought the Declaration "The public has the right to know". They were gathered on a platform for adopting and setting up a functional system through which citizens should have access to information available to public authorities. It is also one of the ideal examples of how to pass a good act, how good authority should work with associations. So, he's just listening to theirs either, what they have to say, and not some sort of a premise from the occasion to the occasion. The government seems to be, it's absolutely visible from this report, which is the only way it can bear a name, otherwise it's not a report at all. On two, please, not two sheets of paper. We will, after this point, discuss the report of the child's attorney and the lawyer for gender equality, so you should at least see how it's done, how women do it. Conscious and detailed. Otherwise, this 2 list, this is called a report. The government, therefore, did not realize that the information was generally good, that it was general value. On the basis of the fact that citizens are just making their commitment because it is not only freedom to define themselves for something but rather on the basis of everything, which is why, then, what is it that achieves, or determines the commitment of citizens? In the opinion of citizens lately, in the last year and something, corruption in our country has, therefore, increased over the past year and a half by as much as 89.1 citizens have estimated that corruption in Croatia is more widespread than ever. So, from all this follows that Croatia is slowly but certainly losing the battle with corruption. Here's what Transparency International said that analyzed the fight against corruption in our country. He estimated that the amendment and adoption of a number of laws passed during the former government made a significant qualitative shift in achieving normative assumptions for more effective opposition to corruption, but I think, they say, it was not enough for most laws not to be implemented. So it's obvious that the laws don't apply. But here, as we hear from Mr. Secretary of State's mouth, it's not something that this government should be particularly concerned about, nor is it its simple, political discourse to even see something important in it. The secretary of state says they acted on the principle of efficiency here. I'm guessing it's a quick cut. Put together something that's faster, and that's something that, therefore, as our colleague Stazic claims, which is something to be boasted about. So let the political wisdom of ruling be seen in that. The law counts only a few dozen articles. There's 7 pages, there's 7 pages. And the basic principle of this Law is the principle of completeness, the principle of precision, the principle of generality. That's exactly the point. So, as only a report is drawn up that is incorrect, which is false, which is incomplete, tells exactly how the government and the application of this Law are concerned. This is something that when we go to Europe and when we are attended by certain guests and friends from Europe, we will commend ourselves. It's kind of like a suit that gets dressed conveniently, and then we put on old clothes and act here on the principle of efficiency. And on the contrary, therefore, there was a lot of time and effort to be lost here, but it wasn't done. Almost nothing the law provides for has been done. They are not formed, or the public does not know at all, because by law, every body should have a person in charge of contact with the public. Which is about to give answers. It doesn't exist at all. The public doesn't know at all. Therefore, any body of public authority or one who has prerogatives of public authority should have such a person. The ministry has speakers, speakers who are trying to avoid unpleasant issues to the public, to cloud things more than to explain them. And that's why the very purpose of this Law, or the spirit of the Law, was what these persons should exist for. The government hired hundreds of new people, but she didn't bother to name one person to do this job. You see, on the parliamentary issue, it took one MP two and a half months to get an answer. Let's say for one question that looks like this technical nature, but that outlines the nature of the government. How many new people in 2004 were employed in government by each ministry, how many for a certain, how many indefinitely? The same principle of efficiency does not speak for itself. So, to make sure, it just states that 519 employees and tenants are employed indefinitely, please. 106 employees and tenants for a certain period of time until it has been said at all in which individual ministries such as the issue. So that's how the government answers the parliamentary question. You can imagine how it answers the question of citizens who are not so familiar with the rights of this law. On the issue of the media particularly oral, if they are not in writing, then especially if they are not promiscuous, then the government is silent. Well, we've recently had word from our media that the government is silent about the financing of the defendant generals. The government is also silent on the oral issue of the decision, the government's decision on the so-called freezing of property to General Gotovina. Was it passed under the Law? There's no answer. And this report was just supposed to make up, so not just statisticalally how much it was asked, but what's most important, control. What happened when it wasn't answered? True, we have here one sentence that those are from the Central State Office, that those bodies that didn't give an answer were warned to do so. However, the Law knows not only the warning but also the criminal provisions. For a legal person, therefore for that body of public authorities from 20 to 100 thousand kuna, as well as for the responsible person, even the sentence of 60 days is foreseen. If anyone was responsible for what the Central Office did, nothing. Because we're a society that's found itself in a situation that needs to be formed and the controllers need to be introduced. Because it doesn't do its job. Let's just remember that crisis in the Supremes, for six months, that the Central State Office was supposed to answer the question and that the government was reacting at all when the regular elections came in time, so the people told you what they thought about it and your actions. So, the principle of complete accuracy, timelyity, is not respected at all and that the report is falsely clear from just this yearly report of the coalition has the right to know, answers to the requests for information only in November 2004, here should be commended by the Parliament and Mr President who only gave the answer at all, however, the Government and the Prime Minister to the 4 queries and the same coalition of zero answers, and that is not at all, so you have presented false and false information to the Parliament and are still asking for adoption. The government's Office for Prosecutors of the same coalition of NGOs two answers, two questions none of the answers, also from the Office for Public Procurement none of the answers, from the Ministry of Interior of 8 asked none of the answers. From the Ministry of Finance of 6 questions not one answer, from the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of 17 queries only from this association in November not one single answer. Also from the protection of the environment of 11 only 8, from the Ministry of Agriculture none of the answers 7 asked either, from the Ministry of European Integration, please also not a single answer. Thus, they are not broken, not only is it evident that the law is not being broken, but it is breaking the Constitution again, because this is not the only law that allows citizens and the media to access information. It should be noted, and we do not see a word in the report that 8 disputes are being held before the European Court of Human Rights where the state is being sued for denying citizens the right to information. It is also asked here, the question is, how many solutions have been made, because by law, unless the question is satisfied, the demand, and it doesn't matter whether the search was done in writing or oral form, where a solution should be written, how many solutions there are and whether the solutions are even made. There is no mention of this, and that is exactly how citizens can further exercise their right to access information. So here we have the full deaf administration. Then the question arises how and how to discuss this report at all, it simply cannot be controlled at all, it is not clear at all what this data is, you have the numbers here, saying how many questions have come, but what's most important doesn't matter why. If the information has been short-lived, is it by law because it represents a certain state secret, i.e. the citizens are denied the right to information outside the law itself. So one government, one government that holds on to itself and first of all holds on to its citizens, would never subsidize a report like this to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37842	Thank you. The club of HNS PGS representatives, respected representative Jozo Radoš, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37843	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a very important law for which the public almost does not know that there is, a law that has very high potential, it is a law that is somewhere on the trail of conflict law, on preventing conflicts of interest, these modern laws of this type, and while the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is very widespread in our public but without some great effects, we mainly deal with who has and not how he gained it and whether he has misused his duty, for this Law is almost and not known, and of course, with the lack of public interest option contributed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law has these so-called so-called laws. Anti-corruption laws, and I would say that the anti-corruption potentials of this law are at least equal to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or greater, however, and the potentials of this Law in the past year and a half of its adoption has not been used, has not been demonstrated, and this is of course, and I will then show and contribute to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the State Office which is responsible for the implementation of this Act. This law has yet another very important dimension he should allow authorities to be brought closer to the citizens, and to bring citizens closer to the authorities. THAT a citizen, through the instruments of this law, is familiar with what is happening in power, so that he knows what is happening better then finally and decides better how the government rules. This is particularly important conditions of general disinterest and this has been shown by these local elections, in which only 1/3 of the citizens have come out, quite the opposite of good tendencies in developed democracies where local elections, or often local elections have more citizens than they do in parliamentary or other elections, because the topics that local elections deal with are actually closer to them. So this general loss of interest in politics, it's turning politics into some kind of frozen interest one of the instruments that can change it by doing long-term work is also this law, or its instruments, but unfortunately we haven't gone from zero in the past year and a half. We've just begun formal setting up assumptions for law enforcement, and with too much delay, I don't know how it can happen that the government breaks the law so often without anyone bearing sanctions, there's almost no law in which all deadlines are respected. If the Croatian Parliament says in some law that something must be done within 6 months then it must be done within 6 months. On such clear examples, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot break the law. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia violates the laws, which we can expect from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who have a kind of natural interest in not respecting the laws and the state must force them to do so. When I talk about this violation of the law, here's an example. The list of public authorities for the past year was due to be published on 30 January to 31 January and published in "The People's News" 146, so on 20.10, so almost ten months late. The rules on the keeping of the registers were adopted on 1 October 2004 and should be adopted six months from the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. in May of that year. So, again with five months late. That's very clear. These are not huge things but it is a very clear violation of the law committed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or its state office in charge of the implementation of this law. The fact that things are bad is that despite the letters of the Office of State Administration that implemented this law on 15.10 last year, almost a year after the law came into force, the public authorities are obliged to do what they were obliged to do under the law before that, and that means that they name people for information, to form catalogues of information, etc. So, this is an example of how even these formal assumptions that such an important law could function are not set up in the right way and of course in such circumstances we cannot know how the law is implemented, what its potentials are, where the law will have real difficulties and then, of course, under such conditions we cannot even try to propose a quality change of law because the law has de facto not started to implement. All of what the report says here is extremely formal and that range of 19 thousand information or requests is too small for one country. The Republic of Croatia has a large number of public authorities. Only 5 hundred and 50 units of local self-government and 19 thousand are absolutely not a large number without saying that the good part of these requirements was the fruit of the activities of associations that wanted to propagate the law, so they themselves produced requests for information to see how the authorities would react. These are not largely the demands of the citizens themselves and of course this law is because of the citizens and not because of associations, of course, and also because of associations in the final but mainly because of citizens and it is not the law for the media, for journalists. The real media, the rights of journalists are above this law. This is a law for legal and physical persons and it shows, in fact, how bad we stand in this sense. This practice continues, unfortunately, this year. The list of public authorities for this year was also to be adopted or published by 31 January of this year and the government adopted the list of public authorities only 18.3. Therefore, even this year with the publication of a list of public authorities that are obliged to comply with this law, it is almost two months late. I guess it was posted right after it was adopted, so again with the delay. In such circumstances, we cannot even see what the weak sides of the law are because the law has a thousand, not a thousand, but of course a large number of problems it opens. It is not clear how this law will operate in relation to other conflicting laws, the Data Protection Act, the Data Protection Act, etc. So only when it enters that aspect, when those two laws conflict with each other, will we see what the practice is, and we will be able to go in the direction of change of one or the other, or the third law. This is absolutely not possible because we don't even have a report on what problems are real in law enforcement. It is said that there were 20 requests, that 15 were accepted, that 5 were rejected. But what problems have arisen? Why were those five rejected? What is the quality of those who have been accepted, we cannot know from this report. Therefore, we cannot even know the quality of this law or its implementation. The law is relatively good, because it is a typical law similar to many laws in many countries that have been passed over the past 15 years, but what kind of implementation it is, of course, a big question. Here, to illustrate the extent to which the law is actually used poorly, and I repeat, the government has contributed and, by its delay, with its obligations to be carried out. Out of 269 municipalities, the report was submitted, meaning that around 170 municipalities did not submit a report on the implementation of this law and that 269 municipalities received only 46 applications. This means that out of 420 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia only every ten municipalities received one single request for information. That means that this system isn't working yet. With cities, the situation is similar. 188 requests have been received. So if we have 120 and a few cities, then only around the city for one whole year has one and a half requests arrived. That means that this system isn't working. The 21st county is only about 40 requests, so two requirements throughout the county throughout the year, which, of course, is not enough again. And our courts in which we know the state of the law where it will be the most prominent implementation of this law because it will be the conflict of the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Personal Data and of this Law, so it will take the most effort to bring the spirit of this law to justice. Our courts in the past year have not received a single request for information and, of course, it says that this law is being misimplemented. And despite the fact that I think that the regular information activity of the Croatian Parliament works relatively well and is getting better and better, here I especially think of our website. The report on the Croatian Parliament shows that this law is not actually implemented at all. The Croatian Parliament acts in terms of what this law requires of the Croatian Parliament and of every other institution, the Croatian Parliament acts as if this law were missing. In terms of information, it works under earlier rules, by earlier laws, and that's not an idea. The idea of this law is that, with regard to informing citizens and public figures, some new rules are laid down and, of course, all earlier reached by the model of public information, media, etc. They stay. So in this report on the Croatian Parliament, it is only a symbol, it is not an idea at the Croatian Parliament to see how this law works but in the municipalities, it is in the courts that this law must be the law of mass application and the Croatian Assembly is in this very symbol. But if the Parliament does not function in that sense, then, of course, it is difficult to expect that municipalities and cities will function. It's said there's no centralised system. What does that mean? This means there is no information officer in the Croatian Parliament. If there is an information officer, what is the obligation under the law, then there must also be a centralised system of information. You don't know how many questions came in. That means there's no official record. For each request to the public authority, it shall be registered in the official register of the information. It's said here that you don't know how many questions came in because there's no record of short answers. What does that mean, a short answer? The short answer can sometimes be much more content than some long answer and most often it is so that short answers are actually more important than long answers without saying that on our information regularly given by the Croatian Parliament you do not have one very important provision of the law, which is that in the catalogue of information that public authorities must publish there must also be a tender documentation for public procurement tenders. This is a very important provision of this Act, all the bodies of the public authority, would have to get to know the public regularly, not on their demands, regularly on public procurement tenders, it is not done by the Croatian Parliament, so I suppose it is difficult to expect other public authorities to do so. Here, therefore, these are the reasons why we believe that this Law that has within it, therefore, I repeat the great anti-corruption potentials, that this Law has not been implemented properly over the past year, with formal assumptions for its implementation being delayed for more than half a year, and the number of information, the number of requests, and in particular the report that speaks of the quality of these requirements, the problems that are being opened are virtually not indicated in that report. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, the club of representatives of the CNS and the PGS will not support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37844	Thank you. HSP Club, Honorable Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37845	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The HSP Club will take this Report to the knowledge, and according to us the shortest assessment of the implementation of this Act would be that public authorities act on the principle of "silence is gold". We've seen this in countless examples and countless cases. And yet I must point out on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that Article 46 is the right. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is regulated, "everyone has the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public bodies and to get an answer from them". Therefore, it is nothing new that this Law was adopted in 2003, this problem has been present since the establishment of the Croatian state and we must be aware of the fact that it must be done much more to ensure that information is made available to citizens and legal persons, or to natural and legal persons, but we still need to make one difference that we are also a country of paradox. On the one hand, information that should not and should not be made public is available. Of the state secrets, military secrets, official secrets, business secrets, and information about the rights of citizens, physical meanings of a person, legal persons, about the course of the proceedings, whether it is a administrative procedure, a judicial, some other procedure, they are inaccessible. Therefore, it is evident from all of this that those who act on the principle that citizens must have available information ending in The Hague, for example. The case of journalists who published data that had already been published in other countries, in the United States, they end up in The Hague. So it is obvious that the authorities are also acting on the principle that "the silence is gold". As for the quantity of the Report, I disagree with the SDP Club, it might be good for us if this report were brief and clear, if there were maybe five sentences to be said, each citizen, every legal person who requested the information was given information and satisfied with that information. So it doesn't have to be 30, 40 pages in the report, we've seen, and whoever reads the Ombudsman's work reports, whether for children or for sexes, be careful there's a lot of pages and basically nothing's been said. There's a lot of pages, nothing's said. Someone for 88 items writes 40 pages, or for 15 items 40 pages, and it is not visible what is done and how it is done. Therefore, the fact that the report is brief does not necessarily mean that it can be bad, but in this case, unfortunately, it is true. Now, as far as this part is concerned, considering the provision of Article 46. The Constitution raises the question of how, then, of the 35 proposed bodies, only 23 are included in this list. If a constitutional provision is taken that everyone has, it means the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public bodies and to get an answer from them. So there is also one problem, so, and also itself, both theoretically and practically, we know what information is and especially to have information at the right time. And we here must first of all advocate that this form of obtaining information from natural and legal persons from public authorities should be ensured and that citizens in such a way have one of the direct, or indirect forms of supervision of the work of the public authorities. And it is likely that, at all such stages, measures will be made to combat corruption, the silence of the administration and all other things. Therefore, all this is about a necessary need for reform, both local administrations themselves and state administrations and all public services, and on the principle that they must all understand that they are not in all these services for themselves, but that they are in the function and service of citizens. When we try that principle and carry it out in action, then we will have a completely different situation and a whole other picture. And then we'll get back to the part that's very important that citizens don't get half the information or even misinformation. Because the situation itself is clear to me, we representatives of the Croatian Party right have office days and we are familiar with a lot of cases that citizens can not get information at all in the city at all, how, both in the municipality and in the ministries but rather, it revolves around them in a round of counters 25 to 26 as in Kafka's process and ultimately they do not get information at all but is going to treat the citizens so that he gives up his own request. It is the same situation with necessity along with this institution of providing and availability of information, providing legal assistance to citizens at the level of municipalities, cities, so especially at the level of central government. So by such means we will slowly achieve the part that begins to operate the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and that the public has full, full influence on the work of the body of public authority. Therefore, in conclusion, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, we take this Report to the knowledge and draw attention to the Government and to all of us, look at, let's just say, we citizens have the right to ask questions via e-mail, so see how many of you are not responding, you have them on the Croatian Assembly's website. So, let us and our example contribute to answering citizens’ questions by e-mail, and in this way we will also seek the responsibility of the state administration to respond in time. And here we have to agree to really start to take sanctions against irresponsible persons because obviously this way, if there are no sanctions at all, and there have been cases where they are applied, well, there should be some things to be and can't be given, because in some cases it's exactly something business secret, something is a personal secret, there is now, normally and one problem that everyone would like to know and what they couldn't get but then they need to be answered in such a way and not to be justified, there is a demand for data that can't be given to citizens, so it's not responsible or not answered in time or in time, and the worst cases are when it's responsible, so eventually it turns out that it's disinformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37846	Thank you very much. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37847	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the first time in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we have a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. I must remind you, of course, that the Law on the right to access information was passed back in 2003 and it is unfortunate that at that time the Republic of Croatia was the only country in Southeast Europe that did not have such a law. And with this report, if we can call it that, maybe we show it in the same way as we did then our relationship to one of these, to one of these problems, that the government finally becomes public in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that one report that has three pages, and we should practically have a report from all institutions of the Republic of Croatia, means from the Croatian Parliament, the Government, ministries, cities, municipalities, and so on, it is simply impossible for one such report to be all on three pages. So maybe we can think of a saying that it was not to give MPs the knowledge of the problems and what our citizens were asking our institutions about. Well, as they say, and that report is so small, and there's poison in the small bottles. However, I must say that we in the IDS were very pleased when this Law on Access to Information came before MPs because we can say that we were not wrong and that we want everyone in the Republic of Croatia to have open and public authority. Our citizens have the right to know what they decide, who decides and why does it cost you? Citizens have the right to gain insight into official information and documents and everything they need because for us in IDS, the relationship between government and citizens is a relationship of partnership and trust. Therefore, the availability of information in the possession of public authorities is a clear right for citizens. Today's European public administration standards mean predictability, legality, accountability and efficiency of public authorities. Because when citizens trust public officials they have the right to demand responsible behaviour of the authorities in each segment. But as far as the report itself is concerned, if we can call it that, under quotes, we must commend the Central State Office, which has succeeded in making a few pages a shrub, uninteresting, fact-finding report because apart from the figures, nothing can be read out of it. It seems to us that the information given by the public authorities, and to call them, under quotes, is just plain information again, I don't think that information is a problem. Problems arise when looking for information concerning large and questionable contracts that have been concluded far from the eyes of the public and remain protected from the public. One of the best examples of such a contract is a contract concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Deutsche Telecom, which, even to this day, with the greatest demands and the greatest pressures and even the lawsuits did not become completely public. We've been denied information about that contract, so I assume it's harmful because otherwise it would have been published a long time ago. In the view of the IDS, such a contract should be a public document. In this case, even the Administrative Court has passed a final ruling rejecting the request for access to information and is also the best evidence of the separation of legal provisions and their application by courts. I received information that the citizens' association "Luiris Protection" filed an appeal to the Administrative Court because they were denied information. In the judgment, of course, which was taken to the harm of the association. That's all the information that's been kept secret. I am afraid that this document will also end up in the Strasbourg court and that Europe will again give us guidance on how, how to develop our democracy in the Republic of Croatia. The biggest tragedy is that such contracts are not familiar with citizens even after the signing, let alone that the state should inform the public about its intentions to have and know the right information and should respond and give its opinion to those who spend their money in time and that would be the only democratic solution. Perhaps we should commend some units of local self-government after all. I think of some cities in the Republic of Croatia who personally realized that the laws in the Republic of Croatia should be implemented in contrast with some other institutions, which had been said a long time ago as many institutions do not respect their own laws. In order for citizens to be informed in time and, of course, as little as possible of these requests for access to information, some cities have developed a cooperation strategy with citizens who are being implemented in such a way as to form joint working groups with representatives of the city administration, local committees and local NGOs. On top of that, citizens are regularly admitted. Informative lenses, information points, web portals, regular press conferences of city administrations and other things that are in the interest of citizens have been made. This is all I have listed, I believe, that it should also be done at the state level because this is all in order to develop double communication between citizens and public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37848	Thank you very much. HDZ Club. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37849	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's looking at a little bit of this report, but the figure itself is that of 19 thousand 600 requests, 19 thousand, 19 thousand 504 is answered quite fascinating. If we got the material for that 19 grand 504 information, it'd be me thinking a bigger book. But right now, MPs can use the right to information and ask for everything they're interested in. It is normal to expect a 100% effect, but sometimes it is very difficult to answer because of the indefinity of the question. But I believe that most of us who have been exposed to such questions for years know that very well. I believe that even a number of citizens, institutions may not even know that they can use the right to access information. If there seems to be too little demand for the delivery of information on local self-government, we can observe it differently. At the end of the line, local self-government is quite affordable and answers directly to questions and it would be very strange actually if the number of written information was large because still the people working there are available. And my speakers would probably explain in that way why the Office of the President of the Republic didn't get any questions. Well, I guess that's where the president's available. In all 2004, there are only 13 complaints for the denial of information, and the fama on the ineffectiveness of the administration is constant. There's always talk of inefficiencies like this, like that. I think that number is very small, but that's where the government reacted. Therefore, it should be settled. There is also an increase in corruption, and the people ask nothing. So for the fifth time I think in this House I mention and note that what we talked to people in State Statistics, where they claim that all official reports in international bodies are at least two years old, so if the corruption in their reports is large, then I wonder who was in power two years ago? And finally, I am sure that the number of requests made by citizens and institutions for information will be smaller, because a large number of information on this will certainly work to be accessible on the Internet. The HDZ representative club will also accept this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37850	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37851	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By passing the Law on the right to access information in 2003, Croatia took another step in terms of the adoption of those legislative solutions which should appear to have been very simple, which, even during the debate in this House, were almost unanimously supported, which were almost smooth in this House. But absolutely and then it was clear and evident that the implementation of this law, the harmonisation of this law with the opportunities of society will be far more difficult. And this report is simply in one such break between the laws adopted in 2003 and this first report that should have given an evaluation of the effectiveness of that law, but it should have also given an assessment of the situation that took place, an assessment of the situation to try to illustrate with certain measures that should improve this situation and that over certain years we see how effective it has been to raise the quality of the service provided by the state government, which provides local and regional self-government and the level of satisfaction that citizens as service users have. Unfortunately, the report does not show that. We didn't expect to get the precision of certain objects, we didn't expect to have a representation of individual cases, but we expected one assessment of the situation. Because we believe that the first report should have provided a certain report and this situation, so whatever it is, should be based on actual facts and try to give an answer to how to arrange for a citizen to be satisfied, to have the right to access information and to be timely, to be in his interest and to be able to use that information to satisfy his civic, civil and human needs. Because this law and all this information that needs to be made available to citizens does not serve to satisfy the form. They do not serve to show we have fulfilled a 10-demand diagram or 10 actions and citizens should be satisfied. No, I don't. They serve to make life easier for citizens in everyday life, to get equal rights that others have, to get informed in the school classes for next year, that what is prescribed in the way students are received is indeed and implemented, that there are no first and second-class students, that there are no first and second-class citizens. Therefore, citizens expect the efficiency that this law, like all other laws, should have done. Therefore, the main questions raised in the report and in the debate on what the law has done since its adoption to this day can be put into some two levels. First level of economic level. Does the right to information also mean the right for our citizens to know very one banal thing, what kind of meat we eat today? It is said that at this moment, the largest amount of beef comes from Poland, to be declassified by domestic meat, to be sold under June. Do citizens have the right to know what they eat? Do citizens need to know what they eat, what food they eat and whether they pay them properly? We leave aside our interests of the Croatian economy which should be fought for the greater presence of domestic products. Therefore, it is a broad position of action of this law. It also has a normative but also a moral ethical character which, of course, cannot be reached by passing laws, but a permanent struggle for the right of a citizen not on the information as some zero content, but as an information that in its content will strengthen the quality of each life and establish a single order in society and within that order anyone who does not respect it will be characterized. Therefore, the economic aspect that should not be banalised like this, but is very important for the citizens. With certain political and social aspects that have been very clear in recent days, even in countries with a very developed democracy that already has a centuries-old tradition in fostering democratic life. And today, in a referendum in the Netherlands, there was one question on the media whether the referendum is the best form of statement, whether it is necessary, whether it is necessary. This led to a ten-day debate, before that in France, now in the Netherlands, trying to compare whether decisions taken in a referendum are the result of a real situation or whether they are through certain media or political tendencies the result of the current relationship that is reflected in the long term as a global attitude. Of course, the referendum is the clearest, purest and most faithful expression of the will of the citizens, regardless of what condition and with which coincidences he connected. However, this and this trail of political aspects need to answer the question of how and how, how publicly and transparently they have been made and political decisions are made and how citizens participate in quality information regarding these political decisions. It is equally about the current issues of relations with the European Union, with all the problems they face, equally regarding relations with The Hague, General Ante Gotovina, privatisation, a public private partnership that we have established in the case of "Sunish Hvar" without legal basis. The same is true of all those events that we can put under the public eye and the transparency of political decisions. The other thing about fair competition is political parties. Also something that citizens are rightly sensitive to, because they are directly involved in. Whether buying councilors after local elections is something that belongs to the democratic world or not, whether overruling the voter's will is the latest achievement in democracy or not, what relations between political partners are, is whether or not it is possible to lie to citizens about how much it was spent in certain elections. These are all issues that citizens are interested in where they are directly involved and where they are also exposed to the risk of the costs of all of this. Third, empowerment of institutions such as Parliament which is a cap of all interests and where citizens' representatives are rightly in charge of caring for citizens and deciding on their behalf and affecting not only political decisions and laws but also overseeing the executive power at all levels. This is the story of how consistent the decisions we make in this Parliament are through certain decisions, laws or what is directed towards the Government are carried out in time. If that's not what we're doing, do we give the citizens a reason that they also say they shouldn't follow the law as "drunk" etc. Fourth. The participation of civil society in public life. It is in Croatia in principle, declared at quite high level. There is the impression that sometimes it is predominant in certain political and particular interests of individual parties. But in a real relationship it does not stand, it is often used as an attemptal front, clearly when it comes to protecting the individual integrity of a political decision or a political party. And in nature this civil society is only at the beginning of its maturation and it will absolutely experience and experience one of its own ways in which I hope to look different and have stronger goals and tasks. The creation of a successful private sector in the economy is also a prerequisite that unquestionably affects the subject of the law's interest and the content of this report is in its own special way. Because without the regulated economic sector, without the regulated relations in it which are absolutely a single guarantee of countering corruption and all illegal actions show that definitely relations in the economy are clearly and unequivocally affecting the overall situation in society, the overall situation that is again clearly read to citizens. And the reform of public administration, which is one of the crucial and essential components in order to give a final assessment of the role of public administration in a society and how much citizens can and must be satisfied with such a public administration, speaks of a great responsibility which, of course, this law or these reports may be resolved, but it is now evident from the passing of this time since the law has been passed that we will have to wait for the final assessment of what has been achieved during this short period, and which, unfortunately, is not visible from this report, that we will have to wait. But we will also have to, even as far as the HSS Club is concerned, ask the government to answer these completely open questions very clearly in its next report, because the number of cases that have been resolved in relation to those which have not been resolved, while not giving an answer to these key issues concerning part of this, I say, political but economic focus cannot create a positive picture of the implementation of this law in this relatively short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37852	Thank you very much. HSLS Club, DC, LS. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37853	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, sir... Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here's my colleague Letica and I are in the bench like this, so we don't know if that's exactly what Kant said, but we could say that he said about this report that "the first kittens in the water are being thrown." Apparently, they still have no experience writing this report that should provide us with information on how the Law on the right to access information for, in the course of the year. But I would come back, and I think that, just so it should and accept it as actually the first attempt where there are no obviously not yet, the rules of the game have not been laid out. And in itself, the report would actually be genreic, so we'd say it's semi-satisfaction with that form. The report has some of its genre rules and we could say about this exactly so that it answered, because it sort of meets this formally that there were, I don't know, as many demands as it was accepted, as much as it was rejected, and that none of these actually enters into its structure and content. What Balzak would say now, it's certainly nothing stupid as a fact. In a way, the facts themselves do not speak either positively or negatively. But I'd go back a little bit to the past. I remember how this law was passed in the first place. He was brought during his past term. At the same time, several MPs felt that the government hesitated to pass very important laws. And then, with the help of some colleagues from NGOs, we were determined who was going to write what law. So one of us was in charge of the law to write him a Law on conflict of interest, that is, to prevent conflict of interest. As I recall, my colleague, Rados, was just assigned to write this Law on the right to access information. And we have to commend him, then he was the fastest and he was the first to write, he did his part of the commitment. And so somehow and at the end of 2003, the government finally passed this law. What always happens is that sometimes politicians also experience their political experience, their knowledge, their... conditions try to dissipate and participate in what is otherwise called "how to raise a citizen". No, I think that when you say "how to raise a citizen" then nobody should understand anything negative and you don't think that on this side of politics is smart and wise, and I don't know that it doesn't belong to the other side, the other side of the public. But sometimes, in fact, not even citizens themselves or should be helped to get acquainted with some of their rights and to benefit from those rights. And it shouldn't be too much of an optimist then and think it's going to go very fast and very easy and simple. Some times it's just these rights, and it's just that there are problems because these rights don't apply. So this is the right to access information. It is this fact that regardless of this number he asks that it is still quite hazy and that actually citizens still do not know what their rights are. And just like these sessions and these next reports and somehow further work on this truly noble idea, I agree with my colleague, Radosh, when he said that the potential of this law was not used in any way. I'm saying, it might be too optimistic if we thought it could be done very quickly and very simple. It's a long job waiting for us. On the other hand, it is precisely necessary to keep repeating and not every time to be a populist, demagogue, to raise the public, but also to say once and for some time that this public and also in the right way should use what the positive legal solutions of our country allow. I can remember the same thing at the end of the 1980s, the 90s when we created that ambience, the atmosphere for these social democratic changes that were actually the biggest applause we got when we were just saying that we were breaking up with something called secret combinations, secret agreements, where we really wanted to democratisation, demystify, and that it really wasn't any job that belonged to the chosen ones, but that in the right sense of words you understood these democratic changes where politicians should be transmissions and speakers of what the citizens wanted. It was not normal that later on it was not happening in this direction and that later politics was gaining all these markings of secrecy, conspiracy and all that, or non-transparentity that would be said today, we have this situation for citizens to give up politics, which is seen first of all at the outset of the elections. Obviously, it suits someone, although it's always on short notice and that this substance of civil need not only with legal, good laws, obviously this isn't a bad law, but right now it's just about to become as accessible to the public as possible and that the public, or citizens, start using it and then in some way we here in the Parliament are going to force the representatives of the state administration to and this genre of writing reports to match it exactly what we want. If, for example, an attorney, the former one was able to write reports that were about to happen if I did not cheat 100 or more pages, and in some ways he described not only paradigm cases but his report showed in some ways all the depth of the problems he was facing as an institution or showing problems with the functioning of our government. On the other hand, I also believe that this will happen in the next report by my colleague Palarić, and this very debate in this triangle of the media, politics and the public that it will actually realize that this law provides great opportunities and that these possibilities need to be corrected and right now I will return to the beginning, I think that indeed the first kittens are being thrown into the water and we can take this report to the knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37854	Thank you very much. In 10, 41 timed out for a ten-minute hearing. We are going to an individual debate, the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37855	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This report that we have here is content and in a formal sense empty and therefore completely pointless and then offensive. Not as offensive to the Parliament as it is to the public. This law was passed because of citizens, not because of MPs in the Assembly, they have the right to information under other laws, but the citizens only have this law by which they acquire the right to information. Write a report to the citizens on page 4, so empty about how this Law was implemented is offensive to these citizens. As this report is drawn up, it is said immediately in paragraph 2 that the supervision of law enforcement is carried out by the Central State Administration Office. Now as he conducts that surveillance, three, four paragraphs away, here's the answer to that question. Veli, according to information provided by the Central State Office, public authorities publish information in official newspapers, media, free entrepreneurship information and information media, websites. We continue which is not entirely accurate at all, but see how the state's office is conducting surveillance. So he collected the data, which was delivered to him by the public authorities, and thus he supervised the implementation of the Law and I think that's enough. How the central state office enforces the law. Here is what the Law says in its Article 20(1) of point 3. says "independence on individual requirements requiring access to information by the public authority authorities, the obligations are in an appropriate manner in the official texts or on the information media to publish specific information on the requests submitted, presentations, petitions, proposals and other activities undertaken by the users to the public authority". Let's go to the state office's website and see if they've published it in terms of the obligations set out in this Law. That's what you'll look for in vain, you won't find it there, but let's not be surprised, which we're surprised isn't on the website when the Secretary of State himself is here, introducing his report, saying that they've assessed it to be irrational. So the secretary of state finds it irrational to enforce the law. And then whoever is in charge of overseeing the implementation of this law and believes it is irrational to conduct it writes a report to this Parliament and to the entire Croatian public, and we should now discuss this report as a matter of seriousness. As one other article is implemented, another provision in this law which states that public authorities are obliged to publish, public authorities whose competence is to draft laws and sublegislative acts are obliged to publish drafts of these acts and to allow the authorities to make themselves known within the appropriate time limit. Who draws up the drafts of the law, the Ministry. Go to any ministry and look for one single bill, which then allows the public debate that is required here, is ultimately required. There are none, for example, I went to the Ministry of the Sea there to write what Minister Calmeta was doing, to open this, to open this, to visit this, to talk to the protocol activities of Minister Calmeta, there is no draft bill. Not the one about the telecommunications we recently discussed here while it was in the draft. He has an invitation to a press conference to present the already finished law when he passed the government. It means obviously not respecting the law. And what the Secretary of State says now is to oversee the implementation of this law. Did he say that Minister Calmeta or any other minister does not respect the law, no. This report does not say, however, it says "the Croatian Parliament's website regularly publishes data on the work of the Croatian Parliament which is true, and through the Internet portal other data are available to citizens related to the work of the Parliament, reports on protocol activities, and full texts of acts and laws." Yes, when they were adopted on the Parliament portal, and what about the ministries. So, what is to conclude, or that the secretary of state doesn't even know what the ministry and ministers are obliged to do, then carry out surveillance, and he's in charge of conducting surveillance. And if he can't carry out that surveillance then how can he draw up the report, but the report exactly the quality of the report is talking about the quality of the surveillance and what we could go to the site of certain ministries to see how the ministers enforce the law. Now, Mr. Palaric, I now give you an oral request this hour, asking you as a citizen, not as a representative, as a citizen, to provide me with information that all ministers do not respect the provision of Article 20(2). The law on access to information, because you are bound by this Act, and give me an answer, to that inquiry, to publish on the website of your State Office, because you are bound by law. So count all ministers who don't respect the law, you'll have to count yourself because you don't respect it either, all ministers who don't respect the law and then tell me that you as the person in charge of overseeing the implementation of this Act that you're going to propose to the government to do with such ministers. How is the law respected? Look, I'm still on May 20th 2004, that was, like, a year, a little bit more, referred to the IRS, the Central Office, the Director, the Master of Ivica Mladne, one inquiry. To provide me with an urgent solution to the Tax Administration sent to the Croatian Radio Television in April 2004 on which HRT is required to pay VAT on tax revenue for a 6-month period, together with tight interest amounts of around 73 million kuna. I also ask you, I am writing to Mr. Mladne, to answer whether the solution mentioned was executed, i.e. whether a possible complaint was sent to the Ministry of Finance by HRT delaying its execution. Because I have to mention to you at all that I didn't get an answer, but Mr. Palaric, which you did not write in your report that Mr. Mladneo is not only responding to the citizens but also to the representatives. That he so respects the Law on the right to access information. So why didn't you in that report suggest to the government what to do with one who doesn't respect the law. He needs to be replaced, set up by someone who respects the law. Well, I can't have the director of the IRS respecting the laws. So where is it, in which country? So he who exercises oversight over him cannot draw up a report in which he does not write it, and deliver it to the Parliament. So where's that? So tell me one country where it exists. I didn't get an answer from the young man. We got an answer from Dr. Hebrang here in a debate the other day that's not satisfied with the TV program, so he suggests that they're getting even higher taxes because they haven't released some kind of series that's not finished yet, probably with him in the lead. Look, this is an important law, it's a new law, it's important. He is a powerful tool in the hands of citizens, a tool of control of the government, above all control of the government. Now, what does this report show us? Does the government want it to be implemented, to be a weapon in the hands of the citizens or not? From this drawn up report on pages 4 without a single example, I can conclude only one thing, that the Government is not at all interested in getting to know its rights under this Law and that these rights are used. So, because of everything I've said here, this report should simply be rejected and rejected with indignity. With an indignity. In the interest and in the protection of the rights of those for whom the law has been passed, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37856	Thank you very much. Here, fellow Stazic, you mentioned the Parliament. All draft laws either from the Government or from the MPs are published, bill proposals, on the Croatian Parliament website.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37857	And I commended the Parliament for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37858	And the amendment and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37859	And I commended the Parliament for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37860	Yeah, yeah. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honored representative Stazic has been repeating for the third time that I have asked for an increase in taxes on Croatia's broadcasting, which I have not said, of course. Because I don't say things that are illegal. I only asked for Croatian broadcasting to be followed by the Law on Budgets, the Law on VAT and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget where VAT must be paid for any service and for programme broadcasting services. Which is a favor, and it's not a fee for owning a TV as I explained because I gave my TV to seal and I don't have to pay the fee, and I still own the TV. So the fee is exclusively for the service, and for the service, VAT must be paid, not double, I never said it, but as prescribed by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37862	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37863	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. So I would say, it seems to me that the Croatian public is not aware of the range and reach provided by this Law on Access to Information. This would not even be strange or illogical, but it seems to me that we representatives of these Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament do not refer to the Law as representatives of these citizens, but as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is seen in the report itself and in the way in which it was delivered to us to the Assembly. This report has not even been difficult to deal with the problem of citizens getting to know and informing. It's not even statistical enough, and we all know, even in simple speech, I'll tell you that information is timely and accurate, actually, capital value. I agree with that, and the so-called asymmetric information works in Croatia. Why? Well, some know, and based on that information, they get rich, others don't know, and they can't participate in that wealth. If we just go back a little bit, let's look at how the conversion and privatisation was done, we'll know what it means to be timely, true and accurate. One part of the citizens was certainly well informed of all the labyrinths of Croatian privatisation, and this made him rich. And that's where he got rich. The second part has remained short sleeves, but the worst part is now kept in disinformation because it usually places information, all systems, from economic, financial, social, are good. However, they do not give results immediately, so they should wait for them to work, and unemployment and social situation remain the same. Those who claim it for 15 years actually give disinformation, and that's what I wanted to say. Therefore, the duty of our representatives is not to silence and protect the government but to provide information for citizens, our voters, and not to claim that they have the right to information. The naked right means nothing to them or to us, but the public of the work of the state, government and state administration is the meaning of this law. That's really not what we do. It can be seen on the following example. According to me, one of these laws is the Public Procurement Act, which allows citizens to control the spending of their money. We have a situation like this here. That formal law is implemented because the law provides for 5 offers to be obtained. These offers do not have to have any quality or bidders must have any reference for the service or job offered, but that is already enough to choose one of these offers. She's usually pre-arranged. If this is further added that in the last year, only half a billion kunas were paid on the highways, outside the planned plans, designed outside the Public Procurement Act, and in the whole of billions of kunas, then it is said what is, then it is known what is timely information. Let's try another detail. One who finds out in time that a spatial and urban plan will be adopted has gained priority over all others. If he knows where he can get the money, or he's got information about it, then these relationships are much more complicated and the consequences are far greater and they've been evident in our society for 15 years. Let's get back to a specific situation that you'd like to say about, too. It's, like, local self-government. One of the examples I've gotten quite accidentally is, let's say, building a communal facility is declared in one environment that it's a business secret. So even if he had understanding and the law made it possible for citizens to tell which reasons they qualify as a business secret. Therefore, citizens need to know, not only must they know the essence, so it is the same case with Telekom and the contract either first or second or third that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has signed, it is not disputed that the law allows it, but it is disputed why citizens do not know what the reasons for such a contract to be declared a business or state or other secret. Another specific example. Let's say in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, all reports whether they are public or anonymous are actually made possible by public insight. The public has the right to know about our property cards, and that's fine, and then the law decides to close the debate. It only mystifies the whole thing and does not allow the public to see the work of the body, but neither the reasons why the application is filed, whether it is real reasons or political or political reasons. In our history, let's say there's another very important indicator of what it means to create timely true information, for example, PIFs, funds, privatisation investment funds. Those who had timely information have taken advantage of it, but it's not for my advantage, but they've made it possible for themselves to be rich. All in all, I think that citizens, and this Parliament too, deserve the implementation of the law on the right, not the right, the access to information, the processing of the problem, the scope and consequences of why it is not implemented and to deliver to the Parliament as soon as possible. It's not just about us MPs, it's about the citizens we represent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37864	Thank you. Dear Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37865	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As many speakers, I do not support this report, and I will not vote for its adoption, and as the debate goes on, it seems to me the smartest solution that has been withdrawn in my time by the Deputy Prime Minister when we discussed the implementation of the human rights protection programme that simply withdrew the report from this parliamentary debate and made a commitment to do so to you, Mr. Secretary of State, that you simply withdraw this report so that we do not all get embarrassed here together. I cannot support this report, because the way the report itself is drawn up, the content of this report itself is personally humiliating to me. For me to be personally humiliating, I think it would not be such a problem if it were not humiliating for the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian government you represent here, but what perhaps is most important for Croatian citizens who have the right to know and who have the right to information. We, when we passed the law in 2003, and it seems to me that given this debate we need to warn it, we all agreed at that time that the introduction of information rights and availability of information is a strong civilizational step for Croatian society. Then we characterized the right to information by what it is, which is a fundamental human right. The possibility that Croatian citizens, and the law refers to citizens and the right to have information available to them, is an honest pluralist, primal, original, and thus completely unmanipulated information is available to them, it was a strong step away from the practice we have witnessed and too many times when media freedoms and the rights of the public to know. It also seems important to warn me that the consumption of information rights achieves quality public participation, and in matters of public interest, and this is our Croatian problem, among other things the ability and effectiveness of the administration, helps to preserve the fair administration itself, but also avoids the risk of corruption. It's one of the most important tools in the fight against corruption. We warned when we passed the law that it was very important that the administration itself and the civil service that are in the state, which makes it impossible to inform the public about the work of the government, and it seems to me that this is now the case in Croatia, can also destroy the most progressive legislation, that they can also destroy the best government projects and programmes, which, unfortunately, is what happens to us too often. A colleague, Stazic, spoke about the legal obligation of the public authority. I feel the need to point out three things. The bodies of the public authorities are obliged, whether they are at all or not, to publish certain information once a month, as defined by law, whether or not someone is looking for that information. As far as I'm aware, and as far as I've been able to see, not one single body of public authorities, and I think there's about 160 of them all together, it doesn't work. Coli Stazic has already warned that the ministries are obliged to publish draft proposals for acts that are passed, which apply to laws, but this applies to sublegal acts, and unfortunately many sublegal acts are not only published in the draft but are not published at the time when they were passed, because it is obviously in someone's interest to hide and sneak through the National Journal and that people do not even know which regulations have been adopted. That would be in one theoretical level what should be done. The specific situation regarding the exercise of the right to the availability of information is I repeat extremely humiliating and delivered in the Government's report no more than on four pages. I list the bodies of the public authorities to which this law should apply, there are more letter signs than just a report, it seems to me to be somewhere on six pages. The report on how those bodies that are only listed on six pages implement the law is on four pages. However, this scope would not be so important, the quality of the report is important, but two or three examples from the report itself are important. It is said here in the report, I quote: "in most cases, public authorities have made a decision that has appointed a special official person relevant for" etc. and "the decision to form a catalogue of information". I, Mr. Secretary of State, think you should have written in our report what the public authorities didn't do, why they didn't do it, what you did to do, how you're going to punish them in some way, how you're going to force them to obey the law. Furthermore, although the report relating to the Croatian Parliament is good, and the Croatian Parliament is relatively relative to everyone else’s right to have access to information, I must say that the latest decision we have made on the public work of the Parliament does not correspond with this law in terms of asking and keeping certain records, and perhaps that this debate is also an incentive for the Parliament Presidency to coordinate this a little so that indeed the Croatian Parliament, which is by now the best body of public authority in terms of the implementation of this law, would indeed be an example for everyone else. Speaking of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the government has received three requests, and two have been rejected, one has been accepted. Why were those demands rejected? The right to information is an obligation. Refusal and non-repair of information rights is only an exception and I think both the Croatian Parliament and citizens deserve to say what it is rejected and why it is rejected. I think only the report must be much wider than just listing how much has come, what has been rejected, what has been accepted. That the matter is worse than half the public authorities that are bound by this law are not mentioned in this report at all. It's not just the ministries, it's not just the courts, the units of local self-government. This is about all the funds, for example the Croatian National Bank. It's all about all the high schools. This is about the State Archives, it's about agencies, it's about national parks, Croatian waters, nature parks, various state institutes. We don't even know what's going on in these institutes, what's going on in regulatory bodies that also have an obligation under this law on the availability of information. We've said a lot, and only towards the end according to the conclusion. I repeat, I will not support this law and I think it would be wise for you to give up this debate at all now and prepare a real report that has the right to even be called a report, because this can hardly be called a report. And after the whole debate, I'm afraid I'm not the only one who sees in some way the twin character of this government's behavior. On the one hand, the human right of citizens to information, to the availability of information as we have seen in this report, is being fairly sloppyly executed. On the other hand, the government and our Croatian government are very proud of the open door, various web portals. We now have an example of listening to the current public campaign on the Croatian national educational standard that has not been published at all. And the bottom line is that it's kind of about the village of Pacokin, that it's about creating an impression that's just like domology and revealing through this information availability report because we see that it actually has nothing to do with each other but absolutely nothing to do with it. Mr. Secretary of State, another proposal if you really find this job too difficult to do, and you in the office can't have many countries introducing an attorney for the availability of information. Canada a few dozen years ago, Romania, for example, was among the last few years ago because it really is a civil achievement and it is indeed a fundamental human right. And once again I ask you, this report is really humiliating for you, or for the government you represent, both for the Croatian Parliament and for the citizens. I certainly won't vote for him and I think it would be best if you gave him up in some way and took the last chance to justify your face and justify the civilization's achievement here in Croatia achieved two years ago by passing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37866	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Petar Selem, called for a meeting of the Committee today at 14.30 pm in the Chamber "Ivan Kukuljevic" with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37867	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been said about the non-implementation and non-compliance of the law, and so much is said about the quality of this report that we received in a few pages, so I would not return much to it, except that I would like to comment on this number of 19 thousand 600 requests that have been made to public authorities, meaning 19 thousand 600 questions to citizens or legal persons in which way the public authorities operate. Why so little? In the first order that we have not taught our citizens that citizens have the right to know because our citizens still do not know that they have the right to know, because we have not been able to show them what the bodies of the public authorities that are obliged to submit their reports in any form, either via the Internet, or on their request, either in any other way as regulated by the law. And that's why I want to read what the bodies of the public authorities are to get to know the citizens where they have the right to ask for certain information and which must not be denied. The bodies of public authorities are national authorities, bodies of units of local and regional regional self-government, legal persons with public authority and other persons to whom public powers are transferred. It's a pretty clear formulation. What, though, is causing citizens? How can citizens know what these are bodies which have been transferred to public authorities, which are bodies with public authority, the citizens do not know. And I can't even know because it's just I'm looking for bodies that were left out of a list of public authorities managed to find 29. I turned over one 60 laws and managed to find 29 bodies that we in the Committee on Information and Information and Media have drawn up in some 35 of our proposals to supplement the list of public authorities. And now here I have to say that some of it, we got feedback that some of it was adopted. However, not many of those bodies have passed, and I wonder why. It is, for example, the Croatian Psychological Chamber, the Croatian Institute for the Control of Immuno-biological Devices, the Croatian Institute for Medicinal Products, the Croatian Institute for Mental Health, the Croatian Institute for Social Health, and not to list further than to say the County Institute for Public Health. Does this mean that these county public health institutions are not public authorities, or that they have not been given the authority of the public authority. I think that without informing citizens, without proper training of citizens that they have the right to know they cannot expect that the primary task that the law was meant to achieve is to prevent corruption in public services that this primary requirement cannot be implemented until citizens know what their rights are. In what way will the Central State Office do this to any seminars, any presentations, either via the Internet, I don't know, but I suggest that we train citizens urgently, let them know that they have the right to know everything that happens in all public authorities. And that's why I propose this report as it is what I think Emanuel Kant said that the first kittens are being thrown into the water but my neighbor, Baba Mara, so I wouldn't attribute what Mr Kramaric said to be the wetlands of Emanuel Kanta. I wouldn't throw this report away as first kittens, but I just wouldn't accept it because something that doesn't indicate what that law was supposed to do. And that's why I suggest that this report not be accepted. And an even better option, that Mr. Palaric withdraws it and makes a new report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37868	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37869	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will also not repeat much of what is said here in the discussion of colleagues and colleagues who have seen all the inadequacies of this report. Namely, those who are not for throwing the first kittens into the sea but for serious reports. So instead of stating the known shortcomings of this report, I will convey the opinion of a series of NGOs that are extremely important in this context because the main intermediaries between citizens and state authorities are. Since the quality assessment of the implementation of the Law on the right to access information of this organisation is extremely important, I will pass on their comments to you in this order. First of all, the Croatian Helsinki Committee, the HHO, has assessed the implementation of the Law as very bad and points out that the key problem is that there is no political will to apply this Law. Without the pressures and campaigns of government organisations, the adoption of the Law was questionable and it is likely that without external pressure virtually would remain applicable. Another problem that the HHO points out, insufficient information at all levels on the existence of the Law and on the rights and obligations arising from it. Both in state administration bodies and among citizens and journalists. This is accompanied by an extremely high need for education at all levels and this system education financed by a state that has not been recognised so far. Last year, HHO conducted the first survey on the implementation of this Law, which included two comparative tests in August and again in November 2004. The results of the zero first test were published on September 28th last year. According to these surveys, only 28% of the responses were received on the 256 information requests submitted. The result is the same as in Albania, Moldova and Macedonia, for example. After marking September 28th, international citizens' day has been known, and after the results of zero testing of the application of this Act have been reported to almost all media outlets, they began to respond to the requirements of the HHO, so the picture improved significantly during October. Thus, a 52% response of which 188 positive and 17 negative was received on 256 information requests by 1 November 2004. Which is twice the score of September 28th. This shift, as well as the subsequent arrival of answers, testifies the necessity of external pressures on public administration bodies in order to implement this Act on its own. However, the HHO points out that there remains too much silence from the administration that deafens to 121 requests on information regarding the following bodies of central importance for the functioning of the state and the well-being of citizens. Office of the President and Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water, Ministry of European Integration, many courts, many counties and cities. "BABE", a group for women's human rights and a partnership for social development, not a government organisation, is committed to preventing corruption and involving citizens in decision-making have jointly conducted an innovative research into the public procurement process in the city of Zagreb. The study lasted from the beginning of February to the end of April 2005 and the findings relating to the application of the Law on the right to access information in this study are devastating. For example, the city of Zagreb, as the largest unit of local self-government in Croatia, which should be the service of a quarter of all citizens of this country, has no information officer in charge of providing access to information to interested parties such as the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Public Procurement, while the Commission for the control of the procurement process could not even obtain information whether there is a person in charge of the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information. In all three cases, there has been an overrun of all legal deadlines for responding to the question of these non-government organisations and in two cases the answers are held by a date which in many cases, which is at an enormous distance from the actual date of receipt of the response, which also points to possible practice of anti-dating documents in order to create a vision of respect for legal obligations. Based on this painful experience of obtaining information about public procurement as well as on the rich experience of the social development partnership that supports citizens in their fight with administration and corruption, "BABE" and the social development partnership assess the implementation of this extremely important Law as extremely bad. The key problems of not knowing the law by public officials as well as the lack of political will to fully implement the law and thus allow public institutions to give citizens, media and not government organisations access to information that could improve both efficiency and transparency of public institutions' work. In light of all the shortcomings in the implementation of the "BABE" Act and the social development partnership, they consider an unacceptable lack of information on complaints from citizens as well as on the practice of the individual public authorities to which the Law applies in this year's report on the implementation of this Act. Transparency International Croatia shares in its comments the opinion of the HHO on the problems faced by this Law in its implementation and draws attention to the need for greater information and education at all levels on the existence of the Law and the possibility of its use. In this regard, the transparency international applied to the Government's Human Rights Office for three cycles of education of civil servants for the application of the law in collaboration with the HHO. For the project, very small funds were allocated, not a third of what was sought, indicating undeveloped sensitivity and understanding of the importance of the right to access information. In the autumn, HHO and Transparency International Croatia will organise the first education on this topic and this training for coaches at the Centre for Education and Training of State Employees at the Central State Administration Office. Efforts to find funds for organising and conducting the education of local self-government staff. In its comments, the Green Action Association refers to the non-transparency of the proposal for a law on GMOs in April 2005 which violates the right to access information and is therefore in a coalition with this Act, as the proposed Law does not ensure that public opinion will be respected during the process of accepting or refusing to use GMOs, and that it will bear all the consequences of such use. The "youth Croatian" network of 29 youth associations and young people from all over Croatia highlights the fact that the national programme of action for young people supported in the 2002 Parliament and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January 2003 as an official document of national policy towards young people cannot be found on any official website, not one of the public flows and as such is not available to the public. In addition, the youth network of Croatia highlights the fact that this National Programme has not been published in the National Journal, with the reason that the document does not contain legally binding force, which cannot be called a legitimate criterion of publication in the National Journal. In talks with representatives of prominent associations, some shared their direct knowledge of citizens' experiences with information received from state institutions under this Act. After a media campaign and markings were launched last September, citizens began to turn to HHO and "Transparency International" Croatia with the question of how to send out rushes and how to help them formulate complaints to the Administrative Court as the highest instance in the appeal procedure. There are already some rulings of the Administrative Court which are interesting on March 3rd of this year, which rejects the insight of the association "Luris Protecta" in the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Deutsche Telecom on... part of Croatian Telecom which is a scandalous example of worth mentioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to Transparency International Croatia in its research...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37870	Comrade Banac, please... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37871	I'll finish this sentence if I may. In its study of public opinion on corruption, public information of interest from 2005 has come up with devastating results on public information and on the existence and possibility of the application of this Act. [[Intruder: Yes.]] For example, of 1,000 subjects
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37872	We can't go any further. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37873	51% doesn't know that this law exists at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37874	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37875	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Law on Access to Information was actually supposed to be one means to make a strong move towards the citizens it represents. However, this report cannot conclude. Not to be concluded but to be concluded exactly the opposite. The government obviously has no need for, nor does it matter to her, so that she can spend time on it. And I repeat, as the Secretary of State has said here, the government is handling the principle of efficiency. The history of this institute of access to information is a long time ago. In 1776, for the first time in the Kingdom of Sweden, the law of this species was passed. When the king himself and the nobility were considered necessary, I need to give information to their subjects who are taxpayers. Yes, because they finance them by paying taxes then the Kingdom of Sweden felt that these citizens who were still subjects had the right to know how to spend those funds. So all the rights to insight were still citizens back then. And that's how this institute developed. So here we are in one big problem still that the government doesn't think that the information they have in the nature of the business is one common good, one general value that doesn't belong to them, doesn't belong to the government, and the government can have with them whatever they want but that's one general good, the information is generally good. She's a public good that belongs to the citizens. Access to information with us isn't solved by this law alone. By way of derogation from Article 38(1) of the The constitution says censorship is forbidden, journalists have the right to freedom of reporting and access to information. There's still the Media Act, about HINA. There is then a whole series of procedural provisions in certain laws concerning information, public reporting in certain segments of public government activity. Citizens have the right to know what and why they decide. They have the right to gain insight into official documents they need without any explanation. Even if that's what the 60-day sentence is supposed to be for. The relationship between authorities and citizens should be a relationship of trust that is strengthened precisely by applying the principle of openness to the public. Citizens have no reason to fear authorities or to fear citizens. So that principle of openness, the principle of generality is dominant here. Our citizens pay their country, give it confidence in the elections, and then after the election, they did not stop their obligations to those citizens. In fact, new and more comprehensive ones have arisen. Citizens have the right to ask the authorities for any action in each of its segments. These are mandatory and mandatory bodies of public authorities. But the situation is far from the law. So we now have a situation when after a year of applying this Law we should see where we are, which still needs to be improved, and we seem beyond that situation and the worse situation than when we had in the situation and the day it was voted and passed in November, in October 2003 this Law. Why is that? Perhaps this particular report reveals the nature of the government. Does this government really need subjects or citizens? It is the citizens who have their pride, who have the right, who know that they have the right to the authority they have given trust, who are paying them to give them the answers. However, among these answers, the MPs gave their own examples of what we today face as representatives, the answers we receive from the government. What is very important is what was both the meaning of this Law and its principles. So it was a matter of sanctions, a matter of control. But it seems that citizens have the most problems and not citizens as individuals, but citizens as a group, problems precisely with the central state office. Where exactly, pointing to the illegalities and actions of local self-government units have been waiting for a response for months. It's something that's inadmissible. The principle of quick and complete information is the basic principle of this Law. Therefore, the conduct of the Central State Office, in which the entire activity and control of the State is ultimately sublimed in relation to this Act, but also other issues of transparency of the government, is best reflected in this work, and then, accordingly, in its report. It gives the impression that the government is spending a lot of money to propagate itself, but not what it did. Well, it's a source of information, then. Let the citizens know. It's just a compliment. But to only create an impression of some effects that nothing stands for. Let's just remember the open door. Door, no more open doors. They were suitable for one election, now we have some others. However, do we remember the appearance of new ministers who so benevolently gave their cell numbers to today when no longer a citizen but a representative can neither get a secretary from a secretary nor let alone a minister. So much for the government's openness, so much for the government's transparency. So it's obvious once again that I end up with the government policy, from this report, and how it's open, how transparent it's only talking about it, and this irrefutablely also reports from a number of NGOs are saying something completely different that this government really doesn't need citizens. She needs subjects. This government doesn't rule, it only seduces.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37876	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37877	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this government has deceived voters with open-door inscriptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37878	SDP representative club, final five-minute debate. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37879	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. By reading this text, I could not be surprised that the report on such an extremely important law cared for in fact two, three pages. It's actually a very important law. It is a law that guarantees our citizens equality in the right to access information on the work of state authorities. So, about a law that guarantees access to key information, which is how their money is spent, for which purposes it is spent. So, what's done with their money and how the government and local administration function in the first place. The report on this you summed up in one totally Zen style on three pages. We at the club are not satisfied with the findings on the basis of the ministry's reports received 4302 requests for access to information, of which 16 were rejected, 8 were dismissed, and the others were accepted. I'm interested, not only in me, but I trust each and every one of us in the Parliament why these eight were rejected. We expect to give a reason, because Article 9. The law on the right to access information clearly states that information is available with certain exceptions if this would prevent the investigation of the perpetrators of criminal offences, if it would prevent the work of the bodies carrying out the work of legality, if it would cause serious damage to life, health, safety and the environment, if it would endanger the implementation of economic or monetary policy, if it would endanger the right of intellectual property, etc. etc. So we expect in the report a detailed explanation for which some citizen could not get the information. If we can't get that now or in the future, then these reports are completely unnecessary, then this is one mere satisfaction of the form, and then it's bringing down the law on the right to access information on cartoons with ritual debates in the Assembly about how we here give our citizens the right to access to information, and at the same time we as representatives don't have basic information, and that's why someone couldn't get the information they asked for. I remind you, Mr. Secretary of State, of the Canadian Law on the right to access information that is very extensive, which very precisely defines responsibilities, but it knows who is responsible there. There is the responsibility of the "commissionary for information", so the person elected by the Canadian Parliament from its ranks and who is engaged in protecting citizens' rights to access information with very clear exceptions that relate exclusively to national security and exclusively to the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences in order to facilitate the investigation. However, it guarantees any possible information and information on the business of public companies, i.e. companies owned by a state or local self-government. In Canada, reports like this are simply unimaginable. So it remains for us a long time until we reach that desired goal, but we don't need to go too far. All neighbouring countries are trying to comply with these standards, and that is precisely why if we want to be one of the countries that strives towards the European Union, I ask you nicely on behalf of the HSP Club that you no longer submit such reports to the Assembly, but that they are far better supported. The HSP club will take this into knowledge and nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37880	Thank you very much. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37881	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course, the right to access information is one of the important rights that belong to our citizens, but I refuse any thought that the government is running away from the exercise of that right. However, this government insists on the public of its work. It opens up the possibility that using modern technology as many state records as possible, as much data available to us on the Internet can be made available to citizens. For example, an electronic land book was recently opened. We have lists of voters. We had polling stations, and now we have put on the Internet a list of all associations registered in the Republic of Croatia. So, over 27000 that are operating and more and more databases that are of course public, will be available on the Internet, and we are making sure that this law applies, we have published a list of public authorities' bodies, we have brought under the legal acts that they need, insist on, and exactly, the government has even warned the public authorities to apply this law, hasten them. The Central State Office sent out districts and we participated in several round tables, gatherings, and indeed we agreed with the "Transparence Internationale" that coaches, coaches trained to work at the Centre for the Education of State Officers will also train on the application of this law to develop the system of application of this law more effectively. This is the first report. We really came, wanted to hear the Parliament think, what the Parliament would like the contents of the report. We have assessed, of course, by applying the law, by applying Article 25 of the Law, which is that each body submits a report to the office and that the office combines reports and when we came to the data from the 1960s, that it is responsible and when we get 14, only 14 complaints from citizens, we have come to the conclusion that this law is applied in a satisfactory way, that it can be better, it can always be better and we will try to be better, but the report for the following year will certainly contain all those cases where the request for information has been refused and for which reasons it has been rejected as well as the sublimed case practice of the Administrative Court. Here's what I suggest is that this report be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37882	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37883	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleague Palaric. Under the law, you were required to state in the report, which rejected the possibility of a citizen getting information. He didn't write that, and I warned you on behalf of the club, Mr. Pero Kovacevic warned on behalf of our club. We didn't get the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37884	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. Congratulations to MPs Ivana Posavec-Krivec on my sworn oath and I wish her success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty. [[Applause.]] And give the MPs the key right now. We're going to the vote. Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2004. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 68 votes in favour, one abstention and 22 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37887	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies of honor, gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to present in the shortest possible terms the contents of our first full report last year. The report represents agreed and planned activities, but it is also the result of those actions that have not endured any delay because it was simply about children and cases of slaughter that could not wait. With its structure as you have seen it consists of two basic parts. In the first part of the title, a violation of individual rights of children has been followed, individual cases addressed to the Ombudsman for children, as well as those which the Ombudsman has opened for children alone by the basis of his own initiative. Of all the figures not to repeat them here, we single out as a particularly worrying one that 70% of the application of the Order applied to infringements of children's personal rights, mainly those related to parental care, as well as the protection of children from all forms of violence that we consider particularly worrying. So this figure suggests that injuries often occur in the family home and school, so in places where children by nature should be the most protected. Of course, the report does not mention all the individual cases, but we have grouped these cases according to groups of rights and singled out the recurring and important ones, which are painfully pointing to the weak linkages of the system. Family related problems arise when a child, contrary to his best interest, becomes a sort of polygon of mutual parenting. Some experts talk about the term of children from unskilled divorces. In these cases, a very important role and broad authority has a social care system, mainly social care centres. As a problem in the management of the social care system in general in these sensitive cases, we have seen it as a problem very often, almost regularly overstepping the deadlines for making first-degree and second-degree solutions and the parties are waiting for decisions for months, sometimes over a year. Insufficient use of all legal powers to protect the rights and interests of children in administrative procedures, mainly a measure of family and legal protection, for example, a measure of supervision of parental care and which is very helpful for parents to start working. And also in the proceedings before the courts where the centre is given an extremely proactive role both in the context of the initiation of proceedings of such a proposal of evidence. Often, however, we have not seen this kind of behavior. Personal parties complain almost daily about centres, lack of sensitivity and understanding of these very sensitive issues. We believe that there should be far greater activity in the welfare center. And in certain cases of regret, we must say that we have seen a fundamental disregard for the rules of administrative procedure as well as for the methodology of professional work. In all cases, the Ombudsman made recommendations to the centres of conduct. Some centers gladly accepted this, and what has always resulted in their child’s help. Some of them showed huge resistance. And that the absurdity is greater precisely in those cases where just because of the failure of the welfare system, there have been severe and tragic consequences for children. We point to only one of these cases described on pages 73 to 78 of the report. We really appreciate the objective difficulties in the functioning of the centres, the lack of employees, the lack of education, the absence of a supervisory vision. It's a system that burns very quickly. The parties are sensitive, the problems are very wide. In many centres there are indeed very inappropriate conditions for work, up to the elemental uncertainty of system employees who themselves are exposed to frequent attacks by parties. But I'm here as a child's attorney, what I have to refer to, these are the centre's competences, and my expectations for them are high. And sometimes we have seen a series of subjective difficulties that we can sublime to the elemental non-recognition of the problem, mainly related to violence, not acting or not being comprehensive. According to the Ombudsman's assessment for children, children are the last segment of society to be saved on. And there are growing problems facing the modern family. And there are great powers that centres have and in this sense our expectations for them, so we have proposed in the report and ways of strengthening the system as a whole. As regards alternative forms of childcare, primary adoption and fostering, we believe that the institution should indeed be the last haven for the child. However, we must inform you that by examining and visiting children's homes we met children who had been in foster homes before, who complained that they had been exposed to inappropriate and difficult work, neglect, and girls and boys even sexual abuse by foster parents. What we consider in the future development of foster care institutes to form very clear and strict criteria on who can be foster, their education and their monitoring. In cases where the child does not have adequate parental care, the state becomes a substitute parent and Croatia must take care of what the real quality of child care will be. We point again as in a number of cases during 2004 on the major problem of non-payment of child restraint. In Croatia, there are 188 thousand single parent families. Each fifth child grows up in one parent’s family and let research say that over 60% of children do not receive or receive their restraint at all. The parties complain, and we have made sure of that ourselves, in very long, exhausting court proceedings, non-ensuring temporary funds during the course of the proceedings, a great lack of information from parents, where we again see the role of the Centre for Social Care in the way of rights, problems in determining the height and collection of restraints. As a consequence, we have in mind that many parents are concerned with a very humiliating and exhausting and difficult long - term battle for this child’s right. What we especially want to warn is alarming data relating to violence against children. State statistics are also very detailed for this reason the activities of the Ombudsman for children and given the fact that even one third of the application of the office refers to any form of violence against children, that the public often perceives us as defenders for the protection of abused children. And the protection of children from abuse is really just one of the powers of counsel for children. To the extent that we're already named. It's not a child lawyer. It's an attorney for the protection of abused children. In cases of domestic violence if I had to briefly expose my position, I believe that despite the efforts made so far and the sensitization of experts in the conduct of individual competent authorities, we have seen complete non-recognition of the problem and phenomenon of violence focus solely on physical phenomena, untimely response, often not reporting by experts outside the police system and the very poor networking of services, institutions and systems as a whole. The report sets out detailed recommendations to improve the system, and as soon as possible, despite the clear definition of the Republic of Croatia towards the protection of victims of domestic violence and the existing normative level, we believe that there is still much to be done in this area. And our dissatisfaction with the existing protection system has also been passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I humbly point out that I believe that the views of the Ombudsman have been made in an important way and a strategy adopted to protect domestic violence. The second issue the office faced is a question of peer violence. And that's where the kids complained to the office on their own. We've reported research data, there's talk of every fourth or fifth child, up to those alarming cases involving violence among children in the homes of social care, the death of protégés or the massacre of a child in a home in Mali Losinj. At the beginning of the report period related to the bullin, we saw complete non-recognition and non-recognition of this problem. Professionals especially in schools have minimized him, belittled him, relativated him from that is nothing, a child should be steeled and charged with who is responsible for the relationship of the school parent. In this part, we consider a significant contribution of the Ombudsman to the adoption of a programme of violence prevention activities between children and protocol, which are government documents in which we actively participated and in comparison and reviewing the situation at the end of the reporting period, we can say that experts, we no longer receive reports that it is nothing, experts acknowledge that the problem exists in some small-scale areas are indeed taking some preventive action, but still in a larger number of environments operate at the level of the current fire intervention only when the case occurs and this is rarely in a very difficult form. What we specifically used to know representatives of the Croatian Parliament and in cases of violence of workers in the homes of social care and schools towards children. In particular, please and refer to the case described on pages 108 to 112 of the report. Even today, even though it has been a few months, I am appalled by the fact that the headmaster of a high school could say the most disgusting things to children for generations and that none of the school boards had done anything. I encourage you to read some of the most disgusting things that one man can say to another, especially to the child and especially to an employee of a system of education and education. With regard to educational rights of children, many difficulties have been observed, of course, in terms of conditions sometimes, change of work, lack of halls, poor spatial conditions, but we point out that there is not much effort in terms of integrated education of children with developmental difficulties, both in terms of architectural barriers and in terms of appropriate early recognition and diagnosis of difficulties to further appropriate education. We are problematizing this issue because there is often a situation where the child is declared lazy, messy, stupid, that he is not trying hard enough to determine just before the end of elementary school that the child has ADHD disorder or dysgraphation and idelidizladia. He just can't read and can't count. And I wonder where the system was, where there were defecologists and psychologists that such a problem had not been detected. Such children are necessarily lagging behind in school, rarely going to high school, always going to some vocational school, but at the very beginning they are disabled for some development as the convention says, up to the full potential of the child. Regarding the protection of health rights, we have handled several cases where parental insight into medical records has been disabled, regarding the availability of expensive medicines for children and refusal by parents of appropriate treatment for children. Especially as a major problem we see, and this has been warned by experts, the lack of adequate psychiatric treatment of children in the Republic of Croatia does not have enough child psychiatrists and we consider it more than necessary to set up special facilities in existing hospitals for children with so-called children. joint disturbances. Children used to fight or drink alcohol, today they fight and drink alcohol and get high and they're destructive and self-destructive and all in one case. With regard to the social economic rights of children, the most important subject was the question of poverty and the social threat of children. The question that we consider necessary amendments to the law and I am sorry that the Parliament recently discussed the amendment of the Law on Extra charge for children is a situation where the extra for children is given to parents, and they often take inadequate care of children and the child is entrusted to the care of another person, very often to grandparents. As long as a parent is not deprived of parental care, that grandmother and grandfather who are often very poor with small pensions cannot receive this allowance for children who, in the meantime, spend their parents for their own needs and at the expense of the child, it is our suggestion that the child’s allowance be paid to the person who is the basis of the decision of the competent authority really takes concrete care of the child. In the context of judicial and protective rights, and this review of the individual problem will be completed, we specifically warn of the fact that we consider the necessary child whenever a criminal procedure is conducted to his harm, especially by parents as perpetrators, to be determined by a collegiate custodian. In public, there was a case where a father as a perpetrator was charged with sexual abuse of a child. After the solicitation, the State's Attorney's office gave up the prosecution which I am asking legitimately for a state-of-law decision, but the father himself couldn't continue the persecution and he didn't want to. The mother did not want to continue the persecution on behalf of the child because he lives with his father and protects him, and the child did not have a college guardian. Of course, we do not prejudge that man would be convicted, but the child should at least have had the chance to, by taking on criminal persecution, try to take on. The second part of the report is a demonstration of the work of the Ombudsman for children towards the improvement of the system as a whole. This describes the lawyer's own initiatives which represent the content of proposals to take measures to build a complete system of protection and, in that sense, a proposal for the establishment of family courts which have been adopted, a proposal on resolving mutual problems with the application of the Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of international child abduction, the defense counsel's proposals to establish a better system of child protection in the field of pre-school education. It is necessary to adopt new standards of pre-school education, which are applied only as of 1983 as a proposal by the Ombudsman for children related to the introduction of health education and education. The report contains some of the very worrying data related to the sexual behaviour of children and young people and related to the sexual health of young people, which the proposal was accepted in the meantime. In keeping with the necessity that the Ombudsman must cooperate with other bodies, activities have been described in the initiatives of others, mainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so in the national strategy of protection against domestic violence, in the catalogues of skills skills, in the decade of Roma involvement, in activities related to child trafficking and last year's UNICEF programme for a safe and stimulating environment in schools. Given our authority to propose measures to prevent harmful actions, we have acted on the protection of children in the media who are once very badly injured, children who beg and protect children from pyrotechnic means. We participated in the preparation of the rules on the accommodation of asylum seekers, asylum seekers and foreigners under temporary protection, and within the framework of the original independent incentives to amend and supplement the provisions of the Family Law on Destiny which we have no knowledge of, and in relation to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and the Law on State wombs and the registration of adoptions in the queen of the born, these two incentives of the Ombudsmans for children have been accepted. Part of the report, here is little more, concerns the visit of children located in institutions in Zagreb, Karlovac, Split, Kaštel Luksic, Dubrovnik, Koprivnica, Sibenik, Kaštel Novi and Požega with a detailed picture of the situation that is really not good in some homes, although even disastrously with recommendations to improve the rights of children's interests within institutional care. In the context of specific activities related to the promotion of children's rights with special needs, cooperation and cooperation with associations of Croatian Associations of Physical Disabilities and the Association for Professional Assistance of Children with Special Needs has been described with recommendations to improve this system that is not sufficient at all, sometimes even minimal. A huge part of the activities of the Ombudsman for children was related to direct encounters with children, because when it comes to children they will not come to the Ombudsman but I believe that the Ombudsman must go among them as well as informing the public about the state of children's rights and ways of protecting those rights. Finally, a special part of the report is dedicated to the conclusions of the UN Children's Rights Committee referred to after the presentation of the second periodic report by the Republic of Croatia on the Committee in September 2004. In particular, I would like to point out to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament that the Committee recommends this report and make the recommendations delivered by the Committee easily available to the public. What we need to determine today is that this Report and the recommendations of the Committee are nowhere to be published except on the website of the Ombudsman for children, which the Convention does not consider to be a quality of easy availability. By respecting the role and importance of the Croatian Parliament, we believe that the attention given by the Assembly as the most representative body of citizens and by the holder of the legislative authority in this country would be given to the above-mentioned report, at least to the Committee's conclusions, given the choice, basis and level at which the issue is discussed, messages and incentives of the executive authorities and to all others to take genuine, comprehensive measures to protect children who, as short as possible, is not sufficient for now. As children are constantly evaluated, we always ask children after we interpret them and the provisions of the Convention of Children's Rights, how they judge adults, and here somewhere we deserve a skinny three. Namely, that's what the kids say. We believe this report will confirm the view that children as a group of weaker ones really need a mediator to resolve their conflict with adults. We have worked really hard to be an honest and committed and active middleman, which, of course, will be the final one for you. I most warmly thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37888	Thank you very much to the attorney for the children. I'm opening a debate. Any of the representatives of the board, perhaps? Two committees? All right, this is the Committee for, fellow Caparin, for? ... For equality. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37889	Honorable vice president, respected attorneys with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament held on 12 April and 21 May 2005 at the 20th session held on 17 May 2005 discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004, which was submitted by the Ombudsman to the president of the Croatian Parliament for children of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 30 March 2005. The Committee discussed the report in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman met the Committee with the Report on the reporting period from 1 January to 31 December 2004, and as such represents the first full annual report. During 2004, the Ombudsman’s Office for Children acted in 524 cases of child rights violations involving 717 children. Concerning that 70% of the injuries were related to infringements of children's personal rights, more than 50% of these injuries involved violations of the right to life with parents and parental care and violations of the right to protection against violence. When it comes to the age structure of children, the largest number of children over 50% is represented between 7 and 14 years of age. The most violations of children's rights were in the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County. A total of 42% of the cases in question, which is attributed to greater awareness and public awareness. While 58% of the remaining cases in question were related to all other counties. The office received 81 reports of violation of the right of the child, and the reports related to the issue of domestic violence, most of which were related to the physical violence of children aged 3 to 6 years and sexual violence aged 7 to 14 years. Members and members of the Committee expressed concern over the 50% increase in domestic violence suffered by children in their families, so-called places where it should be the most protected and secure. There is also an increase in violence among peers. Peer violence has been shown to grow from year to year in Europe. The Committee of the United Nations for the Rights of the Child commended the Republic of Croatia for harmonising legislation in the legal-formal part with international commitments, but concerns were expressed in the implementation section and violence against children. The debate stressed that cases of family-law issues require more effective handling of the competent authority, particularly the social care centre. In such cases, in order to protect the child’s interests, any mistreatment or mistreatment of the competent authorities leads to serious consequences for the development of children. It is also noted that a large number of complaints refer to the work of courts, above all to the slow work of courts in cases relating to the determination and collection of child restraints. It has been pointed out that courts do not often make provisional measures available to them in a legislative sense for the purpose of protecting the child's interest. In this connection, the Committee supported the Ombudsman’s recommendation that the problem of legal child restraint should be addressed in accordance with Article 352. A family law that prescribes the obligation to act as a social care centre in the event of a parent, a child-restraint not fulfilling his duty. In this regard, social care centres may take measures for temporary maintenance until the parent of the abstention obligor begins to meet its obligations again. The Committee also recalls that last year it held a thematic session on the situation of children in single-parent families where a proactive role of the social care centre was deemed necessary. The Committee supports the Ombudsman’s recommendation to set up family departments in existing courts because the opinion is that the judiciary which records the backlog of the 1,3 million cases will not be able to handle child protection professionally or promptly. The debate has repeatedly highlighted that social care centres should provide professional and operational assistance, and so far the workings show a lack of urgency. The ageing of the service is also seen in the preschool system to the extent that it still applies the old invalid regulations of 1983. There is neither early diagnostics nor sufficient numbers of experts, psychologists, educators, logos, and defecologists in the school system. The Committee also pointed out the need for the education of adolescent children on issues of sex in a way that multidisciplinaryly approaches education from an outdated, psychological, physical point of view and others. In the debate, members and members supported the 2004 Ombudsman's 2004 report. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004 is hereby accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37890	Thank you very much, colleague. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37891	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004 to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 30 March 2005 at its 21st session. The report was considered by the Committee as an interested working body. Following the inaugural presentation of the Ombudsman for children, the Committee's members pointed out in particular the importance of strengthening the powers of all the Ombudsmans, as well as the Ombudsmans for children, in order to ensure effective protection of children's fundamental rights. The need for more coordination of all institutions dealing with addressing the problems that children have in society and their insistence on respecting legislation in this area is highlighted. In this way, responsibility would be established for mistreatment of children, both by the Centre for Social Care and by certain institutions where violence against children is covered up, with the aim of ensuring a greater number or between children, pardons, children or between children, schools, homes and competent state authorities. This requires greater involvement of the state with the aim of ensuring a greater number of experts in welfare centres, educational institutions or sensitizing the public for the responsibility of all for children to whom the activities of the Ombudsman for children contributed. The members of the Committee consider it indicative that 32% of the cases covered by the Ombudsman's Office related to violation of children's rights to protection against violence, 48% of which have occurred in the family itself and 52% of cases of violence have occurred in institutions. It points to the need for a deeper analysis of the institution of the family as a basic unit in which children are developed and raised, which is clearly in crisis. Faced with numerous challenges that alone fail to cope, family problems often break at the weakest and most unprotected. Committee members are of the opinion that attention should be paid to the causes of such a situation, most of which are high unemployment and violations of fundamental ethical norms and values in society. The importance of preventive action with the aim of preventing violence is also highlighted, which would significantly contribute to the adoption of activity plans, especially when it comes to prevention of school violence. The Ombudsman has been asked to propose instruments that would allow educational professionals to react to child abuse without being called for the way they are treated. We already had the first result because now, yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Fundamental Education has been discussed, meaning amendments to the law where the Ombudsman proposed the 2 amendments, there are already results of that agreement or appeal. The Committee members supported all proposals by the Ombudsman for children presented in the Report, in particular those relating to continuous supervision and education of experts dealing with family violence issues. Reorganisation of the Social Care Centre in a way that forms teams of experts dealing with only this problem, additional provision of funds for care and financial support to victims of violence and the implementation of safeguards and the adoption of laws and standards to address the problem of integration of children with special needs in the regular system of pre-school education. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that accepted the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37892	In the name of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37893	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that somewhere in the 9th month there will be 2 years since the appointment and formation of the Ombudsman for children and I think that this report, which is before us, shows that it has been completely justified to make a decision on the establishment of such a one defence and shows, unfortunately, that when we talk about children, children are somewhere in verbal terms and at one symbolic level indeed our future, what we often swear, however, really our children in Croatia are quite unprotected and quite their rights are being violated. Also because of a state in which the system not adequately protects children's rights, in which the system often does not function so often as to protect children's rights, I have the feeling that the attorney's office has turned into a kind of fireman and that our citizens often get the feeling that they're hitting their heads against the wall and that they can't fight for their child's rights to remain as their last straw of salvation, as the last institution they address and ask them to do often times and something that is beyond their authority. It can be concluded from this Report that the system is inert, that most of the system does not respect the laws, that often times social care centres that are certainly not working in accordance with the law today, do not respect all of their legal issues, and do not implement all of their legal obligations under the Family Law and some other laws, do not use one part of their powers to support children. Also, this report shows that we have a lack of mental health experts, both in social care centres and in schools, and also in kindergartens and in health institutions, we have a lack of experts who can at some point actually be the only help to our children. And I think that all of what I have stated here as conclusions that can be drawn from this very extensive report by the child's attorney may also be concluded that, in many cases, there is a certain responsibility of individuals for non-implementation of the law, so I think that until the responsibility of individuals begins to determine and some individuals experience loss of employment because they violate the law and abuse children, I don't think that there will be much benefit from our appeals. Also when it comes to criminal responsibility, when it comes to child abuse, so until they begin to punish very high sentences for abusers, there will also be no good social message that violence against children is something that is socially unacceptable and that should be well and strongly sanctioned. When it comes to social care centres here, it is most often stated that social care centres are very difficult to take parental care of a child, I think it is really a problem that we are still enslaved to one consciousness, which is that biological parents have absolute rights and that their right to protect them, I think that the focus should finally be shifted to children's rights, because the real right of a child is to have a family and I think that the right of a child if parents don't care about him then it is the right of that child to get a replacement family in which he will be much better off than to stay in an institution by 18 years. And we slave one form, and it is that within 3 months a parent can call the institutions and ask how his child is, so we satisfy the form, the child of that parent absolutely has nothing, no love, no care, in that part should go long before the move to take parental care, so that as soon as possible we allow that child a healthy environment in which he will live, because no matter how many aunts in those institutions really care for these children, institutions, and they are aware of it, they are actually the last variant in which the child should grow up. I would also like to point out one example here, which confirms the kind of institutional abuse of a child, when, for example, decisions are made on who the child is going to live with. Namely, one case shows how to harm a child, a girl's case, which I won't mention here because it's completely irrelevant, a girl who lost her father, mother, and brother in a car accident and stayed alive in that accident, the girl lived with her parents overnight without both parents. Unfortunately, the social care centre has brought an assessment that it is much more important for this child to go to a foster family that is unfortunately on the other side of Croatia, which is in a completely different city and I think this was an additional institutional abuse of a child because the child had an opportunity with another relative living in the same town, to go to the same kindergarten with children with whom he had grown up for six years. I think the additional trauma of moving to another city, to another environment absolutely did not need it, not to say that this little girl did not go through the mourning process at all because she had no one to help her in the center that is now in charge of her health and her next life. There's not a single psychologist in that center right now. So he's waiting for someone to come. In the meantime, the child is without any help to get through all his problems somewhere and to get through all the trauma somehow. If it doesn't go through these traumas now, it may be in a period of puberty when it will come out who knows which way and how. It should also be said that the problem of centers that rarely go into business when it comes to socializing with parents. Unfortunately, our divorce parents do not divorce each other but often solve their problems over the back of children, children are subject to their problems or property, or any other emotional or other nature, and unfortunately often fail to respect the decision of the welfare center with whom the child will be and how much the child will be able to see another parent. Thus, there is no or very rare use of all the mechanisms that social care centres have to ensure the child’s right to see both parents. When it comes to alimony, we've been here a few times opening up this problem. I think it is a very big problem to determine alimony, but it should also be said that centres and in that part do not use all of their mechanisms and rights that they have and, unfortunately, parents do not know what the rights and obligations of the welfare centre are when it comes to alimony payments. I will just read here an article of the law that says: "In the event of a powerful court decision or a child-restraint agreement, if the obligor does not meet the same obligation for more than three months, the social care centre is obliged to propose another parent but also to take measures to provide temporary maintenance funds until the parent of the abstentionary begins to resuscitate its obligation." Therefore, there is one solution which unfortunately does not work in practice and we are all aware that mostly parents cannot fight for alimony, that in all possible ways with all possible imaginations by one parent avoid paying child support. But we should also say that our case-law is quite unequal, so the child does not have the same needs in Zagreb, Split or Osijek, so it depends on where someone judges. It should also be said that when it comes to children living in institutions, therefore, who are temporarily located in institutions that it is much better for these children to go to foster families, I think that there is this INUCEF action that has been carried out in the last month and it is still going on about encouraging people to foster foster care but also to organise a systematic education of these people and what the Ombudsman said a little order in foster care and when it comes to the number of children who can be placed in one family but also help these people because children who have and behavioral disorders come to them, therefore a lot more needs to be done. And I think you should separate some of those assets that are really for the needs of the child but also those funds that are then compensation to those people for taking care of those children. One of the great chapters is quite certain and family violence, a violence which unfortunately has too much. We tried over the past period when we were in power to pass some laws that at least in that part would provide much more effective punishment for family violence. We tried to do a little procedure in the Family Court Act when a child is found in a criminal procedure easier for a child, reduce the number of child trials and also try to examine that child through a video connection so that the child does not have a bunch of people who question him and put pressure on him and further traumatize him than that of one person, therefore the one closest to him, so one of the experts of mental health in whom the child trusts but who knows how to ask the question to get the full truth from him and not to manipulate the child. Unfortunately, one part of the court is not yet equipped with this equipment. It is still happening that a child is being questioned much more than what is lawfully allowed. However, I would like to say that perhaps the same big problem is a little pronunciation or a low sentence that is pronounced for those who sexually abuse children because all those who are in any way referred to this problem then know that those children who are sexually abused are children who are actually killed. They are children who have such severe trauma to live but their life and quality of life are truly very questionable. I came into possession of something the paper was writing about the other day. This is the Supreme Court ruling, for example, which has completely neutralized everything the child of 3.5 years has said. The child said a lot about what his own father did to him. Now I'm not going to read you some details here, although I have to admit that I've been thinking about it a little bit, and I think it would be good to hear what a three-and-a-half-year-old kid is talking about what his own father did to him, and trust me, every single one of you here would have turned your stomach because even the most perverse mind couldn't come up with such actions over its own three-and-a-half-year-old child. A child who did not see it, who did not live through such monstrous activities, such erotic fantasies certainly could not have and could not bear witness to it. But unfortunately, for our judiciary, for our judiciary, it's a part of our judges that's very questionable because it's much more important to them than the child said and in what form of language rather than how it is possible for a child of three and a half years of age to testify to such filth as he witnessed. And unfortunately, the very low verdict of only 2 years and 6 months he received now has been annulled by the Supreme Court. I think it's a very bad message. This is a message unfortunately to abusers of your own child you can continue to do so because unfortunately one part of the judiciary, unfortunately this time and the Supreme Court as a very high judicial instance, has made a decision that the child and his testimony are under a great questionnaire. Kids should be trusted, children don't lie about it especially when they're so young because that kid who hasn't seen penguins will hardly know how to draw it. And I'd like to say something about school violence and institutions. In fact, there is a really big problem with still insufficient education. I think many are also needed about what is their legal obligation. The Penal Code says that anyone who works with a child in any way learns some details about the fact that certain violence is committed either among children or children that he is obliged to report. It's not for these people to do an investigation, to find out if it's true and who's to blame. It's theirs to report it to the competent institutions. So it's something that I think most employees don't know. Similarly, there is no good coordination and cooperation between all those who should cooperate, and these are centres, police, schools, kindergartens, unfortunately both in preschools and in primary and secondary schools we still do not have a mental health expert who can help children who come from troubled families, who are therefore not responsible for problems they do not know how to deal with. So this is something where we should also help people who work with these children because those who have been educated to be professors don't have to be psychologists and mental health professionals, so they don't have to have that part of the knowledge. Hence, there are others who must help them. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, we will therefore support this report, and we would love to read this report in many ministries to see what can be done to make this report a second time with as little violation of children's rights as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37894	Thank you. A word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union Representatives' Club. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37895	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004 was discussed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and I must begin by saying that they will accept it. The report is very comprehensive and shows a number of situations in which children today are exposed through the influence of both the media and the family and the environment in which they live. The introduction of this report found that the Law on the Ombudsman for Children entered into force in June 2003 and since then, the Republic of Croatia, the Government has established a special body of the Ombudsman institution for children, which will provide for their rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia also ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and thus assumed the obligation to implement it, as well as to amend and adapt the laws in accordance with the Convention, which means that it has committed itself to increasing the care of children, youth and minors, as well as to protecting children from all forms of physical and mental violence. Unlike the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children in 2003, which referred to a time period of only three months and a whole series of difficulties in setting up the office, the 2004 report shows us the work and views of the Ombudsman for children related to pre-arranged and planned activities. In the report itself, the Ombudsman pointed out that by acting and pawning, she is an intermediary between children and, as she says, the duties of adults to assist them in the exercise of these rights. During 2004, the D.A.'s Office acted in 524 cases. In total, 717 children were included in these cases. Of this, 70% of children's personal rights violations were related to the violation of the right to live with parents and parental care and violation of the right to protection against violence. Unfortunately, during life, children are exposed to a number of stressful situations, traumatic conditions, and alone they cannot resist all the temptations that are great today. Every single one of us who was a child himself must have a truly developed sensitivity to this problem. Thus, besides children provided with good conditions for life and development when they have enough food, good health care, schooling, a loving relationship with a child would be needed for adults to deal with all their problems and their participation in their lives. In her report, the Ombudsman noted that despite numerous progress in the area of protection of children's rights, which have been more talked about and more publicised over the past year, the level of protection of children's rights is still not satisfactory. The biggest problem is highlighted in the work of the social care centre, as well as in the problem of the social care system as a whole. The lack of expert personnel and the need to educate them have been observed. Problems in payment and child restraint have also been identified, as well as unequal case-law on issues of the child's total needs and obligations of the ministry to determine the amount of funds to support the child. Last year, the minister of justice did so and determined the exact amount to support the children. The Ombudsman also noticed the problem of fostering children, especially the inequality of the distribution of foster families in Croatia. It is particularly pointed out that the ministry has undertaken some activities to improve foster care in Croatia, which is also pointed out by counterpart Opačić, some legal improvements have also been observed, as regards the issue of foster licenses, their renewal after two years. An obligation to educate foster parents has been introduced. The number of foster children in a family has been reduced, as well as the special conditions that the family must meet in order to foster children at all. I mean here and on living conditions. The Household Declaration was also adopted. Cooperation with associations, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has been achieved. And it's very important to point out, and here's the UNICEF action already mentioned here, "Every child needs a family." She paid particular attention to the Ombudsman in her report to institutions and homes. Of course, the problem of violence against children is a very complex problem. But it's particularly worrying about 50% increase in domestic violence. Although family is a place of security, at least it should be, and emotional heat, where every child should feel safe, the report says that very often it is not. In addition to being involved in solving concrete problems, it is very important to point out in its report that she participated in the development of a National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence for the period 2005-2007 brought by the government in December last year. This strategy sets as a basic goal the prevention of domestic violence, the mitigation of the consequences of the violence already committed, the improvement of cooperation and the coordinated action of all competent authorities, the education and sensitisation of the public for these problems. Violence in institutions, schools and homes is growing, which should be of particular concern to us. In this area, the Ombudsman was actively involved in the development of a programme of activities to prevent violence between children and young people and the National Strategy for the Protection of Family Violence. In solving this problem, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has taken up a wide range of activities, and already here it is mentioned in the report of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that the Ombudsman herself has proposed, in the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the Charter on Fundamental Education, two amendments to this Committee, which have been adopted in order to prevent this particular relationship with children and committee. The Ombudsman also observed a violation of educational rights which mainly referred to very poor conditions in which children are educated and raised, health rights, the rights to social and economic rights and judicial protection of rights. I believe that a presentation of the Croatian national educational standard in our primary schools is under way, in a public debate, and that standard will indeed contribute to all children, wherever they are educated, have equal conditions for education. The task of each country is to care for the welfare of children as building a complete system of protection and promoting the rights and interests of children in certain areas of life. The Ombudsman participated in activities aimed at improving children's conditions within the framework of her powers. It is commendable that the Ombudsman encouraged the establishment of a family department in the courts in order to achieve an up-to-date manner in solving cases relating to children's rights. During their lives, children face many stressful and traumatic events that leave different consequences for their future. The report also shows in everyday life that children’s rights and protection of their privacy are often abused in the media and the public. The report noted a number of situations where these rights were at risk. In order to address these phenomena, measures to prevent harmful actions that threaten children's rights and interests have also been pointed out, in particular the problem of children begging on the street and protecting children from pyrotechnic means, which is important in areas that have been threatened by war. Finally, the Ombudsman also lists the activities carried out by the office for the purpose of protecting and promoting the rights and well-being of children. The report shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is creating more and more conditions and is paying more attention to family problems, young people with a whole series of actions in an effort to reduce and prevent violence against and among children. It is commendable that the Ombudsman is involved in the creation of many documents, programmes and strategies in the last year to create the best conditions to address this problem. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004 accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37896	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSP club has a distinguished representative, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club supports this report, but with a few remarks. In this report on the work of the Ombudsman for children, we see that the lawyer's office has acted... the case, and 717 children were involved in these cases. [[You don't understand.]] And we know that violence was physical and psychological, but I'm curious, it's not exactly named here, I'm interested in who was involved and what sanctions were taken if we know that they're in schools, for example. I am interested in what sanctions were taken in this regard, what kind of sanctions they are, and how many sanctions they have taken against workers in social care centres because the personal calls of people who know that workers in welfare centres were biased where they hid things on behalf of their friends or parents. We also know some parents who reported other parents, and in some cases it was not true, whether any sanctions were taken against those parents who reported to another parent, which destroyed his career, destroyed his life, friends retreated, and eventually when it was found out that it was not true at all, whether any sanctions were taken against those parents who reported false acts. I'm interested in the same thing when the D.A. finds out about all these irregularities, she has to notify all these competent authorities and now I'm curious about which institutions they've scheduled. I'd like to list who's protecting those offenders, who's protecting those abusers because then we can look for certain sanctions. If we don't know who's protecting these people, and we're reading these people in the paper that they're some kind of family people, that they're honest and hardworking workers, if that honest and hardworking man next door abused his three- or four-year-old kid, then he's not a decent and hardworking man, and these people need to be severely punished. We at the HSP Club know that in Croatia, bureaucracy is slow and that the judiciary is slow, but we did expect that this report will clearly stand for the sanctions taken against the abusers, which cases have been brought to an end, which the institutions have failed, because when it comes to children there is no protection for anyone, and if it doesn't mean anything, this report is about just collecting statistics. And in the end, I'd just like to mention the Bezovica case. It's already forgotten, journalists don't write about it anymore, but I have reliable information that the D.A. was there and that she found out about the actions that were going on there, and I'd like to, in fact, ask on behalf of the HSP club to make the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37898	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club PGS, the esteemed representative of the Chichin-Shain Košisa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37899	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. This is a comprehensively quite general report later written as a good essay, but I think you will agree that from this report we cannot read what is most important, what policy the Republic of Croatia implements in the protection of children, i.e. the lack of data on the practical solution to the protection of children's rights, which is what Mrs. Ruza just said earlier, what are sanctions against those who violate children's rights. Speaking of social care centres as the strongest network of child care, it is certainly true that the report submitted by the applicant does not have a sufficient number of adequate experts due to the fact that there are overruns in many cases, but because of these allegations, we consider it necessary to report and specify the number of centres for social care in the Republic of Croatia, the number of professional and professional staff and other staff working in the centres, the number of items for each centre individually, the amount of the state budget, how many procedures have been resolved and how they have been resolved, the positive results of the work of those centres, whether all the centres cooperate with the children's defender, whether there have been complaints on the work of centres and which, in the work of the Centre for Social Work have been identified irregularities, such as, where, which has been taken place, etc. An insufficient number of professional staff is the reason for the multiple overrun in many administrative cases either in the adoption of first-degree solutions, or in the adoption of a solution to the appeal. Where more significant additional employment in the budgetary circumstances concerned is impossible, why is it not possible to establish a norm for the settlement of the case in the administrative procedure, and any further settlement of the case individually does not be subject to the exclusion of cases which are rejected due to a lack of documentation. Why individual experts such as psychologists and psychiatrists are not used contractually in some other institutions, especially considering this in the context of the transition of part of the responsibility of the social care centre to the jurisdiction of the courts. The Social Care Centres are certainly looking for a more significant organisational redesign, continuous administrative supervision, proactive engagement against today's passive and slow work in the centre, and a primary commitment to the permanent education of all employees. The measures to monitor the enforcement of parental care considered to be one of the most effective measures of family and legal protection shall not be sufficiently pronounced, but shall not be pronounced or expressed in due time or shall be carried out only formally. The Social Care Centres shall use their powers to protect the rights of the child's interests insufficiently in the proceedings before the court. Insufficiently includes the delivery of facts that the parties have not presented, insufficiently suggest the implementation of evidence and invest legal medicines. There's an impression of the tromostness and bureaucratism of an institution that we'll all agree we should, but not in this way. One of the common problems with this office is the issue of supporting children divorced parents as well as extramarital children with established paternity. A large number of parents, especially fathers, deliberately avoid employment, change jobs, and in all ways avoid paying child support. I appreciate the prosecutor's efforts to focus in this report on the long-term length of judicial proceedings in litigation for the determination of restraints and enforcement procedures and the length of criminal proceedings for the criminal offences of the violation of the maintenance duty. An unresolved issue of child restraint during long-term proceedings has also been observed and insufficient consumption of the possibility of a solution to temporary measures in order to support the case. There is a particular problem in proving the actual total income of the abstention debtors. In this segment, the Ombudsman could and had to give far more radical solutions, not only to identify the situations she encountered, as the situation is known to almost the entire Croatian population. The approach needs to be completely changed. It should start with not minimally requiring a child but being an optimist and ensuring a decent life for a child. This should be the starting point, and good income and luxury expenses are just additional arguments that the supporter then pays more and more. A commitment must be made once and for all, even if it is at the cost of swimming the assets of the supporter, the property of his parents, his marriage mates, business partners, and so on. I believe that such a measure would give greater seriousness and credibility to respect for these obligations. Unfortunately, the 2004 report did not mention such defence activities. In addition, the chapter on illegal immigration and child retention states that the Ministry of Health and Social Care has submitted 7 requests to central authorities of other countries and has received 6 requests from abroad. That it acted in 11 cases, but with all due respect in a long-term solution to the complexity of the case, there is no indication of how it was solved and how. Householding is one of the happier ways to take care of children without parental care. In Croatia today there are about 2,000 700 children without parental care, with about a thousand 200 children in foster families. From the aspect of fostering a child, as pointed out, it is important to have continuity in raising a child, it is important to have ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic origin. How the distribution of foster families is quite uneven there is an interesting project of the Children and Islands Association, which is precisely based on the advantages of fostering children in foster families on islands. These families on the islands are often financially able to take care of children without worry, to enable the growth and development of children in a healthy environment and quality psychophysical development, which also provides the possibility of rejuvenation of the island, continuity of school work and permanent preservation of life on islands. A grateful project, I hope, will be recognized by the authorities as well. What are the problems with foster care? The new Regulation defines that 5 are the largest number of foster children in one foster family. Of course, there are problems with those families that have had more children than before because it is certainly traumatic to change one foster family for another. Some families may also accept the opening of family homes that allow up to 12 children, but legal acts define that they must employ a nurse, social workers, and other qualified staff. As it is driven by it, it is mainly about people who are either special sensitivity or education such as educator, psychologist, or defectologists who may well consider some more flexible circumstances for the opening of such family homes. The problem of the foster parent is certainly compensation. The fee of a thousand 440 kuna for a preschool child and a thousand 600 kuna for a school child, is embarrassingly small since we know from our personal life how much food, clothing, footwear, entertainment, cinema, theatre, sports, school and extracurricular activities, school books, for example. In particular, these incomes are disproportionate to the incomes of 2 and a half thousand kunas that receive homes for children. Why is such a difference and what does it actually come from? But problems are also different in nature. For example, more than 130 children are at home under 3 years of age. Household problems arise in situations where, for example, a child or even brothers or sisters are fostered at the age of several months, and a judicial procedure to take away parental rights to biological parents lasts 6, sometimes up to 8 years of age. After eight years in a family that is often viewed as a single child, they go for adoption into a third family. The more the foster family becomes disabling even any knowledge and further contact with the child after the adjustment period. In the report, a large part is dedicated to violence and this is particularly to domestic violence and is an astounding information about 4000 390 cases of domestic violence in the presence of a child and the number of 10,000 672 when police informed the Centre for Social Care about violence, to take measures of family and legal protection of children. The trend in reporting is worrying, but there are even more worrying figures that are not known and the fact that the existing system of protection and mode of intervention is not nearly satisfactory. Very often domestic violence is not even revealed because marriage partners are protected for a variety of reasons, and they cover it up, and from young children... he just finds out gradually through strange behaviors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it is finally processed, are the punishments, whether they are or not, and what is this message to potential abusers? You're still doing it. What is the pro-active position of a society, i.e. the attorney for children in situations other than exceptions, where some parents are completely irresponsiblely giving birth to children who, one by one, end up in a home or in a foster home, on the burden of society. What can the Ombudsman initiate to prevent such a parent from giving birth to children who are often either mentally retarded or at least before birth traumatized. As far as domestic violence is concerned, the best way to do it is to do it as often as possible and unannounced controls. Because just the events that have been happening lately since the events in Mali Losinj, where the peer is a victim, and the educational staff in the inability to impose any authority and protect others from a few of the protégés deviant behaviours, points to a completely missed system of education and disturbed relations of the breeder – the protégénik, as well as the building up of the entirely wrong values of the protégés whose handful of bandits is set as a model of education because it dominates the whole group. Another example from the media these days is Karitas's home in Brezovica where there is an indication of child abuse and child abuse, both by the testimony of former protégés, but also by the breeder of what needs to be investigated in any case, and taught by this experience and significantly strengthen the control of direct supervision but also in written and oral communication with the protégés in some other areas outside the home. This is also a warning that such talks, controls and surveillance should be conducted in all countries in Croatia as often as possible and on a regular basis. The report in the chapter "Violences in Educational Educational Institutions" very modernly observes this issue particularly in the segment of peer violence, popularly referred to as "bulling" but noting that this approach is successful in societies that have fully developed infrastructure and pedagogological support that today in the Republic of Croatia is not a situation. Access to this problem should be seen in the context of the material and professional opportunities of our society. And although it is necessary to pursue measures of integrated approach to education and education reform in the system of education, it is a long-term transition process that cannot be brought to life at once. And problems occur daily and increasingly and should be considered about short-term and final solutions using more what the system traditionally recognizes us, and this is an existing network of teachers and teachers – professors. Additional and regular training and training of teachers and teachers in the form of seminars, workshops or courses would achieve better quality psychological and pedagogical support for students, especially in those schools and environments where there are no professional staff in the form of psychologists, sociologists, educators, defecologists and the like. It would also significantly rehabilitate the system of respect for the authority of teachers and teachers. At some further stage, such educated staff would have seen some strange behaviour in children and would have acted preventively and/or more fully with professional support from psychologists. It is precisely the frequent protests of teachers and teachers' unions that result not only from weak material opportunities but also from systematic degradation of the role of teacher – professor in our society. The attached Report is unfortunately not clear what kind of policy the Republic of Croatia implements in the care and protection of the child in 2004. The Law on the Ombudsman for Children provides that the Ombudsman protects, monitors and promotes the rights of the child, primarily protects, and should, in Chapter 12 where it writes, speak of conclusions, decidedly state what results from the work of the Ombudsman for children in 2004 with regard to the protection of the rights of the child, as well as give concrete proposals to achieve the best possible results of protection. Except there's been a series of problems in the entire protection of children. We from the HNS-PGS Club will accept this Report even though we are not fully satisfied with it, or we are not satisfied with what was done on the plan for the violation of children's rights. And we hope that this year's report will be much more comprehensive and more content in that direction. It is certainly indisputable, and this report specifically emphasises that today, in our society, the care of children is necessary and fully justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37900	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37901	Thank you very much, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague's representative, she said that due to the indication of child abuse, an investigation should be carried out in Bezovica. I would tell my colleague that it was incorrect, the investigation was conducted and it proved that there were no irregularities in Bezovica. Unfortunately, once again, children have been abused by the fact that some political options have been involved, and for the purpose of the election campaign, it is true for you, because I live in Bezovica, every day I am there with the breeders and staff and, of course, a lot of visits and children, in a humanitarian way, not in any other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37902	You've corrected an incorrect quote, thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Matijević-Vrsaljko, the lawyer for children, asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37903	I will show myself to everything that is actually said at the presentations, but several times in all the exhibitions is an open question of the children's home in Brezovica, it is actually two institutions of the institution of social care, so I consider the Croatian Parliament to report on the actions and knowledge of the Ombudsman for children in this case publicly and openly, and I thought I would do so with a special report in the Croatian Parliament. FROM your questions, I can conclude from all the questions about the child care shown in this case, not only can I share that concern with you but I will choose words that will be just and show what I feel the greatest concern and dissatisfaction. This concern does not concern what happened or did not happen in Bezovica, unfortunately this concern and dissatisfaction is related to the quality, scope and course of action and the dynamics of the conduct of the competent state authorities to clear this case up. In particular, it is two institutions of social care, a home for children without adequate parental care and for children with developmental difficulties, which in the summer when there was a report of suspicion of abuse of a brave phone were 135 in both institutions together. The key issue in this case is not what happened, because the answer to what happened could only be known that in this case an investigation was conducted but in this case a criminal-law investigation so far has not been carried out, only administrative inspection has been carried out and there have been not been any informed discussions and police actions or investigations in the criminal sense so far. What is very controversial to me as a guardian for children in this case is the following, so not what happened but as the state and all the competent institutions are the question of the responsibility that Mrs. Tomasic has raised, who is responsible, for me in this case everyone is responsible, because I do not think that he has taken all the necessary steps to clear this case up. In particular, not on the principles of the Convention concerning the best interests of the child, and according to the constitutional principles prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that the State should put in place special care for children without adequate parental care. And I should now elaborate on what is especially in the process and after you allow me to present some facts and I will take good care not to present any of those that would endanger the right to the protection of the child's privacy, so you will conclude this on your own, and I believe after this, that the Croatian Parliament will, even after a special report, give any committee, commission or other appropriate consideration to this case. Not to establish guilt because there is a jurisdiction to do so but to perhaps find out that more is never the matter of doubt and adjudication of child abuse that must not be done. Who knows that during the administrative surveillance he was, I'll tell you what he was like when things were targeted, focused and focused, maybe the case was processed today, maybe we'd have a criminal verdict, like this after two years, and more than that, we can just figure out the sad fact of the course of time that always goes to the harm of a prejudicial defendant, and to the harm of a prejudicial damage, because we all know how hard it is to prove after two, three, five years. When we talk about human rights, then we talk about something called access to justice, it's about children, like our children, what we would do for our own children, that there's a suspicion that something was wrong, I'm not talking and it was good to not say that something was wrong, but... suspected, we would lead our children to a doctor, lead them to experts, rush the case, hire a lawyer, seek professional treatment, take an interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to here and the Parliament will bring the answer to the question whether the state as a substitute parent did it for these children, I don't think so. The underage children cannot represent themselves, and especially not the sick children and children without adequate parental care and the question of what would we, on the alert, do for our own children and let this be a criterion and answer to this question of the Croatian State as a replacement parent. From what we can conclude from the particular care for children, from the fact that the administrative oversight carried out, the representative spoke about the investigation, so it was two bodies, two-way, police and the Ministry. The ministry carried out surveillance within a relatively short time after the tip was received, however, the supervision concerned the absence of general acts, working relations, toilets, professional staff, did not focus at all on the content of the allegations of the application. Of the 135 children, it was discussed with 11 whom the home had chosen as children who could mentally and time-chronologically conclude what it was about, what about the others. So there was not even a targeted survey on whether we could conclude on special care for children that the Center for Social Care New Zagreb reported a call from the Brave Phone primarily delivered to the notified institution, that we perpetrators of a criminal offence would have obtained the content of the criminal application before giving a statement to the investigating judge. Could we conclude that after 2002, until today, after again media reports and again the media are conducting an investigation in this country, there was never any control inspection in the home. And the fourth thing, I saw the police file, the police file, the police were acting very hasty after 2002, and then the dynamics slowed down, the reasons I don't know, and I don't want to guess because it seems to me that in this role to speculate is unserious. The investigation, police action, in some things is over, in some things as far as I can tell from the special report has not been completed until today, today summer of 2005, and the announcement was made in the summer of 2002, whether in such a case three years could be considered particularly hasty by the police. If and if the social care system that was doing this surveillance were interested in establishing the police system, it would then be determined that the fact that the police established the system differs significantly from what the childcare system established. And the question is whether systems can be heard when it comes to child protection, mostly children, are placed in institutions. AT THE time of even administrative surveillance, the police had a large majority of citizens at the 6th and 9th months who reportedly proved that many things were not good. Why isn't it processed, has there been a statute of limitations, whether there have been other conditions that rule out prosecution? I'm sure the State's Attorney's office has its reasons. I allow my view of children's rights to differ from that of the State's Attorney's office. What is important in this case regardless of whether there will be or will be no criminal proceedings and whether or not it was important that the welfare system has shown complete indifference to what the police have identified because the protection of the child under the social care system does not apply only to the criminal-legal aspect but is far wider. I talked to a little girl in Bezovica who was 19 today who was a child, who said I didn't give up and say. So I'm not going to tell you about her being raped, beaten or anything or not. She was called a girl from the window because she wasn't allowed to play, she was grounded when she did something. We asked her a colleague and I how long she was grounded. Six months. Is that a crime? Maybe not. Whether a child who is grounded in a window should not be played with by peers for six months. Is this inappropriate treatment of children? It's a euphemism for the worst thing you can imagine. She asked me to talk to the D.A. about it to anyone who wanted to listen. I'm telling you. I can't judge what happened in Brezovica. I don't even have the authority to determine that. What I can certainly say is that the fact that the two administrative bodies working on the same case differ significantly. You're looking for special reports from the police. They must give you an insight into the Croatian Parliament and read it. What I'd still like to say is that one event from all those facts that, even I've been working as a state's attorney, is out of date. A lot of things are out of date. One part, one event which is only one single event according to my assessment is not obsolete, it's working on... The abuse of a child, I filed a criminal charges case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all the skepticism about her fate, since it's been between six and seven years to prove it. I have no one to turn to. The subject has already been to the administrative bodies. Don't tell me to get reports from the authorities because I've been looking for them. If I had the authority, I'd complete the subject myself. What do you think of me as the power of this Parliament, which, however, everyone in the vast majority has given support and I think the Croatian Parliament supports and loves me. I think he's doing it justifiably. That I couldn't get an insight into the police file normally, politely reviewing the file, but my colleague and I were on our knees a week ago holding a police file and cheating. What do you think of this kind of treatment for children's lawyers in the first place? I'm begging you. I'm giving you a request from the little girl from the window. Set up a commission, a commission, a committee not to punish someone but to see for yourself what happened in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37904	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37905	Thank you. There's only one thing I'd like to fix. I agree, just to say before the papers, you said that children were targeted, eleven children that could only be talked to. I used to come to that house every day almost, and it's close to me, and I was worried about what was going on. However, I have a completely different interpretation. The children are practically chosen on the other hand on purpose and brought to a conversation, especially as far as the matter is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37906	I know the subject is tangible but correct an incorrect quote. Don't go into debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37907	Well, that's, I want to make it right. I'm saying it's not true that the targeted children were brought in. The press came in, the kids were scared of the press. The children were so frightened that they were afraid when there was a time of theme that the home would close. And it's quite wrong that someone was bringing children, me as far as I could see. Secondly, I think you're just looking at the case on the one hand and you're not looking at it on the other. I'm, you're quite right when you say that the bodies don't execute in time for these children, but the other side needs to look at how the other side speaks because it's unilaterally directed towards the problem, unilaterally.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37908	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 207(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. The word has on behalf of the HSS Club the distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, colleagues and fellow MPs! In front of us is the first full report by the Ombudsman for children who, as a special body, established by the Croatian Government with the task of protecting, monitoring and promoting the rights of children under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, other international agreements and the law. The report contains a factual state and is immutable. However, data from the report should be used to look at the existing situation and find solutions to the identified problems. We haven't done anything if we just accept the submitted report because we're going to get a similar one a year and the observed problems are just going to increase. What we can conclude from this report is that children's rights in Croatia are being violated and there is no complete system of protection and promotion of the rights and interests of children. What rights are being broken? All rights are violated and of the total number of cases in question 70% relate to personal rights violations, violation of the right to life with parents and parental care and violation of the right to protection against violence. Whether we want to or not to consider this report, we must return to the importance of the family both in the life of the child and in the functioning of the state community with which they are founded and placed in the family. Every child's first experience, the first encounter with the world is experienced in the family. The family should be an ambience of security, stability, warmth and mutual love. In such an environment, the inevitable contribution is both parents, the child is formed into a member of the social community. It has a need for the fullness that both father and mother make together. The circle is the reality that our families are getting further away from the desired ideal. Our families are falling apart and love stands in a place of impatience that culminates in mutual hatred. Direct victims of such changes become children who love both father and mother equally. Ex - mates ’ accounts often take place through children. In all possible ways, it wants to make it impossible to meet a child with another parent and it goes all the way to moving to other countries and to other continents. A meeting that is by nature of things occasionally cannot compensate for the nature of the child's need for both parents. According to our constitution, the family is under special protection from the state. Is the state fulfilling its obligation to protect the family? We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party think not. Here's why. The state did not provide the family with a fundamental assumption of stability, which is material security. For material safety it is necessary to be able to work and live from your work. As long as the unemployment rate is around 20%, in some counties over 50% can't be said to have secured the ability to work. And then when someone's lucky to do work-law status is insecure. The worker is unprotected and exposed to the will of employers to the extent that workers themselves say they work in the slave system. Of course, we have formally protected the worker, but the worker does not consume his rights and should not in practice complain. The state has not found any payment insurance mechanisms earned, and adequate pay cannot even be spoken of. Under these conditions it is perfectly understandable that dissatisfaction and anxiety from the working environment is passed on to the family. It involves violence, and the end is divorce, and sometimes the murder of a mate. And the kids? They're traumatized, rarely with life consequences. We have a family ministry that should protect the family through various programs, help maintain the family as a fundamental unit of society. In the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament approved funds for improving the quality of family life and the development of family services amounting to 3 million kuna, of which only one million and a 47% were realised by 10.11.2004. Only 436 thousand or 49% were invested to monitor and improve family policy. For projects for multi-member families, we approved 4 million and 140 thousand kuna, and the Ministry invested only 699 thousand or 16%. What does that mean? This means that the Family Ministry has no knowledge of the creation and implementation of projects to protect the stability of the family. And the consequences of this, children suffer through violation of their personal right to live with their parents and parental care, and they will continue to provide us with an attorney for children with future reports. The most frequently injured right is the right to protect against violence. Violence is present in the family, in kindergarten, in school and so on. Today’s greatest moral problem is violence that includes mental, physical, and sexual abuse. Unfortunately, before that problem, eyes are still closing today. In the family, violence is kept secret and kept behind locked doors. It is not often when a competent person registers to return it inside the home walls, and the notifier faces a judgment of the environment because, under quotes, he does not wash his dirty laundry in his house. The most common victims of domestic violence are children, and the Ministry of Family Protection for the Protection of Victims of Violence in the Family approved millions of kunas invested only 470,000 kunas or 45%. Re-providing that the competent ministry is not capable of dealing with a problem that is evident. More than worrying is the increase of violence in schools among peers as well as the emergence of violence in kindergartens. We at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party believe that the starting point of these problems is in the family. Available data suggests that bullyes in schools and kindergartens are children who themselves are victims of violence in their own families. In today’s society, families as well as family roles have been neglected. Today it is not the atmosphere of peace, warmth, security, closeness and love. Family members are becoming more and more strangers who meet in the house only in passing. Parents have no time or patience for parental role, expecting kindergartens and schools to take over what is natural for parents and as a right but also as a obligation. With the passing of their own roles, often parents do not accept that their child has behavioral problems, and that is when they are responsible for the care of the parent, teacher, teacher. None of them can replace basic home education and, therefore, the attorney general's report is not surprising. With insufficient attention in the family, observed injustices in schools and colleges lead to frustrations manifested in various ways and violence against peers as well as teachers and teachers. Essentially eroded society and social relations in each segment leave their negative traces, and it is unfortunate that no children are excluded from it. Even before reality, no eyes should be closed and therefore it is unforgivable and unforgivable for the Ministry of the Family of Law and Child Protection to invest only 480, 418 thousand kuna or 16% in the last year. For the prevention of behavioural disturbances of children and young people from the planned million 527, only 418 thousand or 27% are invested. In this way, the identified problems are not solved, and as long as we do, we will accept the defense attorney's report every year, but the picture of reality will not become more pink. Because of the poor economic situation, many children have been denied the right to education. Not that parents wouldn't want to send their kids to school. I'd love to. But the money for the bus just doesn't exist. This right is particularly denied to children living in the country. Let's not fool ourselves that there are no gifted children in the country. There are many of them, but their parents do not have 900 kuna per month for a bus ticket, and about a child’s clothing to be approximately their colleagues is not a word. Maybe that isolation is one of the reasons that will lead to behavioral disorders. This society makes serious failures by neglecting the family as the foundation of a healthy society, and accounts for the failures already slowly arrive. I think it is evident from this report and from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts the prosecutor's report for children in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37910	Thank you. We're done with this morning's work. It's 15 o'clock. It is up to the IDS Club, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, and before that will be on behalf of the promoter, Ms Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljaljko. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37911	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004. On behalf of the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37912	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a report that we could say is good, that it's not about the ugly things that are written in the report, but my God, the facts are what they are and we can't get away from it. We need to deal with the problems ahead of us. I really want to begin by thanking the D.A. and her team for their hard work in protecting, monitoring and promoting the rights of children's interests. I am afraid that in her efforts she did not have much help from other institutions, but I hope that this situation will improve and that coordination between institutions will really improve. As far as the report itself is concerned, it's actually made systematic. We have a good overview of what is happening in the Republic of Croatia about the rights of children and I think that the fundamental function of the Ombudsman for children is carried out by this report itself, and of course as many powers as it has. The research that was done on violence in schools, I would only focus on that segment. We saw from the report that it was made in Zagreb at primary school. I also have data that research was done in Rijeka at 22 primary schools in 2167 students from both 7th and 8th grade sexes. Research has shown that about every fifth child, i.e. 19% of students surveyed experience at least one form of violence at school almost every day, and 18% of children act violently against other children daily, indicating a large number of children who need adequate professional help to overcome the consequences of violence. Of course, children cannot stand up to violence alone, so it is important for adults to recognize and prevent violence as well as to help children overcome the effects of violence. We thus give a message that we live in a society where violence cannot and will not be tolerated. For the sake of stopping this violence process, much more needs to be done, and in professional circles it is said that information should be informed, sensitised by the public and experts working with children on the problem of violence, among children in the school environment and encouraging their involvement in solving this problem. Children of the victims of school violence should be included as well as the bullyes in the advisory treatment at counselling centres. The advisory work with the parents of victims of school violence as well as the bully. A number of educational workshops and advisory work with school teachers and professionals should be carried out, as appropriate, with other school students. I think the progress is already in doing research and we have also reports from the public defenders, because we have to notice that so far by many school principals, any violence has been suppressed so that these directors can say that there were no such problems in their schools and that they could get high grades. It is also evident through this report that many problems would not be if the strict laws of the Republic of Croatia had to be implemented which we must say that they were really well done and that they should certainly begin to be implemented. I may now be showing you this on an example that happened recently in the city of Rijeka about 20 days ago. I believe most of you read it in the "Black Chronicle" newspaper, and the headline in the paper was "Trying to rape a minor in the early morning". Here, of course, the culprit for such a crime should be punished, but at the same time we all need to ask ourselves what that minor was doing out there at the time when we have a law that prescribes that unaccompanied minors cannot be outside at that time. It means that parents carry part of their responsibility, and we also have to notice that the police who are also not enforcing a law that should be enforced. Also, in the IDS's view, there would be fewer problems if there were more coordination among all those who had any impact on solving these problems. I mean, first of all, welfare centres that have great powers, and they have no responsibility. I would dare say that social care centres have more powers than parents, because if parents make mistakes, they can take away their child and punish them in such a way, and when the center is wrong, nothing can happen, and it can have really inconceivable consequences. We at the IDS Club think that we should primarily make a reform, a systematic reform of the social care centre, because in this form they really don't make sense. It is also noticeable that there is a lack of professionals in schools, such as psychologists, logos, educators, and we also saw an example in one school where a logo is needed, where 70% of students have difficulty in speech, 70% more than in some other environments, and the logo is not possible to obtain at school. In the end, I would just like to ask myself how we, MPs, can help the Ombudsman to have as much influence on the institutions as possible and to have as much power as possible so that this increase in violence in all forms can be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37913	Thank you very much. We're going to individual debates. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37914	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed attorney for children with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps only now after this second report by the Ombudsman for children of the Croatian Assembly indicates that it justifies all the intentions that they have successfully produced by having this institution. This report makes it quite clear and shows that many state institutions are working slowly, working inertly. They don't actually trust children. This report also made clear that many state institutions that were first also called under the law and by the Constitution stand in the defense of children in the defense of their destroyed, violated, depreciated rights, not to be seen frequently by the Ombudsman for children of their partners. That it is often not given documentation, reports, anything that is normal for a country to function. We discussed the first item this morning, the right to access information. How an ordinary citizen will come up with information, when it is often printed with many problems such as today not only from this written report, but also from today’s verbally elaborated counsel for children. So, many state institutions, I'm not going to say in motives, or some even malicious ones, or in order to defuse children's rights, but simply not see that partner, but something like form, something that we've built into our Constitution, into the law, something that we're going to rise to the world. They still don't recognize that the child's attorney is a protégé and protector of children's rights. And that everything that happens even if she doesn't know the child's attorney that they're right to even report to the nature of the matter itself if she seriously wants to act in this direction, in the direction of child protection to see that partner, or partner. So that's that, our big problem, and we're bragging and we're hanging out with those stop shops and what else sounds like this, and when we get behind that thin gold we get off that thin layer, we see that the situation is drastically, drastically different. The report points to the alarming fact that children are essentially the most sensitive and unprotected group in our society. And we're all here verbally all on the same assignment, all verbally together we're going to argue that it's very necessary for all of us to advocate that these rights of the weak are not weak rights. But when we find ourselves in some more sensitive problem, when someone's under quotes "one's" higher interests are hampering the very disclosure of true truth, then we're stepping away from it. And here is the basic principle of action so that we can act in a certain situation that our children are concerned. We as state officials and all of these institutions that are referred to by the Ombudsman for children should be treated exactly as they are or should be removed from this important, responsible and painful task. The violence against children that is happening, as we have seen from the report and in general it is known, that it happens exactly like with women, right in families the most and in institutions. So where a child needs to be the most protected and also in the institutions that are in debt, which receive money, so that they are paid along with, which are paid, they should also provide safety for children. The children's rights are most at stake in their fundamental rights and fundamental rights. Not to mention all the finesse that the final document of a special session of the United Nations General Assembly speaks of. So our children are still at risk of violence, physical abuse, not to mention just mentally and rightly for restraint. Even today, children are age - old and fail to come about for their entire childhood and youth life. We have passed a great executive law that this authority has suspended, where we have just tried as hard as it has always been, because the question is how much it would work in practice, surely and best solutions always get stuck in implementation. This is our biggest problem, not only our problem and problem not only transition countries, but much more developed countries. But we abolished a good, good law that was on the verge of this particular right, the child's right to restraint. It was also promised by this government that it would resuscitate the fund, the Alimentation Fund, to help the child as much as possible. So not to the mother or the guardian whom the child was given, entrusted to the care, but above all to the child. But that's not gonna happen. What is also very important, I think that a lot of our media have followed and popularized the role of a child's attorney and even the rights of a child. But something that is completely, completely neglected in schools is the right of the child to be informed of his rights. We often know in this normative fever that even adults are not familiar, and even those who apply daily law with frequent amendments to the law. Then how can we expect a child to be familiar with his rights if at school it is not an integral part of the school program? There's no question about that yet. We see from different types of education, starting from kindergarten that stereotype sexual education still prevails. That girls are raised differently than boys. From the beginning, this creates an unequal start-up role in achieving the starting point of equal opportunities. That they are simply directed from the earliest age into certain occupations that are mostly male, mostly female. That is exactly what the final document of the special session of the United Nations General Session is about. What is very important is that we are all witnesses. If we just promote the reality of what's going on, how many children are being abused. Here is a recent example of this campaign for local elections where children from the children's kindergarten in Zadar were taken without any knowledge or approval of parents to shoot an HDZ advertising video, which by the way for 15 years in that same town did not make up a single kindergarten. ... I don't mind if I... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about abuse. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the consequences for the children remained. ... My parents are... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please calm the president this part of me on the left. So it's obvious that my colleagues on the left, too, know exactly what's going on. Those are inadmissible things. That children are being abused in this way. An example, too, and there are certainly plenty of them, but which would never be, which would never be spoken of, that somewhere in the drawers of first-degree bodies or even more miraculous mazes of ministries would disappear in someone's drawers if there wasn't an institution of child's attorney. It speaks of where a child experiences severe physical injury during physical education at school, is subjected to surgery and miracles, instead of everywhere in the world, such a school and for his reputation is afraid to offer substantial benefits to the parent just to avoid this negative image of that school, but only then do mother and child experience terrible, terrible situations. Not only in front of the court, but in the very school where worse grades are given. So that's what we need to imagine. However, since we are not all about it, we do not really think the same, says this case to this day unexplained Blessovica. It is precisely from the counsel's oral presentation that shows the need for us to establish committees for all and all things here, to establish a commission which, the parliamentary commission, would investigate what really happened there, to finally remove the complete leniency from that institution or to prosecute and punish the responsible ones. The witness still has, according to what we've seen here, the investigation hasn't even started yet. So we often know hardening children are our future. No, the children are our present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37915	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37916	Mr. President. My colleagues, it is not true that children who have been on HDZ videos experience the consequences and live in the wake of pre-election campaign videos. It is obvious that children who were in the period of 50 years of communist rule and carried a staff can't get rid of it today, so as it turns out, the consequences are visible from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37917	Dear Representative Drago Prgomet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37918	Okay, I don't want to talk about the batons. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Attorney General. I must admit that I have already said here once that I am really inclined to claim that the value and strength of the state is being looked at in how much it is willing to protect the weakest member of my community, and that it certainly is, and I will be completely honest when I first heard of the institution of the Ombudsman for children, it seemed a little strange and unnecessary to me, and the media statement of violence against children is a little excessive, but as time goes on and as I face myself in my business with this problem, then I see that it is really not only necessary but every activity I will gladly and personally support. This may also be because I personally grew up in a family where children felt like God’s gift and true wealth and where violence against children was really impossible. But it's obvious that reality is much more cruel than we'd want it to be or what it really is. A few days ago as a doctor, I met with a child who was sexually abused in her own family and then you really wondered if such things were possible not only in our society but how much responsibility we ourselves bear as a community, and we personally present here for such conditions or non-sanitating such conditions. What's most tragic maybe, which is that the answer to such a question is who are these people who work, very simple. People who live around you, people who have their families and everything that we would in our present kind of system of values and value courts characterise as a normal family or a normal citizen. However, in your report, some research itself, you said, that this kind of violence unfortunately happens in almost a third of the same families that I said would be characterized by all of us as good, normal families, neat citizens, and members of our community. But here I won't talk too much about the content of your report because there really was a lot of talk. Perhaps or I think it would be more necessary to say a few things that I personally consider important to point out, which is that as a society and as each of us as an individual can make such things happen and that they happen to as little as possible. In any case, at the first level of any of our activities, it would be necessary to develop the sensitivity of the public to such misdemeanors, because this should indeed be spoken of not as an indemnity, inhumane, non-civilising act but to remind the public that it is a legal offence, or criminal offence. Second, children should be helped when they are not asking for help, since adult passivity means participation in child endangerment. Furthermore, media should offer information on ways to fight violence against children. Here you would also mention the need to fight some of the delusions that are rooted in us and in society, which, unfortunately, are depicted to children as one of the problematic antipropagandas of child values, which is that your children accept violence as something, first accept one thesis that they are bad, and second, that violence against them is quite normal to stem from precisely what they were misbehaving or being bad. I think it's about the delusions that the fight in that prevention of violence is really imperative for all of us. Second, at another level of struggle or prevention, it is necessary to warn, identify and act in the direction of identifying risk families and parents. So if we already have something that we can characterise as risky parents and a risky family, then it is clear that in that area we need to educate relevant experts in identifying the facts of the risk and in joining such a family. I want to point out here really, I mean the need to support government and non-governmental organizations that are working in that direction right now, from phones for help, web stations, centres for families in crisis, counselling centres, etc. And then maybe at the last level of prevention when it comes to this monster, it's an intervention in case of child abuse. So when it already appears then it is clear that a good application system needs to be developed, educate experts involved in the treatment process by psychologists and social workers. It is very important here to point out that this problem is particularly important if I understand from the lawyer’s own report, present at the courts when, instead of helping the victim unfortunately, it is re-emerged, and the legal procedure itself usually ends or often ends not in punishing the perpetrator but in releasing him or relativating his guilt. An effective approach to solving this problem and to me is absolutely clear is not a little easy, and once again, as I said at first, I welcome and support indeed every activity of the child's attorney and government in procedures that should involve a number of interventions in the legal system, the social, educational system, but also the financing of service organisations and experts from the government and NGOs that engage and cooperate on this task. And perhaps in the end we can find our own answer to this, the answer to the question of how to prevent violence against children. In the messages contained in the reply of two girls who said, "Stop violence by teaching your child to love everything around you" and others: "Teach your parents to talk to children". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37919	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37920	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Attorney General. There's a very good full report in front of us, Mr. Palaric could be seen. I propose that we reach a conclusion as Parliament that this report must be sent to the Central Office of the State Administration so that the Secretary of State can see how the reports for the Parliament are drawn up. This is the status report. It's a sad situation. It's a sad situation, and we all have to ask ourselves what to do to make it better. First of all, what we can do, here, representatives. The most stressful part of this report is the addition of the oral explanation of the Ombudsman who described the event in Brezovica. If it hadn't been for that correction of my colleague Solic's incorrect allegations, we might not have found out here, but it's a good thing we found out. It is good that we learned details about a girl who did not fight, who did not agree to the educational method of obviously one institution that nurtures the traditional approach to education by which a plague from heaven came out, but who was therefore cruelly punished not to play with her peers for six months, half a year. Watching her peers play out the window, and she can't play with them. We also heard what sloppy work the police were in solving this case in Brezovica with obvious intent, with an obvious intention to protect the abusers. Why? I guess because he's the founder of this home caritas so the government didn't want to mind the church. So in deciding whether to object to a church or to protect the rights of children in Bezovica, she decided to do the first thing. Well, then, police, Minister Mlinaric doesn't allow a child's attorney to see the file, but she has to prescribe it on her knees. We discussed the report today on the right to the availability of information. Please be nice, counselor for children, author of the Croatian Parliament to protect children's rights cannot get information, can not get a file. So where do we live? What are we talking about here? But what are we gonna do? Mr. Palaric was pleased with the work of the ministries, and I suppose Mlinaric, who does not allow the prosecutor to see the file. HDZ we heard, satisfied with the Palarić report on it, everyone is satisfied, everyone will support everything, everyone will vote everything, and in Brezovica they won't let the girl play, and the police won't conduct an investigation, not a lawyer's entry into the file. What are we surprised at here at all? What we are surprised about when Mrs. Šolić also thinks that everything is okay in Brezovica, that nothing happened there and that things like this should happen in Brezovica. What wonder do we have when a representative of the people says that? One national representative. And now, instead of any, I think this thing is mature, fully matured, that instead of any unnecessary investigative committees that are set up here in this House, one is set up for Brezovica. She's fully matured. So Minister Mlinaric would like to explain to someone from that committee why the children's defender does not want to see the files. Let him explain. That's what we can do here as agents. What can the Government do? There is a need to establish family courts or at least family departments in courts, but that is twice delayed. Why is it delayed? The dishes, he says, are not ready. So why are they not prepared? Well, they had a year and a half to prepare. And who is ultimately responsible for not being prepared? Well, listen, someone's got to answer for it. Whether the presidents of the courts, whether the minister of justice, whether or not the prime minister of the government. And we can't do that, for a year and a half, they haven't prepared themselves, when they're prepared, they don't know if they're going to prepare, they don't know. Nothing to anyone. The need to amend the Criminal Procedure Act is indicated with the mandatory appointment of a college custodian. That's the case where a criminal case is conducted against a child's legal representative. So it's his parent or guardian who committed a crime to the harm of that child. And now that the state's attorney has given up on further prosecution, someone has to continue pursuing a private lawsuit. Who's that by the Code of Criminal Procedure? It's that guardian or parent. So they won't continue the proceedings against themselves. You need to make changes to that procedure to give it to some kind of lawyer. A collegiate representative of that child to protect the rights of the child. Yeah, well, who's in charge of amending that law now? Then again, the government. That same minister again. So what's he waiting for? Well, that's one little change, so it's done in two days if it's done. It is made, if it will never be made, the end of the government's mandate is awaited. Someone else will. A new standard needs to be adopted, says the D.A. Preschool education and education because this is the existing one from 1983. Well, that's what you know who's in charge. Minister Primorac paints around instead of making or at least starting to work on that standard. You need to make a minimum standard of sexual education in schools. He's gone. The church is again being inserted here with its "Teen Star" programme which is incompatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other applicable regulations in the Republic of Croatia. We've got a minister to do it again, so let him do it, at least make a minimum standard. With religious science, there's this movie called "Nimi Shriek." Is it now acceptable for children to be traumatized in order to be instilled in them a religious belief? So religious beliefs should be implanted, and in this way? Well, someone's got to be responsible for that, too. Speaking of the church's influence, discussions about medically assisted fertilisation and those of the Croatian Bishop's Conference Office with the title "Children, Thing or Gift". So how did the children who were conceived by the aided insemination feel when they read in that brochure that they were not God’s gift but that they were a thing? What about inappropriate media content? They're still advertising those Hellf candy. I'm not going to describe that commercial right now, I think you all know it. But she shows up at a time when kids watch TV. With the right of counsel, she warns of children who beg. It may be one of the ugliest exploits of a child, sending him barefoot to the street in winter to beg. Humiliate him in the worst possible way. Well, a child like that should be excluded immediately from the middle that drives him to do so, instantly. When he finds him on the street. We need regulations for that, someone has to propose them. Someone's got to make them. There, it can be government, it's the least it can do, so at least the regulations suggest. If nothing else, she had a year and a half, so she could at least have a little fun with those kids to be better protected. But in this regard, the government does nothing, which remains for us to accept this report, of course, to encourage the Ombudsman to continue, because you are doing excellently and hope that next year's report will still be a little less painful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37921	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37922	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Stazic said that Mrs. Solic thinks things should happen in Bezovica that she claims are wrong. Mrs. Šolic said in her correction of the incorrect allegations that there was surveillance in Brezovica and that there were no irregularities identified not talking about the type of surveillance and the details of that surveillance. Sir, I think it's very incorrect in this way to call a representative in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37923	Replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37924	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Stazic spoke from the Bezovic case in general... and it spoke to me as a representative and a practical believer of insults. You need to know if we're talking about the social dimension I won't talk as a believer and as a man who knows something about theology if we can say it as a science, but when it comes to the social dimension of the church then you must know that the church has always been from its beginnings on the side of the powerless, sick, disproved children and all those who need help. This is the social existence of the church and its role in today's society in Croatia,... has been a role in all societies since the beginning of the church as such. When I talk about the church then I mean the Catholic Church, thank you very much. And of you it is very incorrect in this way to speak and speak false and certain insinuations in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37925	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37926	I didn't even think of generalizing the role of the church in society, especially I wasn't talking about the social science of the church, but in every system, and even inside the church, there are possible mistakes. Let us not pretend that we do not know that many priests within the church were brought to court and condemned as pedophiles, in every system there is a possible mistake. And in every system you can find people who won't meet the ideal of that system. It seems to me from what was said here that something like this happened in Bezovica, so I didn't generalize it myself, but you, who are expanding what I'm saying about Brezovica, to the whole church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37927	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37928	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Advocates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I suppose we all agree that this report is of particular importance for the reasons it speaks of children's rights and their protection, since children are the wealth and future of every nation as well as our Croatian. Already, the fact that the Croatian Parliament puts on the agenda a problem of protecting children's rights in its work, that the four parliamentary committees were manifesting themselves on this issue, giving exceptional weight and seriousness to approach such a problem. The fact is that this is the first such report and there are no systematicized parallel indicators with earlier periods making it difficult to determine the dynamics of monitoring the occurrence of child rights violations. But the fact that in 2004, 524 cases of child rights violations were recorded is reason enough to be discussed, to see problems, to set priorities and bearers to solve problems. By signing the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to implement the Convention and has committed to increasing sensitivity in the protection of children against any physical and mental violence. The Family and Penal Code also increased the rights and protection of children. In this respect, this area is legally regulated, which also confirms the establishment of the Office of the Advocates of the Children, which has made a major contribution to the rights of children and their protection. This means that so far we have an exact place where you can report infringements of child rights we have an institution that can and knows how to act in certain cases. They are also located places where children are most often injured by rights and violence, that is family, educational institutions and homes for children. The reasons why such cases occur most often in these environments should be determined. We are aware that the family is a natural environment for the growth, development and formation of a child and the question is what happens to some of our families, why there is no real happiness and love for the child in these families. It's just two questions but very complex and specific from case to case, and in reality it just takes a little tolerance, a little more love and a little more time for children. The report shows that 63% of cases of child rights have been reported by parents, and I wonder if all the options for solving problems have been exhausted in the family. State institutions can help solve certain problems related to child rights violations but this should be preventive, advisory and professional assistance. Ensuring the conditions for family development in which a child is exercising his rights and also obligations are raised by citizens who, by consuming their rights, respect and promote the rights of another. The report also shows the progress of the office itself as well as the efforts of the Republic of Croatia to take preventive measures and activities to prevent violence against children, so for all reasons I propose that this report be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37929	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Carmela Caparin's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General. Unfortunately, because of your detour in this report, we cannot see a happy child and family, but all the pathology of a modern society. Subject cases relate to the monitoring of both personal and educational and health rights of socio-economic, cultural judicial and protective etc. 70% of cases relate to infringements of children's personal rights. Of which within that group, 24% refers to a violation of the right to live with parents and parental care, which further points to the crisis in the family. Out of 717 children were treated as regards parental care, 51% were between 7 and 14 years of age, so during the period when all turbulence of parental care can be extremely harmful at that age. And this suggests that the level of protection of children's rights is not satisfactory. The report also shows the high authority of the Centre for Social Care in protecting children's rights, and their slowness is also evident, and their inertness of action is really raised by the issues of expertise or the equipment of the same. There are not enough experts to address family and legal protection, and I believe that this problem will be better addressed in the future after that date 1. 1. 2006. In some cases, they do not respond in a timely manner that disrupts the relationship between parents and children, namely, because of the slowness in solving the case, there is an obstruction of encounters and association between children and parents. They have the possibility to examine all children's rights and take measures to protect those rights. By destroying the family community, there is a violation of the rights of the child especially during the resolution of partner, emotional, property relations and others. Sometimes one of the parents interrupts any contact with the child and in that part we see that the centers react too late. On the other hand, social care centres do not receive information on the course of criminal proceedings and their outcome so that they cannot take appropriate measures to protect children in due time. A child deprived of the family environment has the right to special protection under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. the right to alternative care, accommodation in another family, adoption or accommodation in appropriate institutions for child care. It is certainly commendable that UNICEF's "Every Child Needs a Family" action because for some children it is the only opportunity to grow up in a family environment. The foster care in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition but a low level of development, and that is why everything you talked about today is happening. In the Republic of Croatia there are no specialized forms of foster care for children with special needs. The report also discusses little about the problem of adopting children, how many such children we have, how many couples are asking for children to be adopted, etc. I believe that you too will advocate amending legislative rules on the abolition of parental care for those parents who do not, because their children are in their homes. When procedures to take away parental care are initiated then they are long and the seizure is very rare. Sadly, the obligation to support children remains with parents who are restricted and even taken away or de facto do not realize that there is a legal existence. At the end of 2003, the total number of children in homes was a thousand sixth. Over 130 under three years of age and 61 children up to one year of age. On the other hand, homes generally do not have enough potential, material, organisational, professional. Many homes require improvement in the plan of increasing space or reducing users, improvement in teaching children about their rights and obligations. A tragic event in Stančić recently where three protégéns died from food poisoning prepared in the old oronula kitchen and we know what other hygienic and sanitary conditions are like. In addition, too many protégés are there, 400 mentally retarded. According to the 2001 census, 21% of the total population, therefore around 900 thousand are children aged 18 years. This report shows that we have 18 homes for children without adequate parental care, 27 homes for physically and mentally damaged children, 11 homes for children with behavioral disorders. It is, therefore, clear from all the importance of prevention and protection in those institutions. Moreover, since children in homes are unable to even report violence and 80% of violence against children is happening in family homes and schools, whether it is also psychological where we have about 2%, sexual abuse 15%, or various forms of neglect. So the trend in violence-related reporting is also important. I believe that the programme of activities to prevent violence between children and young people and the protocol in the case of violence between children and young people will contribute to its reduction. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Office for Family and the Office for Defence and Children worked together to develop a national strategy to protect against domestic violence in the family from 2005 and 2007 and it is indeed to praise this co-operation. And let me look back on the media's influences. The impact of television on children is great, and today we can talk about the unfortunate effects of media, television violence where respect for the minimum of ethics, the minimum protection of minors and adolescents is not taken into account. So, on the other hand, he spoke to his colleague Prgoment, so I won't repeat myself, develop the opposite sensitivity of the audience. I'd like to ask you a question if you've responded recently to one media link from a 13-month-old girl known as basketball player. And there were other cases like this, so I'm curious because we couldn't read any answers or news in the media. We often talk about the medical code and sometimes we refer to the press code we're talking about. We are also talking about investment and foreign investment in our country but let's not forget the most profitable investment is investing in child education and education. In the children’s world within the family, let us help them to fulfill all their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37931	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Irena Ahel's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The 2004 Ombudsman report shows that the Ombudsman’s Office for Children has taken significant steps to protect children and promote their rights. Pointing out the current problems of violence in educational institutions, domestic violence, violence among peers, and child protection problems in cases of domestic violence have an impact on raising awareness and sensitisation of the public and individuals on issues of child rights. All the institutions of society should be involved in protecting and promoting the rights of the child. We can see from the report from the Ombudsman's office that 524 cases of child rights violations involving 717 children have been handled. What is particularly worrying is the fact that there is physical and sexual abuse of children within a family that is the place where a child should feel the safest and most secure. I would also point out concern about the increase in violence among peers. It is commendable that in the legal-formal part, the Republic of Croatia has brought legislation into line with international commitments, but I believe that we need to make greater efforts as a society to reduce violence among peers in particular in primary and secondary schools and completely disappear. Particular attention should be paid in the family environment to preventing violent messages and behaviours which, through the media and especially by electronic means, reach children's consciousness from the earliest age through cartoons, comics, video games and the like. I advocate a faster and more effective settlement of court disputes in cases of violation of the right of the child and more rigorous penalties against the perpetrators. Violent children are rarely affected by the conditions they have been through their entire lives. Therefore, institutions dealing with these problems should also be more present in all environments. Social care centres should be more present and provide operational assistance and proactively work in single-parent families. Particular attention should be paid to education of children on their rights and education of children of adolescent age on issues of sex from a health, psychological and physical aspect. Such education should be conducted since primary school and adapted to the age and needs of children. The Ombudsman’s report also provides examples of children being exposed to harsh verbal insults and humiliations by teachers in some cases. I strongly condemn such occurrences, and I believe that each such case should be investigated individually, and in the event of a proven action, the most strictly sanctioned. Society as a whole should fully protect children's rights but also prevent failures often made by adults towards underage children. . /. Recently, on television, we have seen several contributions that speak about the availability of alcohol and cigarettes to underage children. Children bought cigarettes and alcoholic products without a problem in the grocery stores. I believe that this way is not only a violation of the law but also threatened children's health by the fact that they can easily consume alcoholic beverages. That problem should be given special attention. We often say that children are our future, but we forget that they are both ours and ours. Children are the most valuable part of our society, of our lives and of our everyday life. Therefore, they deserve much more attention and concern and understanding than all of us. Starting with a parenting and foster environment and then over a manger, school to college. Special responsibility is also given to us advocates who pass laws on respect for the rights of the child. So let us all do more together, even more effort to protect our children in order to be happier and happier today and thus more successful and responsible people tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37933	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37934	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney. Let me refer briefly to this report. Remembering the conversation I had about 2.5 years ago, if I remember correctly at the time of the establishment of this institution as a lawyer for children with the attorney general here. Right here in the Parliament building on that occasion, I told the lawyer that I saw as a minister at the time who was giving an initiative to set up this institute a fundamental mission of child counsel to control what I was doing. Then at that time, the minister of labour and social care, thinking that somehow metaphorically to control the state, government, institutions that deny the child's right can in various ways. Among other things, I'm not doing what I'm supposed to do. And this report now after two and a half years, or after two years of work of this institution definitely confirms the need to form such an institution. And I have to say that yet with a dose of satisfaction, even some satisfaction for the initiative I gave at the time, I am reading this report in full awareness that exactly the figures that are listed here on the number of children whose rights have been denied, about the number of children who have been abused in various ways in this country have confirmed the justification and need of the formation of such an institution. We are here if the entire assembly were to be filled in somewhere around 150, now imagine 151 children up to 6 years old, only in one year and only what came to the prosecutor was denied in their fundamental human rights. With the right of the Ombudsman to conclude at the beginning of his report that the society in which children live must meet their needs with special regard and, for the sake of their vulnerability, the child needs an adult to protect, love and teach him. And it's not an essay, as someone said when specific cases are cited, concrete actions or the fundamental meaning of this institute that children as a group of weaker ones need a mediator to solve their conflict with adults. Yes, these conflicts must be adult conflicts with adults, and those adults must have full awareness of what they are protecting. When I say that the problem is we, when I say to me, think of all the administrative, state and all the other structures and I'm not for the story, I have to say as much as I find it eloquent and disgusting to read and listen to abusers and those who abuse and in various ways deny children in their fundamental rights, I have to say so much to listen to and false protectors of children who can hardly mention children without saying that this is our greatest treasure, wealth, our future, and that there are often hypocrisis and hypocrites in this slightly crying rhetoric. But I'm about to say that when we talk about children that we talk about our own responsibilities seriously and responsibly. And there's no alibi, and there's no excuse for anyone acting any public duty regardless of his political party, commitment, etc., etc. This is not a topic where children's rights should be discussed in this way. But the point is that we are talking about what the Ombudsman concludes in each part of his report as a suggestion, as a proposal or a recommendation regarding us or those who act, have the possibility of passing laws or acting as executive authority no matter what level. Thus, the question is rightly asked what will happen after this report, in which, for example, the Ombudsman notes that the application of part of the Family Law which transfers numerous cases of family legal protection from the centre's jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the courts was also an international obligation to postpone it now to 1. 1. 2006. That's the question we need to talk about. Out of some general disgust with what happens to children, we must move on to the field of concrete practice and what we can do. Or when the lawyer says that the biggest objective problem, the generally known fact that norms have been breached, and family legal protection jobs in the centres of the Ministry of Health and Social Care do not carry out the necessary number of professional staff. Then a concrete measure must be taken. If in the government mandate where I was a minister, we had a stupid employment ban that was unselective, and then I couldn't hire people in the ministry, the institutions were built, you couldn't hire a man, I say it's stupid, because we could give up a clerk, we could have less at the Pension Insurance Office. It doesn't take 3.5 thousand, but we could hire or educate 100, 150, 200 or I don't know how many experts there are, that's the question I guess we should talk about. But we don't even have a ministry that deals with it anymore, no one's doing it anymore, no one's doing it. The whole story was broken, all that one ministry was broken, I don't mind being overstated in one way or another, but it had to be passed on to obligations, responsibilities, etc., whether this State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, if whatever was wrong in it and the fighting was confirmed that it was, at least a substrate of what he was doing and freeing the Minister from being the only defence minister. This does not concern the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as it deals with health problems that are huge. A matter of psychotherapy skills, education. All these questions are therefore, and when you have an expert, he does not know how to act. In the report, our lawyer says that often people with legal skills don't get along when it comes to children. They must be further educated. We've been listening to the report here from Bezovica. It's technically legal to do what needs to be done. Everyone was involved, and the reports were obviously telling or maybe they weren't, we'll see. We'll probably get a chance to hear more about it, what actually happened there? What I've received as a report from the Ministry, the profession doesn't speak of such drastic violations of children's rights. And she's probably been going on. Is there an evil intention or ignorance? And it needs to be determined. So psychological treatment of a child is often patterns and so on. They do not show that the child is in an appropriate way, mentioned by other bodies, other ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education for a huge number of child violence cases, at school. The problem is the orderly delivery of writing, disrespecting the Law on Administrative Procedure, and so on and so on. That's why I'm here to talk about it and to question what we've done in any of these areas and what we haven't and what we have to do. I am so in favour of this report as the beginning of one systematic real work and other institutions, not just the institution of the Ombudsman for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37935	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The task of the Ombudsman for children is to protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of children under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other international Treaties and the Law. Children are no doubt a particularly sensitive category that requires full care and care for the entire society. However, this is not always so confirmed by the Ombudsman’s findings in the opening part of his report, which is said to have been very often witnessed in activities and activities by the reality of which there was significant resistance and misunderstanding of adults to the exercise of children’s rights. Of the total number of cases processed, 70% concerned infringements of children's personal rights. In particular, two groups of rights violations are highlighted within that group and 24% of the total number of cases in question relate to violation of the right to live with parents and parental care, while 32% refers to violation of the right to protect against violence. The Convention on the Rights of the Child pays special attention to the importance of parental care. The unquestionable fact is that the quality of parental care is one of the crucial factors in the quality of life of children. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Convention on the Rights of the Child prescribes that the State, Party to the Convention, will make every effort to ensure that the principle of joint responsibility of both parents for raising and developing a child and that parents or legal guardians are responsible above all for raising and developing a child and that the best interests of the child are their primary concern. The bodies between which parental care decisions are shared as well as the powers to take measures of family and legal protection, the rights and welfare of the child in the Republic of Croatia are centres for social care and courts. The system of social care in full, especially social care centres, is extremely important in achieving and protecting a number of and important children's rights. Social care centres practically have the highest possible power to protect children's rights in view of the duty to investigate all children's rights and take measures to protect them. In view of their competence in certain proceedings, the courts decide only on certain issues related to the protection of children's rights and interests, while welfare centres have broad options for selecting the most appropriate measures for the protection of children's rights. In front of the centres, there is still a long period of responsibility for these very responsible tasks, as the application of part of the Family Law, which transfers numerous matters of family and legal protection from the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centre to the jurisdiction of the courts, was postponed until 1.1.2006. The biggest objective problem is the common known fact that the business of family legal protection in centres and the Ministry of Health and Social Care does not carry out the necessary number of professional staff. This is one of the reasons why deadlines for making first-degree solutions as well as for making a solution to the appeal are repeatedly exceeded in many cases. As a result, I agree with the Advocate General's finding presented in this report that there is a need to employ a number of experts, and also to invest constantly in their education in order, among other things, to obtain the required level of psychotherapy knowledge because children are the last segment of the society to be saved, and unfortunately this is exactly what is done very often. And even when part of the responsibility of the social care centre goes to the jurisdiction of the courts, it will remain a significant role of the centre as a body to provide expert assistance to the courts. One of the major problems is the problem of parents who are obliged to pay child restraint and for various reasons do not do so or satisfy this obligation insufficiently and irregularly. In its report, the Advocate pointed out problems related to the length of court proceedings as to how the case is intended to determine detention and enforcement proceedings and criminal proceedings for the purposes of criminal offences of the violation of the duty of restraint. So unfortunately, problems related to legal child restraint represent one of the most serious problems related to the protection of children’s rights. This was the reason why the SDP Club proposed a law establishing an alimony fund. Unfortunately, not only has the bill not been adopted by both the government and the parliamentary majority, but the funds in the State budget that were intended for the alimony fund have been rerouted to other purposes. The role of family and parents in a child’s life is extremely important. Every child has the right to live in an environment where they have the attention and love of both parents, even when they do not live together. A child surrounded by love and attention has all the predisposition to develop into a whole, healthy personality. By "healthy" in this context, I mean mental health. It means that it becomes a person who will make a significant contribution to the development of society and community. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Rights of the Child states: "A child who is temporarily and permanently deprived of family environments or who is not allowed to remain in that circle in his best interest has the right to special protection and assistance of the State. The institution of foster care is one of the forms of child care outside its own family." As we have already heard, colleagues have already pointed out that in Croatia many children still spend many years in institutions. Household care in Croatia has a long tradition but is at a low level of development. There are no specialized forms of foster care for children with special needs. The report notes that there are a number of problems faced by the foster parents in their work, and thus points out weak support from the social care centre, which is due to the absence of a specialised department or at least specialised staff within the centre to deal with this activity, and through such an organisation of jobs would be in continuous contact with the foster parents and thus be familiar with the daily difficulties that fosterers face, so that these difficulties could be addressed in a spotless and uniform manner. The amount of compensation that fosterers receive often does not cover the basic needs of a child, unlike the funds that the state allocates for housing of children in homes, which are multiplely higher than the amount of accommodation fees in foster families. Furthermore, the problem is the uneven distribution of foster families throughout Croatia. Some legal improvements have been made as regards, for example, the issue of household permits and their renewal after two years, the compulsory attendance courses, the reduction of the number of foster children to a maximum of five in a single foster family, the setting of common and special conditions regarding housing, social and other conditions for children whose special conditions for children of victims of domestic violence. The existing legislation also provides for the existence of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, a special body whose competence is, among other things, the organisation of courses for future foster parents as a prerequisite for carrying out foster activities and courses, and for experts working in foster care centres. But the said body, which would undoubtedly contribute significantly to improving the quality and development of foster care in Croatia, has not yet been established. It is commendable that we have pointed out on several occasions today, and UNICEF's "Every Child Needs a Family" action that will certainly help improve the development and quality of the foster institutions. Violence against children taking place in families, educational institutions and homes is a problem that today the world is dealing with and Croatia is dealing with more than the previous decades. Article 19 The Convention on the Rights of the Child is prescribed to protect the child from abuse, neglect and all forms of physical and mental violence. It worries that the violation of the right to protection against abuse in 48% of cases occurred in the family and in 52% of the cases of violence occurred in institutions. It is frightening that this data shows that there is no big difference between family and institutions when it comes to abuse. And the family, by all accounts, that concept itself contains should be an oasis of love, emotional warmth, security, and peace for the child. How, then, to explain the fact that children are very often exposed to the most harsh forms of physical, emotional, and sexual abuse in the family. The law on protection against domestic violence was passed on 18 July 2003. In addition to criminal and family legislation, it is prescribed to act as part of a violation of the level of child protection against domestic violence. For the first time, the law on protection against domestic violence describes all forms of violence, extends a range of possible perpetrators, and introduces a series of safeguards from the ban on harassment to the distance of abusers from living space. However, as the Ombudsman warns in her report, practice shows that the existing system of protection and mode of intervention is not nearly satisfactory. The Ombudsman states that despite the efforts made so far to sensitise experts, competent authorities in individual cases do not respond in due time and do not use all legally envisaged opportunities to protect victims of violence and mitigate their consequences. It is clear to all of us that the long - term and lasting effects on the mental health of children leave all forms of violence against children. And at the very end. Fighting to reduce cases and consequences of violence not only in the family but also in all other institutions such as homes, schools, kindergartens requires coordinated action by relevant bodies and institutions. It's not enough to have laws so no matter how good they are. These laws need to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37937	The word has an esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh. He's not in the hall. The word has a distinguished representative, Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37938	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the Attorney General and her team for this extensive and quality report. By performing the role of child mediators both at the systemic level and in each individual case, the Advocate's Office, reacting to various forms of violation of children's rights, as well as monitoring appropriate and prescribed intervention by the competent authorities, has been very visible and effective in affecting public sensitisation towards children's rights and incentivising improvement of systemic and practical protection of children's rights. I would like to highlight the work of the office in the exercise of the power to propose and take measures to build a complete system of protection and promotion of the rights and interests of children. In the context of emphasising the attorney’s initiality, I consider it necessary to highlight the importance of the participation of the Ombudsman in the work of the Committee for the Judgment of all programmes on sexual education conducted in primary and secondary schools from January to early May 2005. In view of the effectiveness and initiatives of the Ombudsman for children in the adoption of a proposal for an educational programme in the field of health culture, the Office would recommend further involvement in monitoring the process of implementing the adopted proposal as well as the process of setting up and integrating this important new programme into the education and education system. It is also a very commendable activity of the office in protecting and promoting the rights and interests of children with special needs and cooperation with associations of Croatian Associations of Body Disabilities. I would recommend that, certainly as announced in the report, a programme of cooperation with persons with disabilities associations and a process of monitoring the implementation of the law in view of this population is subject to multiple discrimination. This is particularly important given that disabled persons represent a marginalised group that accounts for as much as 10% of the total population and does not have a special defender. The Office would also recommend, but also the Office of Gender Equality and the Office of the Public Advocates to pay particular attention to issues of discrimination against persons with disabilities within their fields of action, to achieve systematic cooperation with associations and wherever possible professionally engage professionals from that population. Today's parliamentary debate, which presents three reports by the Advocate's Office, presents a unique opportunity to open the issue of whether it is necessary to establish a special Ombudsman's office in the long term for persons with disabilities, or whether within the existing institutes, and given the resources available to work, it is sufficiently necessary to monitor the rights of persons with this problem. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the Office of the Ombudsman’s children’s office’s initiative, to visit a significant number of institutions in which institutional care is provided for children from home to criminal institutions in which they carry out educational measures and sentences of juvenile prisons with children. Since in meeting children and meeting children in institutions with the rights of children and the role of guardians for children, the purpose of the tour was also insight into the way in which the care of children staying in institutions of institutional care, the office pointed to a number of problems in the achievement of the care of children who reside or are permanently located in natural and legal persons and other legal entities under specific rules. In this context, I would propose as an extremely important and potential effective measure, the establishment of a single monitoring system of institutional care for children, which would complete specific actional research on respect for human rights in institutional care institutions, with an emphasis on general birth and children's rights. I also propose that the three Ombudsman offices jointly initiate the establishment of such a monitoring system and propose guidelines for the development of monitoring systems to government and ministries' competent offices. Given the rights of children, and in light of the Bezovic case, I would suggest setting up the Ombudsman's office for children as an independent body that conducts additional external monitoring and evaluation of institutions that care for children. Namely, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children is not as a ministry and the institutions mentioned above are involved in the implementation of the institutional care programme for children, and I propose that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children be provided with additional financial resources for action research and external evaluation of institutions according to unique indicators based on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37939	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Jenna Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37940	Honored Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. I welcome and support the Ombudsman's report for children in order to ensure effective protection of children's fundamental rights. Of course, deeper analysis is needed primarily as a basic unit in which children develop and raise. It is also very important to prevent the prevention of violence in all structures especially when it comes to prevention of school violence. I come from an area of special state care and as a former educational worker for years I have sought solutions to various forms and consequences of child abuse. I agree with the lawyer's report, but I can't help but look at some sentences in that report, where it says: We recommend that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and in cooperation with the Educational Institute, warns of the need for continued monitoring of students' work and timely initiation of the process of identifying appropriate forms of schooling for students who have experienced difficulties in schooling, we consider it necessary and useful to warn of cooperation with clinical psychologists. As I come from an area of special state concern, I think that this problem is, above all, more pronounced in Baranja and there is a need to provide additional resources for the care and financial support of victims of violence and to implement safeguard measures. In the Baranja area we have 11 primary schools with 3.556 students. There are only two primary schools that have part-time working psychologists. I know it's rationalization and it's impossible to hire a psychologist at all primary schools right now, but I can't agree with the fact that in the House of Health, we don't have any clinical psychologists. Children from this area are referred to the Osijek Clinical Hospital, the Pediatrics Clinic, and there is only one psychologist for children there so that these children from this area are waiting at least a month and a half days in a row. And what can a psychologist do? Make triage. And who has time for some kind of therapy! I know that at the Clinical Hospital of Osijek, the Department of Pediatrics often does not receive children from the outside at all, or only those children who are already in the Pediatrics Department. Unfortunately, social care centres do not have enough staff. In this area there are a large number of social benefits users and there is not enough rapid response of the centre because they simply do not have enough time to make all requests, jobs with few people in a satisfactory period and devices. We face violence among children and young people more and more often, with the goal of applying physical or mental harm. Educational institutions are very often in solving the violent behaviour of children on their own. The problem of preventing violence between children and young people should be regularly reported by parents, mutual tolerance and respect, co-operation by all state bodies since the responsibility of all factors is a prerequisite for comprehensive cooperation and quality child protection. Another question opens here, that even a teacher himself often does not know how to treat a violent child. I therefore propose that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should provide teachers with guidance on how to react, not just look for reports on where and how something happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37941	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37942	Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed attorney. There's been a lot of talk here today about the report, and I think and support this report anyway. I think that this report should serve many as a form to write reports and deliver reports to this House, not what we had before noon, to consider the report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information that was absolutely molested, unsaid and which was actually a little insulting to this House of Representatives. However, although I support this report I want to talk about two or three problems, the specific problems mentioned in this report, but perhaps to shed a different light on these problems. First of all, I want to say a few words about foster care. The report finds itself or might indicate that some changes have been made as regards foster care in 2004. In 2004, I think it was absolutely the worst year for foster parents and children without proper family care. I'll illustrate that with several examples. So the Ministry of Health and Social Care made a decision or at least so, at least it seemed so that the House of Children should be abolished in Koprivnica without adequate parental care "Spring". This was said at a professional seminar, and it was all done that children were really instructed during summer holidays in foster families, and that through these summer holidays this house was closed and that they had no place to go back. Fortunately, both the director and the board of directors and the local community have learned about this activity and what is saddest about it, that the children who live in that home have just stood up against this action, and including your attorneys to protect their rights, and their rights are to at least know early enough what will happen in the future with them. . /. So someone wanted to conduct an experiment with 43 children who were stationed at the Children's House "Spring" in a way that moved them overnight from one environment in which some grew up and 12 and 13 years in another environment, which at the time when the decision was made did not even know where they should go, under what conditions and who would take care of them. Of course, other than the rights of children located in the House, the rights of employees were also compromised because they did not know what would happen to them in 2 or 3 months. Although all the activities were undertaken to make this happen, no one had the courage from the ministry to send a clear and public memo and to say that it would indeed happen. And it was all about property that was supposed to come back to the church. Fortunately, here, and with the help of the attorney general and with the help of many other good people, we were able to save that House from being shut down. And that although the opportunities to live in happy, their families, the biological families of 43 children are still living in a happy and large family in Koprivnica. But I'm afraid the first next chance to do it will be taken because unfortunately we're advocates of it in the country that, here, we should abolish homes, and that all children should end up in foster families. Even a commendable "Every child needs a family" action launched by the state was launched by UNICEF. But with all that, I think we need the country's combined care of children without proper family care. So that, in any case, certain specialised homes, not specialised, but homes, should remain in the end, which will provide for a number of children. This was one of the worst children's rights violations in Koprivnica last year. Fortunately, the local community and children have managed to preserve and with the help of, I repeat, the Ombudsman, for whom we thank her, preserve, preserve their rights that they have acquired and have. Another problem is the same with children without adequate family care that the foster parents were placed in an extremely bad situation during 2004 because after 4 years they did not increase the child’s cost of living. And for the first time in 2004, these parents did not know, for example, whether they would receive money from the state, or from the welfare center, for school books. And they had to pay homage to each of their Social Care Centres and ask the officials to give them so some managed to get the total amount, some managed to get half the amount, some managed to choose to get some sort of average amount. Otherwise, the costs of the state for children without adequate parental care are as follows. So foster parents, or children, who are located in foster homes, receive a thousand and a thousand kunas, and children who are the same children, therefore, who are not in their families, and are in their homes, the cost of the state is between 4 and a half thousand kuna and even 11,000 kuna. So for the same child, for the same care that the state should care about, giving such children a range is almost 1:8. The range is huge between children who are located in a foster family and children who are housed in their homes, but I find it completely unclear why, but the other one is completely unclear to me why one home or child in one home costs 4 and a half thousand kuna, and in another home, it costs a country of 11,000 kuna. Does this child in that second home really get two and a half times better care than in this home where the cost of the state is 4 and a half thousand kuna? Unfortunately, even on two occasions, the foster parents last year had to protest and seek the protection of their children's rights here in Mark's square. Twice the foster parents came here to Mark’s square to seek protection not from their rights but from children who have already been disabled in such a way that they do not live in their happy families. And I really think that last year was the year that was the worst year for foster care and for children without proper parental care. It was only partially repaired or the signs of repair were given in a way that UNICEF initiated the "Every child has the right to family" action, but I'm afraid there is no concept within the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and especially that there is no will to get rid of this. Except some experiments or pilot projects are being re-implemented. Secondly, we're talking about kids here, but I'm afraid under the kids we kind of forget about those kids who have 1 minute or 1 hour or 1 day. That somehow under children we always mean something that's more than seven days old or maybe a month old. I ask myself, do children have the right to have their fathers present? Do these children have the right to "rooming in" or to have mothers and children placed in maternity care together after childbirth? There are also how many hospitals we have in Croatia that carry UNICEF's "Children Friendly Hospital" certificate. What about sick kids? Do sick children have the right to have one of their parents at the hospital when they have to stay in the hospital, and how many hospitals can give these children the right to accomplish, to be their parents? Of course, someone will say that the county needs to worry about it, but the situation did not arise in 2001. If we're going to be bad, we can ask what makes the state in the clinical hospital centers agree with what the rights of the child are. And when we're finally, let me say a few sentences about schooling. The same question arises: Do children and parents who are truly their right to education know? What are the standards that must be provided and what is, for example, with children who have to go to school in three shifts because there is no school space, where there is no sanitary node in schools, where there is no lighting, where there is no sanitary, where there are no other conditions. So, I think we still need to work extremely hard to achieve the right of the child to come up with some desirable standards, minimum standards, and then of course worry about the protection of those rights. Which is where I fully support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37943	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37944	Thank you very much. So I would correct an incorrect quote from my colleague Mršić when he said that 2004 was the worst year for children. Especially in the social sphere, and then he presented several arguments that actually refuted his claim. Because this mess of paying to give someone four and a half thousand for a child, and another 11 grand is just an inheritance from another period. And in the last year, we were just able to record the situation and see what kind of Javezle was actually doing in the community, okay? I would only remind myself that in 2003, the Ministry of Social Affairs divided the associations, which were thousands of 300 registered only in the social sphere of 40 million kuna, while not building any kindergartens at the same time. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37945	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Antun Perushko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Attorney for Children with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, like most advocates and most clubs, I support this quality report by the Ombudsman for children, but I must say that I am also sad that it is so high-quality because it obviously has material, there is a staff from which such a quality report could be created and if the office in this case, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children wants to take this problem seriously, and I am convinced that it has been accessed, then follows a quality report which here today at the debate in the Croatian Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about the problems children face, and I would not repeat everything that was said about this problem on one side of the medal, but I would refer to only one part of the Office's report as a reference to the foster care of another cancerist relative to his colleague Mršić, who spoke about the problem on one side of the medal and I would say in the other part, because I was also warned about the problem of 4 foster families in Istria and in the Ombudsman's report on page 8 that it is certainly necessary to mention that the children's office was addressed by one humanitarian association, I recognized probably the Oasis Association from Rovinj, and I would like to say something about this report exactly where the foster care is concerned because two of those 4 families from Krnica, one from Vodnjan, one from Pula personally know. I don't have the illusion that foster families are all ideal but in the vast majority of cases, and based on their personal experience, knowing especially this family in Krnica who came from Slavonia who adopted 7, 8 sometimes 9 children, I have my grandkids so I know how this family takes care of these children about school and education and sports, since Article 20 is also true. The Convention on the Rights of the Child speaks precisely about Member States providing, in accordance with their national laws, alternative care for such a child, primarily in terms of accommodation to another family... according to Islamic law, adoption or similar to a institutional concern, and what the Advocate General said in her opening statement should be the last choice. And now coming from these settings, of these premiums, respecting the fact that, as is said in the report, the amendment of the law that significant improvements have been made as regards, for example, the issue of fostering permits and restoring them after two years, for example, the mandatory attendance of foster care courses, the reduction of the number of foster children to a maximum of 5 in a foster family, to the establishment of common and special conditions regarding housing, social and other conditions for children, as well as particularly such conditions for children victims of domestic violence. It says in the attorney's report, these positive effects are unequivocally positive effects of the law because this segment also takes care of children, I would say conditionally, more orderly than was, however, in strict application of these regulations, I think we need to make sure that it is people, not things, that the children who have already experienced a trauma of distance from their families for these or those reasons and now if we go to consistent application of this without a particular educational cycle being completed these children are once again exposed to new traumas which I find absolutely inadmissible. I've been warned, I haven't checked, but I have no reason not to believe that I should be forgiven for this expression, from these foster families of extra children above 5, by the foundation of one administrative act, the center for social care, which is executive and on which there is no possibility of appeal, and in two cases I was warned, that a solution was made for example for a family that the social care centre requires the transfer of two children from the foster family for the sake of 7 of them for the reason that the solution indicates that there was neglect in the educational process. Well, if it's for those two kids, then it's probably for all five of them. And it is pleaded if nothing else makes it possible to appeal, to delay the execution of the appeal, and then to include the attorney's office for children and humanitarian associations, and even neighbors who are not insignificant to actually see what kind of thing, and not to include one institute for the purpose of implementing the law and, in fact, to solve it, states something that is not true and that these humanitarian associations are disproved by me, I have no reason not to trust them. Or another case in one foster family in Vodnjan, I do not know whether exactly 7 or 8 children, of whom 2 children are sick, are easier retardation than I know, of course all children deserve care, even more care, and the same administrative procedure orders the separation of two children from that foster family in which I find them 7. And not to look for accommodation for those children with special needs, but these two children are left in the same family and two healthy children from whom it is even such a situation to separate one brother and sister. Therefore, in a good intention of implementing the Law, and I would like to conclude by doing so, I think that it must be taken care of these very specificities in a timely manner, and not until one is done, I would say the educational cycle, and not at least until the right to appeal is allowed and then really see the real reasons for doing so, if necessary, I see from the fact that the Office of the Attorney's Office has shown, that it is said that it will be examined together with the competent social care centre and the Ministry of Health, just today in Vodnjan, there was one consultation, a meeting, a question of how I heard it today, and I am asked that again in this human activity we warn on such a problem, and that with the discharge ministry, we really find a solution that such ilities are absolutely ilities which I do not understand the correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37947	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Okay. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić. Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Okay. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37949	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney. In front of us, we have a report on problems and on issues beyond the tasks and abilities of an office such as the Office of Advocates for Children. Here was the assessment that it was a good report, I absolutely agree with that, it has its failures and faults, and all those who expected this question to be resolved in one way by satisfying the initiative and the work of this office I think they've been wronged. This is a problem that bears the mark of a general character, this is a problem for all of us, and every single one of us is responsible for what happens to children in respect of respect, promotion and protection of their rights. So I say one institution she can do a lot of things and do, but it depends on how much help she is being helped and who is helping her and who is paying attention. I think this report would be much more quality to say in it, that, let's say, problems of some importance have been mentioned, in some sense, by frequency in society, that they are given, for example, the activities that have been taken to solve, means taxing in solving the problem of protecting and promoting children's rights, that they are days and solutions, means successful solutions that have been achieved. An example of successful solutions is that what has not been solved is given and here is the final proposal. In fact, in my opinion, it was supposed to be that the guardian of the children actually drove out all those who, by their duties, were obliged to care for the protection of children and their rights, so that if we drove that rabbit out of that shade of his, I believe that the problem would be much, much easier to solve, and then we would have a different report, a different debate, etc. I think the D.A. was a lot braver when she came out here for a pay phone two and a half hours ago. It is for me, for example, a real example of how a report, supported by examples, should be. From the few examples you have set, it could actually have already felt that you are shockingly affecting this small number of people here in this hall and I believe that such an impression and such a feeling would have been caused by the Croatian public and by all those who want to solve this issue. It seems to me that the situation is much more difficult in life in practice than you have given in this report, and I would like to see the next report for next year to be much more courageous. I think we need a kind of shock that we're all actually shocked, and it's just gonna be him that's gonna make us go through these problems that we're facing. One more thing I've noticed where I have, say, an observation and it's about chapter IV. You are here in Chapter IV. provide proposals to take measures to prevent harmful actions that threaten children's rights and interests. There's a few of them. Of course, they're all standing here. I mean, for the sake of the integrity and quality of the report itself, and let's say and the objectivity of its report, I think it was meant to specify and extend the circle of these actions that threaten children's rights and holders of these actions to finally be identified. This is a kind of social, social pressure on all those who might be able to address this issue. He would have had another remark concerning Chapter VIII. In fact, in that chapter, I want to talk about what's not really in it, which isn't in the report itself, but let's say there is in Slavonski Brod. You have listed in this chapter very briefly half of the activities related to the promotion and protection of children's rights with special needs. Children with special needs are everywhere in our country in society. I see, there are plenty of such children in areas that have been killed by war. Slavonia was particularly injured. It wasn't just buildings, the economy. That's where the people died, that's where the families died, that's where the children died. I believe your office has received information about, say, one association, one clinic that takes special care of children with special needs. I will be free to supplement your report in some way, not to criticize it, but to supplement it with another problem that is present in our midst. In Slavonski Brod works Association to encourage healthy development of children and young people with a basic goal of education and rehabilitation of children and youth with special needs to help them. The association numbers around 230 members, launched an initiative this year to open a special department or one educational group for children suffering from autism at a regular school. This was motivated by an example of Sisak or by an example in Zagreb of what we have here. This year he's got four kids with... And orderly syndromes that are school bonds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since children with combined interference and intellectual skills are different, it would be desirable to open a special educational group of these children in Slavonski Brod in one of the primary schools, so as to meet the principle of partial integration and to train defecologists to use a teacher program that is exclusively intended for working with this population of children. According to the rule on primary education and education of students with developmental difficulties Article 7 these children have the right to a special tailored educational and rehabilitation programme, meaning for... The children are enough with three such children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Parents are of the opinion that it is necessary in this local community to give these children adequate conditions for their smooth development and education that will be consistent with their abilities. Unless such an option is realized, parents are determined not to enroll their children with autistic spectrum of disorders this school year until they meet the necessary conditions for their children’s human education. There's only one problem, I'll give it to you later. We have four families here, their testimony, their application, and I think your office should deal with that part where he can encourage this problem to be solved. Another problem you're probably familiar with is the "Golden Cekin" Child Rehabilitation Polyclinic. This memo was sent to me by the director... Jerkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll be free to read. He says, "The Franciscans from Bologna built a modern center in Slavonski Brod for the rehabilitation of children with developmental difficulties in 1994, which included a registered polyclinic as a non-profit institution that bears the name of children's festivals from Bologna "Golden Cekin". The carrier of the project is the Franciscan monastery of Slavonski Brod. Building this center wanted to help children victims of war and other children with developmental difficulties in this wider area as close as possible to their place of residence. The polyclinic is spatial, technical and humanely well equipped and works for 12 years. It employs 23 employees. With the physical and paediatric clinic in "Golden Cekine" there is and works for more than ten years a stationary with twenty beds where children from remote places who are not able to come to the infirmary. The costs of the work of the physical and paediatric clinics are financed through the contract with the HZZO and the work of the stationers by the beginning of 2005 was financed through the contract with the General Hospital "Dr. Josip Benčević" in Slavonski Brod. In the stationary, children with severe forms of disease are treated due to the need for intensive treatment and have adequate treatment in neuro-muscular development, logo-defect and psychotherapy. In addition, it is especially about training parents in the use of shown home therapy. On one patient’s hospital manual, the patient stays for three weeks with his weekends at home in a circle of his family, and only 14 hospitally supplied days are entered on one of the instructions and thus the price is 30% lower than other similar institutions. Although in eastern Croatia, the largest number of children with special needs and children born with risk factors 3 to 5% of the "Golden Cekin" polyclinic is the only special institution with complex rehabilitation with well equipped space, very professional child workers, physicist, pediatrician, six senior physiotherapists, logod, defecologist, psychologist... They don't have a physiotherapist, a defectologist, a logopede, or a child psychologist. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] In major places in eastern Croatia, these experts are overbooked, so parents use "Golden Cekina" services. Last year over 450 different children were treated, polyclinic Golden... Several surrounding counties, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeško-Slavonska and Virovitica due to the proximity of this institution, the place of stay of the patient and the quality of work use these services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's say there's a cross section here that looks like... patients in cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From Đakova is four in this station, five in Osijek, from Slavonski Brod nine, from Požega nine, from Vinkovac 11, from Županje eight, from Gradiška five, from Nasica four, Virovitica four and nine... It's mostly, I assume it's from a Bosnian plant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ten years of work at the Golden Polyclinic... and the stationers were financed through Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Josip Bencic in Slavonski Brod since 2003, Polyclinic Zlatni... A contract with HZZO for the work of stationers is still concluded with the hospital in Slavonski Brod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year, the hospital paid 90,000 kuna for the work of the stationers a month and the stationary was monthly... More than 150 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no contract with the general hospital this year. Josip Benčević in Slavonski brod, because the hospital now wants to be and the stationary... of Cekin left alone as well as the infirmary due to the inability to make a direct contract with HZZO... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and billing favors. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, let me just say the most important thing. So I wanted to read this to you. If it were actually the Golden Hammer polyclinic, it no longer works, no more financial resources. [[Intruder: It's closed.]] The children with these special needs remain without this service, therefore, we have a problem that we haven't solved, and therefore I ask you to be counsel... They allow your authority, your ability to engage in a solution to this problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the social work center gives... positive confirmation of the operation of this polyclinic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it would really be a big, big shame if one of these high-quality, calibre facilities were shut down and the problem was actually on the street and not more... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37950	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HSP Club. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37951	This is not a report by the prosecutor's office for children, nor is it mentioned here about the work of the office, but this is a report by the child's attorney sitting next to you with her associates. So we don't have some kind of room, some kind of impersonalization of things, but this is about people like the subject and the object.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37952	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HSP Club, five minutes. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Through most of the exposure, we've heard what we should do. I'd rather talk about what has to be done, and the law has to be implemented because we have laws that protect our children's rights but we don't abide by those laws. And the law says that those who abuse children either physically, or mentally they have to, so they don't have to, but they have to answer to the law. And I ask again how many people have been convicted so far for violence against children, how many people have lost their jobs or have not prevented violence against children or reported them and could. Especially those who enjoyed the trust of those children. And when the violence happened, did these children get all the help and protection they needed back then? Or is there peace in the house, home school, neighborhood all tried to hide and sweep under the carpet? If this is where the child's attorney tells us she's not, she can't get a police report, so what do we expect, what kind of law is being implemented, how do we do it? And in the end, I just want to say that as far as protecting children's rights in Croatia are concerned, we have failed the exam and I hope that we will not let ourselves fall to the correctional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37954	We won't. Thank you. On behalf of the promoter Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljaljko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37955	Madam MPs, gentlemen, I'm going to be really 15 seconds, because I think this is, now that I've been talking for a long time, that we've all had enough of me, reports, I only owe two questions. At first, it was very decadent in relation to the reaction, in relation to the media explosion and the abuse of the case, I don't think there are any television cameras here anymore, I don't know if there is or isn't, the Giricke basketball player case, so, but that's already all in the media described. In this case, I estimated that the child’s first major threat was because it was Mom who systematically, systematically called the media and there convinced her whole story about divorce, restraint, and worse still, she convinced the inadmissible court ruling. It was the office that acted in that case in two ways. First of all, according to official duty there was a social care center notice and a recommendation to... Warn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A warning is one measure of family legal protection where the center can call, advise Mom and say that what it does is wrong. Furthermore, the office was even talking, and that's what the MP was actually saying, why didn't... This is not a report on the state of children's rights, this is a report on work that was rather limited by the authorities not doing the job properly, completely excluded from organised societies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that the child lawyer would advise Dad and Mom Giricket how to deal with a child. I'm sorry for wanting to stop this terrible media expansion we talked to both Dad and Mom, after that warning, they both called the center afterwards and said, "We don't need your services anymore, we'll respect the decision, and there's really no more behind that, that I don't knock in the tree anymore, but it didn't happen anymore." So, what he did to the office, we're not a citizen counseling center, but somehow we don't have hearts as long as people in trouble come in if we see that the system doesn't work that we drive them out of the door, I just can't do it like that. Secondly, when it comes to media expansion, it may not be the only case of Girickek, of those people who are public figures, or politicians, we have a case of a child who is claimed to have been born in the family of the first Croatian president. We have a singer's case from Zadar, too, a very similar story. So, there are places, these are courts where the status rights of children and the rights of restraint are resolved and the media don't solve it, all three cases were mothers and who were indeed publicly harmful to their children, because they know where paternity and restraint are determined. Compared to all this, just for a little while. I can thank you now actually at the end of this day for your presentations for several reasons. The first time you devoted yourself to this report and its analysis, and even the criticism that I didn't take as a criticism at all, but some guidelines for work, but it seems to me that in a lot, a lot of things we were very consensual, and I'm glad that we're thinking about these things equally. I personally felt sorry for what could possibly be called a criticism, and was not referred to me, nor am I understood, taking myself as an address but as an address of the executive authority's body,... There was no one here today from the executive office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was confusing to me was the government that they agreed with my report without any meaning of me being... to work and a little bit of it is strange to me, but I will certainly get a phonogram from this session and I will make sure that the bodies implementing the laws take note of the reflection of the Croatian Parliament's representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Tomasic asked responsibility, there is no responsibility in this country no one has ever lost a job because he missed something serious. A social worker, a psychologist who was entrusted to a child downtown. One center one child, father abuser as warm and... The parent who afterwards stabbed the child with a knife did not lose her job she was just no longer team leader but lost 300 or 400 or 500 kuna because it was the only sanction and damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I, what are the responsibilities for the abuser? The fines, the thousand kuna, the thousand and five hundred kuna. What are the sanctions for sexual abusers? If fornications are very often a conditional conviction, only for rape, harder... A year, two days, it's a bit of a statistic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For next year, I will be happy to let you and the state statistics know. That's not a problem at all. Thank you for your encouragement on what to do in the future. We wrote a quick note. We will, of course, then conduct an analysis of the availability of alcohol and cigarettes to minors, the threat of health rights, child information and monitoring systems. And I'm going to ask also the honourable representative to give us these initiatives, actually, those that concern the case in Slavonski Brod. In the end, I really don't think it's appropriate for me to have any longer debates. Well, I owe it to Bezovic, too. No, I didn't mention the name of the founder or the name of the religious community on purpose. That I'm not making any mortgage on this case. It is entirely relevant who is the founder and who is the religious community because in the Order we now act in several cases very difficult reports of child abuse in institutions, and it is about homes of social, which are the founder of states. So Home Blessed Aloysius Stepinac, it's not relevant whether it's Caritas, the church, it's home to social care. Could've been the founder of the state, could've been an association, could've been some kind of physical person, no matter what. And I don't think there should be any mortgages or the purpose of this is to create some kind of conflict, so to speak. It's to create a principle, to say that's where we made the mistake. We'll never do that again. In the future, when such a case happens, the State's Attorney's office, the police, the welfare system, we'll agree to work for the other kids. The works can't be prevented. That's quite clear. With all preventive activities, children will always be the target. It will be in the best elite schools, it will be in the homes of the founders of these or those. It's about how the state reacts to these behaviors. And that's what matters. Here's my thanks. As you say in the end, please accept our report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37956	Thank you. So this is what we've finished discussing on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37957	Second. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, it gives the vote a conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2004 is hereby accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 90 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, I accept the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37958	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2004; In accordance with Article 21. The Law on Gender Equality has been submitted to that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was received by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Whether or not the Proposer wants an additional, introductory and explanation. Here you go. Gordana Lukač-Koritnik, lawyer for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37959	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2004, the year in which the organisational, technical and material conditions for the work of the Advocate's Office were yet to be established, shows that the work of the Ombudsman was primarily aimed at monitoring the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Regulations concerning Gender Equality and the examination of cases of breach of the principle of gender equality and cases of discrimination against individuals and individuals or groups of individuals and individuals committed by the authorities of the state administration, bodies of units of local and regional/regional/self-government and other bodies with public areas, employees of those bodies and other legal and natural persons. The lack of knowledge of the law does not, of course, excuse anyone, and especially not the state bodies, but as a result of the fact that the Law on Gender Equality has not been applied to a worrying extent. As one of the priorities in the work, there was a need to meet with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality as many legal and physical persons as possible, primarily state bodies, legal persons with public authority, legal persons in the majority of the state and bodies of units of local and regional/regional/ self-government which, according to an explicit legal provision in all phases of action, must value the effects of their behaviour on the position of women and men. The Ombudsman therefore supervised the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality by numerous warnings, recommendations and for this purpose organised meetings, visits to all counties not only supervised the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality but also encouraged its implementation. But getting to know the provisions of the law was aimed at informing citizens and citizens about the protection against the forms of discrimination prohibited by these laws, especially those outside Zagreb, because the structure of the complaints clearly indicates that the possibility of the law is primarily used by persons resident in Zagreb. Despite the fact that this report clearly shows the application of the law was unsatisfactory both in relation to the enforcement of the legal obligations of the bodies listed and in relation to the communication of those bodies with the Advocate for Gender Equality. It is important to note that the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality should not be seen individually and isolatedly, and therefore the activities undertaken by the Ombudsman should have had multiple effects on the achievement of the constitutional principle of gender equality. In this respect, it was extremely important to monitor the implementation of the provisions of Articles 11 and 30. The law on gender equality under which, within one year of the entry into force of the law of a legal person with public authority and a legal person in the possession of a country or unit of local and regional /regional/ self-government, plans for action to promote and establish gender equality were mandatory. It is not possible to create equal opportunities for women and men effectively if the gender-aware policy is not implemented at all legally envisaged levels, which was both the aim and purpose of introducing this provision into the law. Furthermore, the report very detailedly analysed some of the characteristics of female labour unemployment in Croatia, the impact of employment-enhancing measures, and in particular the national employment action plan, since there is no living up to the principle of gender equality without economic empowerment of women. It is a particular challenge to address the problem of long-term unemployment of women and youth unemployment. Following women's unemployment rates since 2000, we can see that they have been constantly increasing in 2004 and the unemployment rate has been 58.7% in 2004. Through the Croatian Employment Service through the implementation of a range of measures to encourage employment from 1 March 2002 to 31 October 2004, we have conducted an analysis of 29 thousand and 7 women. In particular, the report sets out measures containing the national action plans of European countries which we believe are not sufficiently highlighted in the National Action Plan, of which I particularly point out analytical measures, the promotion of women's education in so-called women. the professions of the future, i.e. new technologies, social measures related to childcare. We expect these recommendations to be adopted in 2005 and in this regard we appeal to both the Parliament and the Government. However, the area of employment was subject to the work of the Ombudsman and according to individual complaints. The attorneys addressed women to whom employers in the employment interview raise a discriminatory question regarding pregnancy, family and marital status while warning them that they are not desirable candidates for work because of alleged frequent sick leave, employers' costs and the like. As regards the area of work, a relatively significant number of cases relate to gender-based harassment and sexual harassment. In cases of complaints relating to the protection of the dignity of workers and workers, which is regulated in particular by the Labour Act, the employer was found not to implement preventive measures in practice. And in almost all cases, the lawyer found that the employer had failed to fulfil one of the legal obligations to protect workers and workers against harassment and sexual harassment. For example, the procedures and measures to protect the dignity of workers and workers are not governed by the laws of the employer, which the Labour Act requires. No confidential advisor or counsellor has been appointed for the conduct of the proceedings and, ultimately, harassment and sexual harassment is not at all understood and not considered as discrimination, until such time as that. no rooms for personal hygiene are provided or are not provided in a way that does not endanger the dignity of workers and workers. Likewise, in cases where the employer has regulated acts of procedure and measures to protect the dignity of workers and workers, and even appointed a confidential advisor or advisor, the proceedings under appeal of workers and workers shall be carried out on a formal basis, and the manner of implementation, numerous failures and errors, and the failure to take measures to prevent further harassment shall indicate a breach of the legal provisions on the prohibition and harassment and sexual harassment as a form of discrimination. Discrimination is mostly carried out in a way that an employer with women enters into a work contract at a certain time. That the same contract extends until the woman is pregnant, and then the last contract ends for a certain period of time the woman stops working. Although the labour contract then formally ends in a legal manner, it is evident that it is a widespread discriminatory procedure for which the legislator must find an appropriate legislative solution. So using one neutral legal standard, women are discriminated against for pregnancy. One large part of the report concerns the issue of violence, and above all the issue of domestic violence. And, of course, the conclusions were made in relation to the complaints received by the D.A.'s attorney. This means that they are not generalised, but they are concluded on the basis of these complaints. And the main problems, whether it be social care centres, were the police that in recognising violence other than physical violence, and that when there was a physical injury and there was adequate medical documentation, they still do not recognise other forms of violence although Article 4. The law on protection against domestic violence defines violence in many ways. A particular problem when it comes to police, it is particularly also elaborated in the report, that, with the request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure, in the case of domestic violence, it is not regularly proposed to impose safeguard measures. In some cases, this is not justified by the existence of all enforcement rules to protect against domestic violence. Since the purpose of safeguard measures to prevent domestic violence is to ensure the necessary protection of the health and safety of a person exposed to violence and to remove circumstances that are favourable or encouraging to the start of a new offence, it is important to impose safeguards on victims of domestic violence. With regard to domestic violence, I would point out that, following the adoption of a special law, a strategy was adopted to protect against domestic violence. And I assume that the implementation of this strategy will contribute to the removal of these gaps that we have established in this report as well. Of course, if the strategy is to be implemented. Of course, the report is actually represented by other segments of the lawyer's work. I would especially point only to the budgetary initiative, because without the money being provided for implementing the principle of gender equality, gender, it is not actually possible to achieve what we want. This year, of course, we will analyze whether these recommendations are respected. But in any case, this budgetary initiative would make a significant contribution to women's labour market, as a network of kindergartens and relevant institutions would contribute to their increased employment. It is also important for victims of violence, family violence, to open up a number of new shelters, as we see that these shelters, according to practice, have saved many women's lives. Otherwise, when it comes to domestic violence as well as any other violence, whether by individuals or state bodies, the Republic of Croatia as a party to many international agreements including the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination has an obligation to prevent, prosecute and punish all forms of violence. Of course, we've dealt with the media, and speaking of international contracts that bind us, we've paid particular attention to women, and this concerns our national policy to promote gender equality, women to minorities. So in the lack of data, we mainly analyzed different research and, of course, it continues in 2005. We haven't even gotten much information yet. Co-operation with persons with disabilities has also been initiated, as there are also national policies, especially for women who are victims of violence in the event of people with disabilities, these forms of violence are particularly difficult. In any case, the specific measures that the state needs to implement, which I have concluded and stated in the report, is something without which the shift really really does exist in achieving the principle of gender equality cannot be. It is also important to say, in conclusion, in view of the worrying, the way the law does not apply that without implementing this law, it is not possible to talk about gender equality as a matter of democracy, the issue of human rights, the issue of the rule of law and the question of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37960	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Gender Equality. Dear representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament held at the 21st session on 17 May 2005 discussed the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2004, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality Act of 11 April 2005. The Committee discussed this report in accordance with Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body. In the opening presentation of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, he met the Committee with the activities undertaken concerning the monitoring and implementation of the Gender Equality Act and other regulations which legally elaborated the constitutional principle of gender equality, which relate to the 2004 reporting period. During 2004, the Ombudsman’s Office for Gender Equality acted in 3.739 cases. Priorities in the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2004 referred to monitoring the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Law on Gender Equality is prescribed to adopt action plans within a year of the adoption of the Gender Equality Act, which entered into force in 22.7.2003. Action plans, i.e. The action plans necessary for the management of gender-aware policies under the law were to be adopted by 22.7.2004 by all state bodies of the legal person with public authority and by a legal person in the majority of the state or units of local and regional self-government, however, this has not been done in most legal entities. According to the prosecutor for gender equality, law enforcement is impossible without the adoption of action plans. The lack of knowledge of the Law on Gender Equality of Legal Entities to which the Law applies has led to the absence of the adoption of action plans to be adopted by the end of July 2004. A significant part of the lawyer's time focused on the media presentation of the Law on Gender Equality in order to meet and sensitise the widest public. It is pointed out that media today, unlike before, still pay much more attention to this issue. In particular, the debate highlights the employment and position of women in the labour market, the coordination of private and business life and the participation of women at all levels of decision-making. It has been indicated that without the help of the state and the adoption of specific measures for women's employment, a negative trend from cca 60% of unemployed women cannot be stopped. It was also pointed out in the debate that the representatives, and particularly the members of the committee, should be provided with a summary and a basic material for the sake of greater insight into the situation and problems in this area. This would lead to Article 178 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament equally applied to the report of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the Advocate General for Children and the Advocate General. In the debate, the members and members supported the 2004 Ombudsman's Report on Gender Equality, noting that the 2004 report is the first full report that points to existing problems in a transparent and objective manner. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2004 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37962	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37963	Thank you very much. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Ombudsman's report on gender equality. Gender equality is a fundamental principle of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. In 2003, the Law on Gender Equality entered into force on the basis of which a Regulation on Gender Equality was adopted by the Government last year. In accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, the Office and the Advocate-General for Gender Equality control the application of the said law, plans for action to prevent and prevent discrimination from state to local level, the taking of positive gender discrimination measures, the regular analysis of the field of education, curricula, the conduct of statistics towards sexual representation, monitoring of media presentations of gender equality, and the monitoring of the labour market where sexual discrimination, obtaining work, progress or cancellation occurs most often. This report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality makes it clear that the Law on Gender Equality does not apply to any of the approximately satisfactory extent. Gender equality is often seen as a fundamental criterion for democracy. At national level, we have a strategic national document on promoting gender equality. During 2004, the Gender Equality Office processed 3,739 cases. Cases of breach of the principle of gender equality and discrimination in employment and labour areas have been considered. The biggest problems are the problems of pregnant women and mothers. It shall be concluded with a work contract for a specified period of time, extended until the woman is pregnant and after returning from maternity leave shall be assigned to the corresponding less valued tasks. For the same jobs, women have fewer incomes and less pensions in the future. To praise the co-operation of the government's Office for Gender Equality and Advocate General in the realization of several projects aimed at the different aspects of women's position on the labour market. The Croatian Employment Service has developed a national women's employment action plan. The government and the Ombudsman have recently adopted amendments relating to the statistical presentation of data by sex, which will allow for the necessary research and analysis. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that Gender equality laws all statistics must be expressed by gender in order to determine the position of women and men in the Republic of Croatia. The number of unemployed women in the Republic of Croatia reached 190, and they account for 58% of the total number of unemployed, unlike men who are currently 42%. 48 thousand unemployed women are between 40 and 50 years old. The government has proposed specific employment promotion programmes, and we heard it through the employment office. The National Action Plan rests on ten guidelines for employment set by the European Union for 2003 for Member States. By changing the traditional pattern of attitude towards women, a well-founded media campaign can be launched. Unfortunately, we witness the manipulation and degradation of women every day. The example of "I'm changing women" in part of the contract they signed is that anyone in the project could publish forgiveness, present private-intimal defamation facts about competitors, family members. Could someone have helped these women and did the office do something? And then we read a terrible sentence on the front page of a newspaper for the defense minister's wife and intergenerational solidarity. A newspaper title to which there has been no response from the Advocate General for Gender Equality or not presented. In accordance with Article 16(1), Media law, media are obliged to respect privacy, dignity, reputation and honor of citizens, and especially children, youth and family regardless of gender and sexual commitment. A significant part of the activities of the prosecutor for gender equality in 2004 is aimed at considering complaints from victims of domestic violence. Often state institutions are powerless. In the treatment of domestic violence and the protection of victims of this violence, it is of particular importance to adopt a national strategy against domestic violence for the period from 2005 to 2007. The government declared September 22nd the national day of the fight against violence. Unfortunately, violence is not yet reported to a sufficient extent. When there is already some knowledge of domestic violence, there is generally no application to the police or to the competent municipal state attorney's office. Under the Law on protection against domestic violence, a bully should be convicted and punished and all legal aid granted to a woman. Violence among adult family members is not often brought into any relationship with violence against children among parents in some welfare centers. To praise the lawyer's work in the county after which many counties have developed action plans to promote and establish gender equality. In the lawyer's report, the Ombudsman warns that our positive laws on pre-school education, primary and secondary education are still not fully in line with laws and regulations promoting gender equality and such provisions are not directly incorporated into them. Finally, the report points to insufficient application of adopted laws in this area as well as the United Nations Conventions itself to remove all forms of discrimination against women. Let us remember the unequal possibilities of women and men on the labour market, especially when it comes to age discrimination against women, women with disabilities and minority members, Roma women. Real women's existence and everyday struggle are mentioned figures such as default 60% of child alimony, which most often remains with their mother after divorce. 75% of all victims of mobbing are women. The pay gap between men and women is up to 33%, etc. Given the extensive report and the concrete actions that the Ombudsman points to, the HDZ Club accepts the 2004 Ombudsman's report on gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37964	Thank you. The word on behalf of the SDP Club has a distinguished representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Advocate General for Gender Equality was appointed in the second half of 2003, so this report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2004 was actually the first full report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, which this Assembly is considering. I'd like to start by saying that the SDP Club will support this report. We particularly welcome the fact that during the past period, the Ombudsman for gender equality has managed to impose the general public as a relevant factor, recognizable in the sphere of protection and promotion of equal opportunities for women and men. However, many examples of this report point to the fact that many still do not understand what gender equality really means and what the Law on Gender Equality represents. On behalf of the Club, I would especially like to pay attention to the area of work and the position of women in the labour market. When we talk about the labour market, then we need to start with basic data. At the end of February in Croatia there were 330 thousand 183 unemployed persons of which 190 thousand 662 women or 57.74%. This is the percentage of unemployed women who have actually reached the highest level. The employment rate of women in Croatia today is around 45% compared to the average of the European Union, which is around 55%. The Law on Gender Equality pays particular attention to discrimination on the labour market, and Article 13. The law says: "Dicrimination in the field of employment and work is prohibited in the public and private sectors, including state bodies in relation to employment conditions, self-employment, including criteria and conditions for selecting candidates, promotion at work, professional training, training, employment and work conditions. During advertising, the need to hire employees in the ad must be clearly pointed out that persons of both sexes can contact the advertising workplace." Despite all the legislation, however, a solution to national policies, the Millennium Goals and accepted international conventions in Croatia is at the work of discrimination against women on the labour market. And at the time of employment, at the time of the lost work, at the time of the pay. They're harder to hire, easier to lose their jobs, less paid for the same jobs. In Croatia, we are successful, it seems, in lawmaking, but we are even more successful in their non-compliance, i.e. non-compliance. The biggest problems with work and employment are the problems of pregnant women and mothers, so, for example, women’s employment raise discriminatory questions about possible pregnancy, number of children and the like. If a woman is employed by a fixed-term contract, the contract shall not be extended and the woman shall be out of a job. Similarly, after the employer learns about the pregnancy of women, she faces pressures and oppressions, i.e. by creating an enemy working environment that forces her to sign a new contract for a certain period of time during which the working relationship ends. After returning from maternity leave, often women welcome a second job. Of course, it's an inappropriate job compared to what she went on maternity leave from. So it's less paid jobs, poor working conditions, etc. And what should we do now? Support from the state budget for different employment programmes is a reduction. The budgetary item encouraging women entrepreneurship has been abolished and drowned in the item encouraging entrepreneurship of particularly sensitive groups of society, defenders, women and young people. During 2003, 400 loans totalling 37 million kuna were granted to women and young people in cooperation with local self-government units, representing 37% of the total appropriations for loans in the programme. It would be interesting to compare that data with the 2004 data, but official data for 200 is still missing. And here, we've already entered the 6th month of 2005. We also have the National Employment Action Plan, however how it is implemented is very vague, except that often everyone calls for what it says. It is not known whether we have requested funding from pre-accession programmes concerning gender equality, which is available for this purpose with 50m euros. The GSV sessions held more than a year ago should be recalled. It is an explicit request that then adopted conclusions be realized. To date, no amendments to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act have been proposed and the Labour Act, which would encourage employers to hire women with children. Furthermore, no analysis and adaptation of the social security system has been developed to ensure the flexibility of women on the labour market. Nothing has been done to introduce tax reliefs for employers who employ women and, of course, detailed analysis and evaluation of how willing local communities are to co-operate with the state in women's employment promotion programmes. The National Action Plan includes the coordination of family life and work, including as many children as possible in various forms of care as possible. The word "try" is really a very wide-ranging formulation that practically has nothing to do with it. By 2010, 33% of children under 3 years of age are thus expected to be provided accommodation in the mangers. Today, only 15% of children are included, and in kindergarten children 90 percent of children will again try to get into kindergartens. Only 35% is included today. It seems, given the current situation and the setting of deadlines very much, this plan is very ambitiously imagined, but given the secured deviation in the form of the wording "try" in practice does not mean too much. Furthermore, in order to make the position of women on the labour market more favourable, measures should be promoted to enable the coordination of family and work obligations, including raising awareness of the need for equal division of household and family duties between women and men. A particular problem is the problem of violence against women. Lately, we've witnessed serious crimes against women again, and that's right over those women who decided to say no to violence in their lives. The problem is that both police and welfare centres still recognize violence as purely physical violence that has physical injuries. Violent behavior is often interpreted as a marital, or extramarital dispute that falls within the private sphere of an individual in whom the state does not enter into, and thus is not obliged to react. The defence attorney's recommendation is that violence is always qualified as a criminal offence, we can support this proposal but this means that these actions are in the future going through municipal and county courts and we know very well what the problem with the overload is with them. Now these courts only solve cases from 2001 if my information is good. In contrast, misdemeanors work promptly, and they can also impose prison sentences, or it may be a solution for family courts to solve this problem, provided that the deadlines for their establishment are not renewed. Information suggests that reports of violence are shrinking, unfortunately this does not mean that violence is less than that, due to the ineffectiveness of state institutions, citizens in the same institutions are losing confidence. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the devastating data related to the development of action plans for promoting and establishing gender equality by state institutions, meaning ministries, management organisations and central state offices. 14 ministries, 4 central state offices, 8 state administrations even in 34.62% of cases did not respond to the prosecutor's inquiry and related to the adoption of action plans to promote and establish gender equality. The results of the remaining 65.38% of cases are devastating, even 57.69% of the waste on those who have not applied the Gender Equality Act or have not adopted an action plan. If national authorities fail to comply with the provisions of the Gender Equality Act, how to expect or ask others to do the same. And to conclude, in the past, Croatia has built a good institutional framework for the implementation of the law and for the promotion and establishment of gender equality in our society, but the real work is yet to come. At this time, it seems to me that I lack the clear and determined will and policy of the Government, which would show that the Government is seeing problems and that it is indeed and not only declarative for implementing measures to ensure the development of a society in which both women and men will have equal opportunities and opportunities in all areas of life and work. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the SDP Club will support this report, and I also believe that the role of our MPs is to give full support to the Ombudsman in her future work so that the next report is much more optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37966	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to say much at all because this is all I've read, I can see it's no use, every time we say the same thing and no one reacts to this, I feel like a parrot. We propose laws, no one follows those laws, we come in a year in general, we propose laws that no one ever follows, and no one ever answers in this country again. I don't know why we're here. I really don't know, here's a look at the Parliament, the women who work here, the state service estimates their work twice a year, so every six months, if a woman is on maternity leave, and she's losing her job, she's got two days of vacation, let's start by herself, if we're jeopardizing law here, and if we're threatening gender equality here that we expect from others. I really don't know, I won't say anything anymore, because we really don't do anything, we come here, we talk, we propose laws that nobody does and that's it, and we're going to propose some other law for a year and say again that these laws aren't being implemented and then we're going to go on, I'm sorry, but I don't feel like I'm needed here or that I can do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37968	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain, on gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37969	Well-respected MPs. This report, as suggested by the Advocate General for Gender Equality on page 28, should be accepted for knowledge, or for knowledge, I would even say not to accept knowledge but simply to accept it. However, it is legitimate to now de-polmise with the introduction of the Ombudsman's Institute for Gender Equality, following this discussion from the Rose we had the opportunity to hear, not because it suggests that the Ombudsman is spending, which I am not interested in, much more than he is, but because there are those who think that the Gender Equality Advocate should work with the Ombudsman. However, I also dare say that there is no classic discrimination against women in Croatia. The Croatian gentlemen are not Afghanistan, for example, if you look at how many journalists of men, women have now gained that status, then you will see that more women than men, if you look at how many men or women report from the Parliament, and there are women in favour, nothing therefore, better. I dare say, how much? That's a good percentage. I dare also say that the same thing in the judiciary after 2000 is, in general, in health care, etc. In my court, it also proves that there is no discrimination of women in Croatia in a classic form. In politics, okay, in representative bodies I agree there are more men than women, especially so-called. independent lists that now, somewhere from once, are glorified and they are nothing but an interesting community that are now "through To God's economics" politically engaged primarily because of their material interest, although all of a sudden they have become altruists, etc., but it doesn't matter, but when they come into office, they will realize that counties and cities can't be run as their private companies. However, to return to this topic, I claim there is no discrimination against women in social institutions, I did not know of this example mentioned by Ruža, I claim that he is neither in schools nor in hospitals, that he is not in administration either. Here in this report mentions public tenders, that there is no distinction between a man and a woman, but I do not know that there is this sentiment of a constitutional court where they necessarily do not consider it necessary to state, well, on the other hand we will all agree when we are at the competition, on the part that there are those furnished but the competitions are always furniture in favour of this man or in favour of this woman, so we are here 50:50. However, the distinction seems to be when the private company is in the process. The truth is no one expects a woman to have the advantage of "in construction, seafaring", as no one on the other hand expects a man to have the advantage of working in kindergarten, or some institution like that, I told the quotes, so that I wouldn't be corrected unnecessarily. I repeat, and with this topic, I find it difficult to say that in that classical form in Croatia women are discriminated against when the social, public sector is in turn, I will return to private. Almost everyone has been discriminated against, and on the basis of modest salaries and on the basis of employment, on the basis of miserable pensions and I keep that fate the same way in Croatia is shared by men and women, so I don't agree to the the thesis that women are scolded by men, helpless, poor, already want to defend the the thesis that both men and women in the Republic of Croatia are in the same difficult position when the existence is Wednesday, and that is the essence for me. I read what I didn't say or know that the Committees for Gender Equality from Buzet, Labin, Novigrad, Poreč, Pazin and Pula page 25 asked for women to be represented by 40% on the lists. I admit I don't know the opportunities in one Labin or newtown, but I do know that in Buzet, all the leaders are women and that those de factos run the city and I don't think it's bad and I don't think they run the city badly. They lead urbanism, socialism, health care, culture, finance, and the truth is that none of them were in the city council where the IDS had most. It's also true that none of these front desks were members of the IDS, although I suppose they probably vote for IDS. But in the chieftainship, if we go beyond five people, they're women plus all the front desks, and then someone might ask who's being cut off here right now. But let's put it aside, it can just look like one icon. Croatia must be facing problems. In socialism, we did not have this problem but in this capitalism and we will in some way follow everything that happens in Europe, America when already this Europe, England or America are not how it used to be the countries of proletarian and then that means that it will actually seem to be a large distance to what this Assembly should oppose when clearly gender equality is Wednesday. While the state is the largest employer in Croatia, so it is not such a drastic case. But year after year, I'm afraid that distinction will become more drastic. What's Croatian problem number one? First of all, unemployment, lack of foreign investment, insolvency, over-indebtedness, but I dare to put in that wound work for a certain time. 90, and even 93% of people are employed today for a certain time, and that's the point, most women. I agree. Why? Because of the pregnancy. And it's tragic. It hurts, it offends, and it has to be opposed. I know there's no company on the other hand especially small companies that behave differently because none of these owners know how long they'll last on the market. It's easy with the monopolies whether they're state-owned or local. There you can do very carefully but with the company on the market which today is and tomorrow is not, which is small there is everything else. It's just that everyone's happy to do business. Finally, I say today are in a difficult situation, let's say small craftsmen, small merchants, small craftsmen, small caterers than perhaps the workers who work with them. These first match the entire assets, live from credit to credit, from debt to debt, and at least the worker has no concern if he gets paid that he has to provide the other person with a salary and before that all obligations will be paid to everyone. Then, where the biggest inequality in Croatia is the way I see it. By sex, no, I'm sure not. The biggest inequality in Croatia is she per year and that is the point. A 50-year-old man is old for every employer. Of course he's not old. Of course someone 50 is at the best of age, but in the market, that man is 50 years old. He's the one the gentlemen won't, and that's the thing. For that category I would say Croatia should have a lawyer away before the Advocate for Gender Equality or Children. This second sounds certainly in, we copy Sweden, Finland, that's nice everything, that sounds nice, but on the other hand Sweden is a country that has $50,000 per capita, Croatia I don't know about $8000 and that's just the point. We live in our world, sometimes we cheat on ourselves and we are not able to solve it, I dare say, the biggest problem in Croatia is that there is no distinction between a worker or someone who is fifty years old and who is 25 or 30 years old. I think that's just the point. Or rather, it doesn't seem to be a distinction between a woman who's 50 and the one who's 25. Because a 50 - year - old person has to feed his family and a 25 - year - old or 25 - old girl has to free her parents from worrying about her or him. It's clear that everyone needs a job, but there's still a different situation. In a country where average unemployment is 19% where we have ends like Istria where unemployment is 6.1% and Slavonia where it is regularly almost over 30% in all counties. Surely we should say something about the Roma as well as about the media. I see on page four that the D.A. isn't following all the local media. No one has anything to follow the Sibenik leaf, however Sibenik is one beautiful town, or Dubrovnik leaf. We will all agree that Dubrovnik is the pearl of the Mediterranean but then there are other regional lists to follow. But now it doesn't matter. It is important that Croatia has problems, and when gender equality is Wednesday, but at this point, there may be bigger problems when working on a certain time is due, inability to hire people, I will not say older people than in the best years and discrimination, for example, on a national basis, but it is now already a topic for the public defender. For the end as I said this report should not be received to or from knowledge. This report should be accepted and the IDS will vote if you prefer it for the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37970	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37971	Here, I would only correct the incorrect assumption that there is no classic discrimination between women in Croatia. It's not in this statistical report, but that's exactly the lack of this report. In fact, it is about the fact that in the analysis of successfully completed colleges and high professional training, you have the representation of women significantly higher than men. When you also observe the representation of women in top positions in any part of the public sector, so from health care and to various administrative and local units of local self-government, you will see that you have very few mayors, you have some mayors but you do not have mayors. You have very few mayors, and let's say in KBC Rebro, the number of people who run departments, medical departments, means top-notch medical positions you never have a wife. You only have two departments that take women to KBC Rebro. So the leading positions are for men. That's not what this report shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37972	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37973	Similar to a colleague of Chichin-Shain's. In fact, it would be bad for a message like that to come out of this House. And to relate to my colleague Chichin-Shain, I mean when we talk about the professional position of women, and even in public services, there's a metaphor of voice... which would be translated as a glass ceiling which is actually a metaphor that shows this invisible border but still the limit as far as society can and as long as it somehow allows it to go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Cain mentioned the example of schooling as a positive example of women, but he did not say that 90 or over 90% of the employees in the school system are women but that over 95% of the directors, therefore, are male. And in similar examples, it is evident that this non-equality, this discrimination, cannot and must not be characterized as such or such a type, it is by definition of a personal nature. So there should be a little attention around those expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37974	Thank you. Did you answer for anything? Here's a bright example of a 15-story lady. Six are women. ... On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37975	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Gender Equality adopted by this Assembly, which entered into force on 30. Seven. In 2003, an independent body was set up to monitor the implementation of laws and regulations concerning gender equality, to consider cases of discrimination against individuals or groups of individuals committed by the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other bodies with public authority, employees of those bodies and other legal and physical persons. We actually have a full year's report ahead of us. After initial troubles with space, equipment, etc., the lawyer for gender equality began to work and 3739 objects said that she was doing and that she had something to do. This means that the principle of gender equality is violated in Croatia and that individuals are discriminated against. If we are to seek relief for such a situation, then we will conclude that the Law on Gender Equality is a new Law and that it has not yet been brought to life in practice. That is true, but it is not an excuse for the tolerance of what women experience in job-seeking and what they experience from the lawyer in the report, I quote: "The lawyers address women to whom employers in the employment interview ask discriminatory questions in relation to pregnancy, family and marital status, while warning them that they are not desirable candidates for work because of alleged frequent illnesses, employer costs, etc.", finished quote. So the employer became an unwanted worker. In addition to individual testimony, the fact that the total number of unemployed is 58% of women who have a better education structure than men is also indicated. Why is that? It would be unfair and unfounded to argue that men are better, more conscientious and expert workers than women. Research says it's not like that. There's got to be a reason somewhere else. In conversations with young women and women of younger age, we will learn that their employer does not hide his perception from their possible maternity leave. The frequency will be heard from the doubt that we have put great obstacles to their legal decisions on the way to employment. And now we have a paradoxical situation. As a success in protecting women, the parliamentary majority points out the reintroduction of a three-year maternity family, while those entitled to this right claim to be discriminated against in their constitutional right to work. Their claim is also supported by the Advocate General's report which established the existence of a contract for a certain period of time extending until the pregnancy of the worker with pregnancy and ending. In such conditions of employment, young couples will find it increasingly difficult to decide on one child and will not think about the other and the third. If we keep in mind that in Croatia today, it is an average of 1.2 children per couple, by closing our eyes in front of the lawyer's report, we accept a completely inefficient, ingenuity policy that will be manipulated for daily political needs and the Croats will be born less and less. Discrimination of women right to work will not only solve the Law on Gender Equality, this problem requires a complex legislative procedure that should be approached immediately. In addition to discrimination in employment, workers are exposed to labour harassment and sexual harassment. She is concerned about the lawyer's findings that employers do not comply with the legal obligation to protect workers from harassment and sexual harassment. Procedures on complaints by workers shall be carried out at formal level and, where a prohibition of discrimination violates responsible persons in the employer, it shall generally be refused to recognise that discrimination and protection proceedings are not carried out. A normal civilized world would say, if the protection of the right cannot be resolved by the employer, then there are courts that will protect the worker's right in their own words. Should we repeat how long the court proceedings in Croatia take place? Upon completion of the procedure, the worker will have in his hands confirmation that his right has been violated and nothing more than that. Well, in practice, we have rulings that determine the illegality of the job and the obligation of the employer to return the worker to work but the workers are not returned. In view of the poor effectiveness of the protection of justice through the court, there are fewer and fewer courages to address the court by ruling in the field of labour and employment without the law that turns into practice. Why does the Labour Act keep employers without a Labour Contract without applying them, and when they dare to ask for paid wages, they are told that they no longer have to come to work? Why isn't our rule of law working? Why are we not subject to the laws passed by this House? Why aren't the mechanisms that guarantee law enforcement working? The defense attorney herself cannot fight the windmills alone who have escaped control of the entire state-run apparatus. I believed that a long ago predominant non-human social order in which men, women and children were paid differently for the same work. Reading the report, I see I was wrong. The lawyer says there are some research in Croatia that indicate that women are underpaid in relation to men in performing identical jobs. Given the low culture of entrepreneurship in Croatia, this would not be surprising, but there is therefore a country that must make it possible. Furthermore, the Ombudsman's report said that a significant part of the activities of the prosecutor for gender equality in 2004 was aimed at considering complaints of victims of domestic violence, the ineffectiveness of state institutions in whose jurisdiction and protection against domestic violence. So again ineffectiveness of state institutions. And then he says, "Analysis of broken cases of domestic violence has shown the following: in recognising the violence of social care centres and police besides physical violence, when physical injury occurred and there is appropriate medical documentation still do not recognise other forms of violence.". We're right to wonder if that's possible. It's possible! That's what the victims of violence have witnessed to us, and now that's what the D.A.'s office is telling us. We wonder who the victims of violence will turn to when those first invited, from whom help is expected do not recognize the forms, other forms of violence. And even when violence is recognised, it often does not distinguish a victim from a bully even when assumptions exist, so they are taken the same measures and are followed by the same actions. If it wasn't tragic, it would be comical. Have we silenced ourselves, silenced our own conscience when we realized that there was violence in the family and put it in the jurisdiction of the police and the welfare center, and did nothing to enable them to at least be able to recognize the violence even when there was no abundance of blood and broken bones. Fellow violence in the family is a serious problem. Violents are husbands, fathers, and less often women and mothers. Violents are sons and daughters, and victims of violence are increasingly parents who gave life and health to children who eventually became abusers to them. To whom will you old, weary, and most often ignorant address you? By the nature of things to the police, and the police will do nothing until they are wounded and beaten. It doesn't seem to me that we are human society based on the reports we are now considering, but also on reports that we were considering earlier. I'm an attorney for the kids. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts the Ombudsman's 2004 report, but expects the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take all measures to remove the observed irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37976	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, as well as our club, I support this report very detailedly, very objectively, our attorney for gender equality. What I find special, special, particularly valuable in this report is how it is conceived. And that's that in the first place there was discrimination in the field of work and employment and that woman. Why do I find this very important to come to the first place, regardless of the violence that is taking place and which is not at all reduced but even more escalating against women, and then we see problems in education and so on, but administratively in this area of gender inequality, discrimination against women in employment that, at this point, it is precisely the highest percentage of unemployment of women because it is precisely from the pauparization of women, women's work, from the growing poverty of women and all of her other unworthy, unworthy positions in society. A man, a woman who is not employed, who is not employed, then he is not free. Then he can endure and unfortunately suffer different types of violence and discrimination. The position of women on the labour market is worrying. The normative frameworks have been set, however, the implementation is stuck. The question is, why is that? Why at this point is exactly the most unemployed women. But in general, there is a growing number of unemployed people at all. So both men and women. We're back, we're back with that scary situation where the worker doesn't pay. In such a situation, women are even harder to pass. The employer, the employer is even easier when he doesn't pay the worker, it's even easier not to pay the worker. So think, and as far as we're concerned, we're dealing with this because the efficiency of a government on this particular issue is being questioned, it's going through or down, to do what we can and where there's no resistance. And so I wonder why we shouldn't? If the Penal Code provided for a criminal offence not the right to pay the wages but the crime does not pay the workers, not the right itself, if, during the term of office of this authority, this Penal Code has experienced the fate of being abolished, then the government is constantly rejecting the proposal, it does not come out with its proposal because it would in any way facilitate the government's position against employment. That's no problem. If we are really in that conflict of ruthless and often suspicious capital, in that conflict are we on the side of workers. So in, and such a situation where the position of employment has never been easy, but this is definitely not a good time for a worker, and at least for a worker. So the woman is an increasing number that are unemployed, difficult to get to work and not just more in the middle years that in the process of conversion and privatisation were the first to run out of work but now and all the younger workers, the workers can't find a job. The weak ones are paid. If the government's policy is, and from the highest point of view, I am glad that it happened only in the first few months, that it no longer repeats the call for women to stay at home to improve our demographic situation, it would be dedicated to raising children, then it is something that is directly contrary not only to the Constitution but also to the Law on Gender Equality, and also to the Family Law, which says that parents, both partners are obliged and responsible for raising children. That all jobs must be shared together. The way life lives, the private lives of women living prevents them from activities in the public sphere, disabling them often, and when they are given a place of work because on its shoulders is not just not just those jobs that take place in the house but rather child rearing, and often care for the old and powerless parents. Both partners. So if alone, a single social climate is set up so that by nature things belong to women then in vain the laws we have passed. Then there will be no such changes. Lately, they've also been shaking here's the story, unfortunately, the truth about the murders, the terrible violence against women. We have seen from the report, and from the oral presentation of Ms. Attorney General for Gender Equality, that very few express the measure of the distance of the bully from the family even though there are legal families. I would dare say in this normative activity during a former government that was very fruitful that the most valuable is this norm, that institute the distance of the bully from the family. However, we can see that it is still applied as much as it is, but not enough, to a sufficient extent, not to a sufficient extent. And it's something that reflects exactly that one spirit, that one mood in public. So there's always a question about situations like that and where does it go? However, we just need to be guided by that basic principle that law is never, but it is never a duty to take refuge in force and in the face of injustice, so how strong it was. If we're being one-hearted then I think there's a lot we can do. And I think we all share our common opinion on it. What I find also very important and is good from the start to draw attention to promoting the principle of gender equality in education itself. So our education is still sexually defined. Although the provision of Article 14. The law on gender equality mentioned in the report is perfectly clear, education on gender equality is an integral part of the system of primary, secondary and higher education, as well as lifelong learning, which includes preparing both genders for active and equal participation in all areas of life. So that's the private one and the public one. But what we can say when the day, even today in our national occupation classification, is: the secretary, the secretary of the director, the housekeeper of the aircraft, but there are informers, engineers. Then there's no need to be surprised at public advertising when employers are looking for a cleaning lady and an informer. So it would be quite strange to have a cleaning lady and an informer come forward. The language also discriminates. And it's commendable that for the first time and mentioned somewhere like this publicly, and it's really for every praise. So the language discriminates. Because it's kind of, sometimes they seem to be insignificant things, but that's exactly the way they're wrong again with us, they generate these stereotypes that, at all costs, we want to root out by law. And we're acting differently in our lives right now. With that in mind, we see what is happening in our media that is, in any case, responsible for this question, that this issue is sensitized in public. But there remains one big problem, the advertising problem. So in this ruthless battle for profit, manufacturers who advertise their products in a completely inadequate way portray a woman as an object, show her as the only one who has to worry, so also about laundry powder, that is to say, the day-to-day household jobs, while the question of buying cars and similar items is reserved for men. So we're going back to the textbooks again. So again from that basic childhood, Dad's got a car, mom doesn't have a car. Dad's out, Mom's in the house. Fortunately here in the last year, in the last few years...... However, yes, it is true, it's changed, it's been a few years ago. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Fortunately, we don't have such beginners anymore, but there's still a lot of presentations and women in the textbook and later we see in our media, or through commercials that we have a completely inadequate view of the woman, then I say, we don't have to wonder what the position of the woman in society is. So if there was no lawyer for gender equality, we would know it from our experienced life, but we wouldn't have such an opportunity that in this way we could not only talk, but then on the basis of this report that we will accept, which we can change and what support we give to the Ombudsman, which is in other state institutions that needs to be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37978	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37979	Mr. President, a quote. "This government in the first months called for women to stay home." That's not true. ... This one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not true. This government stimulates the right to choose. And this government, or representatives of this government, or in opposition or position. As you of the opposition, we from the position have the right to take our stand and women. It's a woman, not what's in my eyes that's in your eyes. And the value of a woman is not spoken in a political way like you, your ideology for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37980	Thank you. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37981	The woman is, the value of the woman is...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37982	Infringement of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, as the representative has misused this institution to correct the incorrect allegations. She didn't fix it. She twisted my exact quote. Because Prime Minister Sanader in early 2004, I don't know exactly what the month was, but certainly the first half of 2004 to visit Split publicly invited women to stay home. I've got a newspaper article on it. That's what she wrote. That's what our media wrote about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37983	Thank you. I don't think it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure. ... Not you two now. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come on, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tell me the article I hurt, and if I didn't, I'll take your word for it. Which article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37985	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37986	Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37987	... They have to tell the truth. [[Specially enabled.]] The colleague did not tell the truth, and Rule 214(b) is to belittle others, especially those who are not present.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37988	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Representative Stazic is not in the hall. Dear representative, just arrived Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37989	Well, here's what I'd like to do about this report by the attorney general for gender equality, not to repeat everything the predecessors said before me on behalf of the club, maybe just two things. The first is that it is very worrying that the number of women in total unemployment has been increased this way. I am truly sorry, my colleague Sobol has raised the question here in the current hour why the ministry did not create a employment plan that could have received certain financial resources from the pre-accession European Union funds. Because it's, like, The neighbouring Republic of Slovenia received very large funds for some programmes, and we could get considerable funding that there was will and desire and that a programme for employment was made, we could get considerable funding for primarily education when it comes to sexual equality in the employment of which there was a lot of talk here, that it was therefore detected as one of the very big problems. So the resources we could get didn't get exclusively because of our inertness, and that's why we have an increased number of women in the total number of unemployed. And it's really a question of who can give up half of their brains, knowledge, energy, potential in this country just to keep that figure at the Employment Service. What my colleague Ingrid was talking about and what she experienced here now is attacking to tell the truth. I'll say that unfortunately many centers work in a completely wrong way. Namely social care centers that often decide who a child will belong to. I was here this morning during a debate about the child's attorney's work on the case of a little girl, so who lost her family in a car accident and who, where the center was deciding whether to stay with her aunt or to be given custody to her uncle. So the center decided that the child should go to the custody of his uncle. And as an arduous circumstance for aunts in the decision of the centre, which, worse still, was confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, was expressed like this. So the lady who is the wife of the uncle, I quote: Because of the organisation of life, there is more time and energy because unlike this aunt in Zagreb, there is no working relationship. So it's amazing that the situation, so one status that a woman is unemployed in this kind of discriminatory way is used and that it's said that an unemployed person is a much better guardian of a child because it can be devoted to him because he doesn't work. I must admit that this is some other legal system and some other legal state, and not yet the Republic of Croatia in which we do not have such raised birth sensitivity, that this would certainly be one solution that would be rejected because of this kind of discrimination by the restoring ministry, unfortunately, this has been confirmed by the resolution ministry, therefore in the second degree as a administrative body. As far as I'm aware, this will end with the Constitutional Court's constitutional suit and we'll see what the Constitutional Court will say, is this a violation of gender equality and a kind of discrimination because a woman is employed, and yet in one place, the lady is preparing a doctorate, and it's a serious crime, and it just makes her uncomfortable and inappropriate to be the guardian of one child. And finally, I'd like to say that we certainly have one in this sense new legislation, I mean something like two years, something less than two years, we have a law on gender equality. It is certain that this law did not fully enliven primarily because it should be implemented through a series of individual laws, yet it is one principled roof law. So it hasn't done much in the last year and a half, and it has to be said that we simply need to raise the education of our people. Some have made an effort and done research among high school students and it is very interesting that these children recognize as much physical abuse as they do in the family, but do not recognize all other forms of abuse, so they do not recognize mental abuse or recognize what economic addiction means and the kind of economic abuse of family members. So I think, and for years, I've been pushing for that kind of education of children, so learning from the earliest stage already somewhere in preschool, breaking these sex stereotypes, so all of which is being dragged through primary and secondary education, that it has to be present in our textbooks so that all stereotypes should be as much kicked out of our education and education programs as possible simply because some people today at some minor age can hardly be educated about what gender equality is and how others should be respected regardless of sex, but I think that's why they should invest in children, so there's a lot more to be invested in young people than they are, so there's a lot more to be made of people who are already quite formed. And in the end, there is one very big problem when it comes to domestic violence, which is simply something we said this morning, and it is a non-compliance by law, so many do not report domestic abuse when they find out about it, in some way they do, because we in the Penal Code, so it seems that it is a criminal act of the moment when it is known for abuse when it is not reported and it is indeed a question after this morning's debate, and after today what counterpart Ruža Tomasic said, in this country no one seems to comply with the law, no one respects the laws, we do not have effective mechanisms to force at least those who work in the state services to comply with these laws and to respect these laws. And apparently until there are good mechanisms to make people follow the law, the law when they work with it to read it and stick to it, to respect it, so we obviously won't have a move. As for some other legal provisions, I think we will need a few women who will be persistent enough, courageous and stubborn enough to draw some things up in court, so to raise certain applications, but we will also need one of the brave and honest judges who will finally judge a certain verdict, because there are legal opportunities for that, however, I have not yet found a single verdict where someone would be punished for not respecting the Law on Gender Equality and a series of other laws that we have incorporated into gender equality provisions that are systematically breaking every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37990	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for a 10-minute hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37991	Dear Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to start by saying right away that during schooling, working in the family, I didn't feel and I don't feel unequal. And by the very fact that we're women and I'm a woman, it puts us in a different and often more difficult and complex situation. When we talk about gender equality, then it's always right away in the first wave that it's about protecting women's equality, and it's really important to say that this is about protecting both men and women. I see with this question that we have been seriously engaged since 30.7.2003 when the Law on Gender Equality entered into force, and the body of the Advocate General for Gender Equality was established. We can see that the D.A. had a lot of work to do, that she was involved in 3,739 cases in their resolution and that she had other activities in relation to education both in the county and in the institutions. But what I would refer to here is a matter of complaint. We see that there were relatively few of them, I could say really little, 88%. Is it because it is a lack of guidance so that such complaints can be made, whether because they think that the attorney can't solve these issues, but in either case, it's not good for us. But what is good to point out here is that the pit is the largest number of complaints, so 90% of the practical cases are women, and of that, about 53% are family inequality. When we talked about violence, then we also have information that 46% of this violence is happening in the family. So where a woman should be looked after and protected both as a wife and as a mother, we see that she is exposed to the greatest inequality and the greatest violence. It means that our attention should actually start with family. Then other complaints here are certainly 35% signs of work and employment. The lawyer presents these frequent complaints, which was also heard in the debates, that employment and discrimination in employment are being heard. We are certainly aware of this, and daily we meet to ask the question of both pregnancy and family and marital status, and then the employer applies immediately to how many women will be left out of work, and in fact there is a lot of the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute since the first day, but this also encourages us to think that the people who are threatening extinction are actually, that first of all, the acquisition of profits is also through children and pregnant women. That is why it is good that this National Employment Action Plan, which is also based on the guidelines for the employment of the European Union, has been drawn up several times, but it is so important that I will repeat it anyway. That women in employment participated here in 2001 with 45.5% and that number fell and in 2003 there was only 37.1% while in unemployment again a different situation that in 2003 the same number was constantly falling and we see even in 2004 that it continued, so in 2003 it was 57.3%... in unemployment. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, our pain is state-level unemployment, it was about 18.2% that year, and I'm afraid I have to say that in my County, we were in the lead here with 35% of the unemployed, and we hope that here we are with our own strengths and with the help of the state that we'll get out of it. However, we must say that some data are encouraged, that for these special programmes, it means in their implementation from March 2002 to October 2004 that 62,000 243 persons are employed, which is not a small number and 46.6% of women, or 29 thousand. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, with the aim of encouraging women's entrepreneurship, has positively resolved 335 demands through the women's entrepreneurship programme. Here, several times in the debate, it was pointed out that this government had stopped the employment of women. This figure says it's not like that after all, and surely in all the projects we have here, others, that a woman was hired for sure. So that's one piece of information, and here's one that can serve us positively in this whole situation. Here I would point out from these guidelines in view of the county I come from, these guidelines 10. is a regional policy which is actually an incentive for employment in rural areas and agriculture and that goes through education because today's agriculture can really respond to today's time. So, through education, through research and market development and with one stable market. Then there are these new methods in agricultural holdings, especially for the prominent programme of these young farmers. Because young people would stay in the country if they had good programs, and we can see that they will. Young farmers, then environmentalists, are extremely important to us today, as well as disabled people and women. In the end, I would say that today our society is still not sufficiently sensitive to gender equality. Sensitization and removal of a traditional pattern towards women are certain to make progress in a continuous, well-designed and media campaign. Then through the system of education it is also necessary to promote gender equality, but certainly that each of us by... It can contribute, and so can we women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To apply an equal and equal relationship when it comes to both daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law, both mother-in-law and mother-in-law, and in life we know that often these relationships are not always equal and even. Then, the specific measures that should be encouraged are measures to coordinate this professional and family life of a woman in order to encourage her return to work, or facilitate employment. We know that harmonising this family and professional life isn't easy, but it's certainly not impossible. I find this particularly important, so adequate care for women, children when it comes to preschool and school age. We see that in the report, here, that's what we're going to be working on. Then, we must point out, however, that the poor representation of women or the insufficient representation of women is when it comes to the leadership of state administration bodies and public enterprises, but therefore the high proportion of women in these less professional industrial, commercial and office affairs. Then, surely, it is necessary to encourage women’s entrepreneurship more strongly, and we see these data as encouraging already now. Because yet women participate in entrepreneurship, here, according to this data, about 30%. But certainly special programs include targeted groups such as single mothers of special interest. Finally, I would like to say that the Ombudsman is here, however, saying that improvement has been achieved in the Republic of Croatia, that gender equality is being taken into account in Croatia. Of course, we should continue to encourage these measures and strengthen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37992	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, ladies and gentlemen. At first, I would point out that the Attorney General's report on gender equality was made thoroughly with a lot of engagements and, of course, I would vote for him. Discrimination and violation of the principle of gender equality so far are most often seen in the field of employment and work, family relations through violence against women and children, which we have heard a lot about today and through the presentation of the Ombudsman for children's rights. In political life through the sub-representation of women on party lists, in an unequal share of parents in child care and child rearing. Gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. Of course, respecting the specificities of certain professions where by nature things are in most men or women. Like, for example, construction, educational institutions, health care, here's a facility where I'm headed with 95 women and 8 men. And I warned them that I was on the Committee on Gender Equality that they knew who they'd sue if we violated their rights. I won't talk much about the media, it's quite said, I'll just point out an eclectic example of insulting women and suggesting listening to an offensive attitude about women. Here, I'm usually a sports fan, especially football, and I'm rooting for Hajduk. And I listened, I listened to the transmission of the game Hajduk – Rijeka and, of course, I was also sad that Hajduk lost. However, the esteemed sports commentator Edo Peci surprised me with his comment. In the absence of all the reasons why his beloved club lost, he finally said, I'm going to quote him, which I'm terribly surprised and I can't believe today that it came out of his mouth. He says, "What are you going to say, in the end, the ball is female and you never know how it's going to fall." Well, on behalf of all the women in this place, I'm asking Edo Peci to apologize to us publicly. I would also briefly refer to discrimination in the field of employment and work. In many companies, institutions and also in the Croatian Parliament, for example, I will say an example, two trainees, male and female, same professions, VSS doing the same job. In case the secretary gets sick or doesn't come to work, none of the bosses would have thought to tell that male trainee to change his secretary. It's in itself understood that he's telling that female intern to replace the secretary. Which is just an example for me, a true example of discrimination. It's also one of the problems are and lower wages for the same work. As a result, it is good for the Law to provide for all statistics to be shown by sex in order to be visible. With the lack of necessary research and analysis, it was impossible to specify the actual indicators of paying lower wages for the same job. On the other hand, women should make significant use of all institutional mechanisms at their disposal to protect their rights. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that, in relation to the report in question, it has entrusted the authorities of the State Administration to take appropriate measures in the course of their part-round to remove irregularities listed in the Report, and to further consider, in direct contact with the Advocate General for Gender Equality, certain objections with a view to their rapid removal. I hope it gets good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37994	Thank you. This is what we're done with today's session. There's a follow-up tomorrow. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. SECURE Interrupted at 18.55 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37995	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the Annual Report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality in 2004. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37996	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Attorney. I've analyzed, reading this report acquired an impression that, one impression of the lawyer's work and all the importance of that work and scope. However, there is one thing that seems very important to me, and that is why I stress it. If we look at the report that you've done, you've mentioned how many cases you've intervened in and how many cases you've processed, etc., and according to this number, it turns out that you've had 10 interventions a day in the violation of these, about 10 or more interactions in the protection of this gender equality. However, on the other hand, the response from the field in terms of complaints, the complaint is only 88, so when those figures are compared then it's actually obvious that this is about three possible things, or we live in a country that has no problems, I'm talking about because it's a small number of 88, which is not true or people's problems are not recognized on the ground which can be partly a problem. Or the third thing is that people are not familiar with your work and are not really still talking to the extent that they should be able to correct and correct all those deviations in society and to reduce and reduce the existing problems. I believe that this is the last one, and I think that your work and time before you will contribute to the benefit of all, and you and your office will become a very important instrument in the future even more than you are now. Further insight, i.e. by more detailed analysis of this Report, I think it can nevertheless be concluded that in Croatia there is no inequality between sexes of the kind the world knows, especially there is no such inequality as women who know the world, no matter who thinks in this House I truly believe and thank God that we live in a society that does not have these problems in the world that exist at that level. In Croatia, the big problem is when we talk about gender imbalances in the area of work and employment, and I agree with that, but unfortunately we can't push one side for a free market that drags behind us to a sad and free choice, I don't know if you've given a company and you've given it the option to choose which they will take as a worker. So, I'm afraid that we won't be able to arrange it quickly and simply, and I'm pushing hard for the protection of pregnant women, and then, in your report, it also says that you noticed that when women return to work after maternity leave, they are being redeployed somewhere else, etc. And it should certainly be prevented. And then when it comes to advertising, I'm surprised that in the fields of the Employment Service there are no rules of advertising but I would have one objection to advertising in the media, so I speak in the press. I don't think that this problem can be solved in a way that some of these publishers are taught only that, but it would be good to treat it the way they are treated with advertising, if tobacco products are banned as such, then you don't have the right to advertise them, then you don't have the right to advertise in accordance with the law. So it's the same way to stretch the inequality as it is. Someone here talked yesterday and I see reactions on this side of the pay phone, and when I say thank God in Croatia there are no gender imbalances, and when it comes to women, someone was saying that, for example, in medicine and in many other activities women and men are equally employed, I would say even that some colleges have become almost female universities, and medicine is moving towards it in its own way, and on the other hand they say that doctors are very rarely hospital principals, institutions, university professors, etc. I'm afraid we're going to get into a big problem here, if we do this in a certain way, and we're going to demand that as many or as many doctors as we can be directors of the clinic. For what? One doctor can be a good doctor and do not choose voluntarily not to choose to continue to activate in terms of working on scientific projects or obtaining other conditions that are needed to actually run a clinic. She can willingly decide to devote more to her family, to her children, or to another hobby. And of course the patient is absolutely irrelevant in Croatia, and I am responsible for saying whether he is being treated by a doctor or a doctor, as I neither care nor any of you whether the plane is operated by a woman or a man but whether he is doing it right or not. So, I'm afraid when we talk about these categories, we can get into the wrong places, and we need to be very careful. I would point to another kind of inequality when it comes to women and men in our society and society in general, I would characterize it as an inequality in incompetence. So there are equally severed men and women. So if one job is run by more candidates especially in public services then it would be good if no outside intervention could choose, or give priority to this or that, rather than actually having his competence decide on his place. So I keep it more important and more significant. When it comes to processing here a special category so... in Croatia, that is one part of your Report is dedicated to the Roma. For both the group and the Roma, I think, thank God in Croatia are neither less discriminated against nor on this basis, and the Roma are a people, so I'm a little surprised that in any case in the reports on gender equality the category came, it's more a matter of national rights, minority rights, etc. When it comes to Roma, I think that these issues that you have are more questions about their education, more questions about family formation, the number of children, the issues of integration into society as such, and it is actually stemming from their culture, beliefs, their own commitment, traditions as they result neither know music nor dance, etc. So I'm afraid that some over-involvement in that part doesn't contribute to their integration in the way we think it should. So, as worthy of music from this people or that or that or dance, let's also say a flamengo which we can thank precisely the Roma and their other values that they have entered into the world's general culture came from their way and their life that can, of course, give us something that seems unacceptable to us on the side. But if they accept this way of life, we must not influence them beyond measure. This and similar questions in my opinion cannot be prescribed by declarations, resolutions or anything because such efforts and who have the best intention can cause me to say meddling in some of my own decisions, in family matters I would say human rights issues as such. The report also mentions significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37997	Please conclude, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37998	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm closing up. I support the report and advocate an acceptable gender equality, or access to it that withdraws, encourages, cherishes, not gender equality that pushes, forces, imposes. In that case, fighting for equality becomes a purpose to itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u37999	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In its many contradictory claims, counterpart Bagaric claims that there are no gender imbalances in the work-law process other than in Croatia, and immediately thereafter mentions some cases. I'd ask a question along the way correcting the false assumption that it's unacceptable equality. But it's an incorrectly dear colleague, gender inequality exists first around salary levels, attitudes towards pregnant women and maternity families, as well as the number of employees and, respectively, unemployed women in general, compared to the number of women in society who are over 51%. And I would warn you, in recent local elections, most of the parties in local self-government and regional units did not respect Article 15. The law on gender equality because you have a large number of candidate lists that no single woman has ever been on. What is it, but gender inequality?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38001	The second correction by the esteemed representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38002	Here, fellow Raven, I'd like to correct your claim about classical inequality. Namely, speaking of a mother, a good mother, and a good doctor, there must be good fathers who are good doctors. That doesn't mean they have to be chiefs of clinics. And as for the pilot and here, I'm not sure that you've ever been in civil aviation in your life without being driven by a woman. So, of course there is an inequality. Thank God, as you say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is probably where you come from that there is no gender inequality or that inequality is not seen at all because you just haven't gotten there yet, or something else has been regulated by law and legislation from Western Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38003	Thank you, Replica, the esteemed representative of Pero Lucin. Shime Luchin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38004	Well, in fact, an esteemed colleague has made a very lucid conclusion in his presentation that there is no equality at least as in some other countries. I don't know what he means. I guess he means that even mothers and fathers don't marry their daughters and that women in Croats don't have to ask their husband out. However, it is also very dangerous to draw out the thesis in the way a colleague did so in order to destroy gender equality or to insist on gender equality. It's a clean sexist approach because if a doctor can't be a director because she has to look after her children, which she has to cook, which she has to be a housekeeper, then it's actually a simple approach that's inadmissible. I understand both traditional and traditional values but the fact is that in Croat women are in an unequal position. You can draw thousands of arguments for that, and I think we need to get involved. Anyone in an unequal position deserves the protection of both this Parliament and this state and all the institutions of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38005	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38006	So whoever was listening to what I said could be that I was inconclusive, etc., I allow it but that I was saying what you were saying I wasn't saying. I was saying we couldn't pull, make it harder on this one or that decision to satisfy this or that. So, you're Mr. dear colleague very respectable and influential in your party. You could have put your wife on the list instead of yourself. Why didn't you do it and satisfy that form? Therefore, I am not to be formally satisfied with the form. The other thing, I just heard another remark that I didn't say at all, and yesterday I heard, not to mention from whom, but on your part, the question of whether anyone would prevent the birth of children too many times is said, look at it in a stenogram, children from irresponsible parents who are very often mentally, physically retarded in this society. Look at your stenogram and it's said. So we're not behind it, I'm not behind it. I didn't say anything like that, nor did I say this. Thank you very much. And that's what I'm judging.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38007	Replica esteemed representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38008	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that the distinguished Mr. Bagarić, who proved in his discussion, and even more so in the answers to these replicas, does not understand at all what the problem of gender inequality is because motherhood uses as an excuse for the inability of professional advancement and does not come to his mind for the same thing as an excuse to use cleansing or to use a term of parenthood which would be a gender equal term.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38009	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38010	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable attorneys, colleagues and colleagues! Here is a colleague, Bagaric, who earlier claimed that in Croatia, as he said, thank God there is no inequality. He probably meant that Croatia has good legislation, we also have a good institutional framework for the implementation of the national gender equality programme, but unfortunately this does not look good in practice. This is evident from this report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2004 and this can also be supported on numerous examples. Let's just see how gender equality principles are respected in the field of labour and employment. The lawyer states in her report that she was addressed by women whose employers in the employment interview ask discriminatory questions regarding pregnancy, family and marital status while warning them that they are not desirable candidates for work because of the assumed fact that they will often be in pains, employers’ costs and the like. The report says, I quote, although the lawyer in such cases, acting within the limits of its legal powers, cannot affect the employer to change his decision in a specific case, may, by giving warning and recommendation, point to employers on their legal obligations in connection with the implementation of the principle of gender equality on the legal prohibition of discrimination as well as possible consequences at a practical level such as the right of the jobseeker to compensate for damages. Such cases, which are not lonely at all, are often kept public mostly silent. I believe that it should be publicly presented and publicly called by employers who are in breach of the legal provisions in this way. So when it starts public speaking and writing about it, when names and last names begin to be called by those employers who in this way violate fundamental human rights, I guess that way will force them to change their own, if not already their attitudes, at least behavior. Recently, there was a case on television of a young girl, a graduate shipbuilding engineer who applied for a job in published competitions in two shipyards. The first one looked at her in wonders because it might even occur to a woman to report to work at the shipyard, so it's a job reserved primarily if not exclusively for men. At the second shipyard, she was admitted immediately to work, and they did not find it odd that a woman was reporting for work at the shipyard. Therefore, our consciousness and our prejudices are still crucial, and the laws are no longer so important. Our society is still quite conservative with a strong partial charge and will in fact be most difficult to change the consciousness and stereotypes that rule in our society. It will fit generations and generations until some attitudes and views change, and only then will we be able to talk about the full equality of women and men. The position of women in the labour market that had a lot of speeches yesterday is extremely unfavourable, the share of women in the total number of unemployed reached almost 60%, and this is the highest percentage of unemployed women ever recorded. Long-term unemployment is most pronounced in older workers, women are paid less than men for the same work. Furthermore, women, unlike men, also have a problem harmonising work and family life. All problems cannot be solved without the involvement of the state, the coordination of family and professional life will be achieved primarily through the development of accompanying services, i.e. by including an increasing number of children and dependent persons in various forms of care, i.e. by including as many women as possible in the work relationship after the absence of work, and not by the fact that the practice is as unfortunately now that the woman's maternity leave ends and her working relationship. Then, a reduction in women's unemployment can be achieved by encouraging women's entrepreneurship and therefore there is a need to develop credit lines for women's entrepreneurship. Only when these conditions are fulfilled will a woman feel safe and will then be much easier to decide on the establishment of a family and children. There is a country, and these are true measures if we want to fix the poor demographic picture of Croatia, and not as it has often been pointed out in this House that one of the very important measures to promote the demographic policy of this government is to restore the possibility of three-year maternity leave and increase maternity benefits. A woman in order to decide on children does not need the charity of the state but needs real security and that she knows that after her maternity leave, she will wait for her job and what she had before birth and not someone less paid and that she will be relieved of caring for the children’s accompanying services. In accordance with Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, are bound by this Agreement. The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the concept of discrimination against women, means any difference, exclusion or restriction made on the basis of sex, which is the consequence or purpose of jeopardising or disabling the recognition, enjoyment or use of human rights and fundamental freedoms in political, economic, social, cultural, civil or other areas. The definition of discrimination also includes sexually justified violence directed against women because they are women and includes acts or attempts to apply physical, mental or sexual violence. In Croatia, there has been more talk of violence against women, domestic violence, and it has become clear that it is something that is happening around us and that we must no longer remain silent about it. But as the report reads, the problem is to recognize violence. Social care centres and police besides physical violence, when physical injury occurred and there is adequate medical documentation still do not recognise other forms of violence. Generally known is the fact that social care centres are understaffed and it is those who can have knowledge of the existence of domestic violence significantly before particularly severe consequences arise. And while there is already some suspicion of domestic violence, there is generally no application. The centres are at best satisfied with the fact that, for example, the hospital reported violence, and believe that they are no longer obliged to do so. And when tragedy occurs, often with fatal consequences, then many remember how violence in that family lasted for years. I am sure that many human tragedies could have avoided that violence had been identified before, that the authorities had applied and acted within their jurisdiction. The time I have at my disposal is actually too short to look at all the problems that are related to applying the principle of gender equality in our society. I would point out only the role of the media that can make a big contribution to changing the stereotypes that rule in our society. The report notes that the situation as far as the media is concerned is better than before but is still far from what it should be like to fully achieve the role that the media undoubtedly have in promoting the principle of gender equality. Equally significant if no more significant role is played in changing attitudes, norms and values on gender roles in society certainly has an education. This requires a thorough review of textbooks and school programs. Surely it is a very extensive job but without systematic access to the education and education of young generations there will be no significant shift in changing the understanding of gender equality as the fundamental values of modern society. Until changes occur in our heads and our consciousness until then we will have a more or less declarative commitment to gender equality. On the basis of everything said yesterday during this debate in the Assembly and on the basis of all of this, it is clear that a lot of gender equality has been done in the legislative plan during the coalition government. A good institutional framework for law enforcement has been built but real work is yet to come. It will be a long time before the concept of gender equality is fully summed up in our society and in our heads, only then will it be something normal, everyday, and not something to be surprised about and asked questions like, unfortunately, this debate could have made us even talk about gender equality, so aren't women and men even. So it's obvious that the D.A. is still waiting for a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38011	Thank you very much. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38012	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think it's important to react and say the following. I do not agree with the fact that for the former authorities, much has been done in the legislative section, namely, something bad has been done, during the former government, it has been passed by a hardworking law which essentially in many situations has offended workers, both women and pregnant women, as well as birth. But what's important is to say all that. Namely, the fact that we are discussing the Report today, and that we see in the report that the Ombudsman is acting as the authority of this Croatian Parliament and she is essentially in this report as it was the first report that shows impotence. It shows impotence because it cannot react properly and protect, for example, young women and pregnant women and childbirth. This all says that we here have to worry and bend our own, our strengths that we have to automatically make changes and supplement laws in order to allow these many things to be removed in practice. Because only by discussing the report, by adopting the report, the situation remains what it is. But we must try to establish the meaning of legislation that will be enforceable and that inspections and other bodies have concrete powers. If we keep talking like this, we'll get to another report, we'll talk about it again, and the situation will remain the same, the same problems will continue. The D.A. won't be able to do anything to them effectively because there's no measure to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38013	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, but you are not colleagues, I, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic, is not there. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38014	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. We've had a lot of discussion about this report, we've had a lot of debate about the state of gender equality, and in this, we've specifically referred to the condition of women, human rights. In my debate, I would just like to highlight some of the problems of one in my opinion a particularly discriminated group of women who, unfortunately, are not mentioned in national gender equality policy, namely young women. And in that sense, I would also ask the lawyer to react more actively sometimes and to encourage some problems to be solved. Why I think and I'm not lonely when I say that young women are in a particularly difficult position today. Taking into account the fact that young people today are generally particularly marginalized and insufficiently affirmed and under-involved group, and this is all true for women, then the least said awkward position of young women becomes clear and understandable, but not acceptable for them to be able to pass through. A few examples, more banal, more serious. Even at verbal level, women are not equal to men. We discussed this only once here in the House, and it would mean that men of all ages use the word "sir." It's not the case with women. A young single woman is a lady, miss, and that wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't used very often in an ugly, ridiculous meaning while they were, or ironic, while older women were ladies. Even at that formal level, young women are not even equal with young men who no one can think of to call them little girls or anything like that. Much more seriously, the problem is being warned in this report and by the Advocate General, saying that it is necessary to amend the national, standard classification of professions and titles and in doing so has my wholehearted support. Perhaps a little less serious but very life-threatening and very important example, which is that most of you, unfortunately or fortunately, have no personal experience, which is police behaviour when a young driver stops police in the car in some kind of patrol especially in the night. Somehow, there is a stereotype of thinking that a woman behind the wheel is a general danger, and then a young woman is better off not sitting in a car because then that danger doubles several times. A personal example a few months ago, I had to open an unpacked first aid box to the police to make sure that it was complete and I had to answer the questions to what this one or that one, this one or that thing in my, my vehicle is for me. It doesn't happen to any man that way. Such, only conditionally speaking, an anecdote and actually an example of discriminatory behavior has a lot to do with it, but I still need to get this debate a little bit serious. A very serious problem when I talk about young women is the health issue of especially reproductive health. I think that girls and young women should specifically educate on the protection of health and health issues related to sex life and sexually transmitted diseases. I was personally shocked by the recently published data on the percentage of infection both students and young women with chlamydia and HPV who have passed a few dozen percent, and I would ask the Ombudsman to really determine in the health system that "screening" on chlamydia becomes mandatory in a particular female population because it really does not only have an epidemic ratio but it really seriously endangers women's health, but also generally the whole to say the reproductive capacity of the nation. When it comes to equality if it comes to equality, I think that education should not stop at young women, but it is also important to do much to educate young men because it is a big problem about their responsibilities in sex life, family planning, which is particularly important and related to the transmission of HPV. There are significant problems and all cases of abuse of young women in their working environments. In doing so, I think of what has already been said about the first job interviews and so on, but it would not, however, be too many things in Croatian society, in working environments that are understood and understood as a normal joke at work, as a normal joke, and they refer to various verbal and psychological throws and various jumps and jokes. I think it's abuse and that young women should be educated to recognize it as abuse and to teach them how to deal with it and how to defend themselves from it. It is also something that can be built really only by raising awareness, it is a question that a young person in general, and especially a young woman, when she comes to a new working environment, has to prove much more and be significantly more convincing in the argumentation of her older and male colleagues in order to begin to take her seriously and accept her equal in the professional and in any other sense. This is not always the case, of course, but there are significant examples that are especially seen in the example of young scientists because the latest recent research that spoke about the profile of scientists says that, for example, researchers are slower and less often than researchers acquire scientific degrees and the highest scientific and teaching professions, or there are even said to form a typical professional pyramid that says the more calling, the more calling women is a team less. Furthermore, scientists are lagging behind scientists and in obtaining other college recognitions such as employment at prominent universities or other high-ranking institutions, some permanent academic positions, membership at academias, etc. What we've already talked about which confirms this research that the minimal participation of women in the distribution of organisational power is history but also recent research has shown that scientists are less paid than scientists. Often, even for the same job, some scientific projects often do most of the work, and others take credit. In addition to the question of sports, the question of women's position in sports as a formerly active athlete always bothered me that women or girls received significantly less rewards, significantly less scholarships at the same level. Even in that relatively stupid phenomenon level, a significantly smaller cup for nothing less important or for nothing less, less success. And in that sense, I think it would be good sometimes to publicly react by the Attorney General. And lastly, I don't think it should be repeated, that it is necessary to repeat to everyone that in this whole topic there is a very important place in the education system because the first sexual identification is also happening at kindergarten. The basic social skills are adopted during primary school primaryly lower grades of primary school, and then this socialization process goes on through high school and I think it is really unnecessary to repeat the importance of education on human rights, the importance of education on gender equality, the promotion of equal gender roles and the promotion of gender awareness in regular education, because I think this is really the best precautionary measure that future neither national programmes nor reports of gender inequality in Croatian society will really be needed anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38015	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38016	Dear Mr. President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. This extremely extensive report testifies to a number of activities in different areas during 2004. Generally speaking, with the role of monitoring, the office also played a prominent educational and preventive role, which is commendable, but the question is to what extent does the Ombudsman's Office compensate for the lack of activity of executive bodies. The only exception is a relatively small number of cases reported by citizens, citizens, legal entities. However, according to information from the office, the number of cases reported in the first quarter of 2005 is far higher compared to last year's period, and the office keeps records of the ways in which citizens, i.e. citizens, come up with information on the existence of the office, stressing the importance of increasing media appearances of the Ombudsman. It is commendable and highlighted the initiative of the Advocate's Office, monitoring the implementation of the law from different state policies through the establishment of state administrations and local self-government to individual violations, as well as the organisation of work in different areas covered by the Law on Gender Equality. In light of the extremely low response of the state authorities and legal persons to which the law applies, as well as the extremely low number of state bodies and legal entities that have fulfilled the legal obligations, the issue of political will and agility of the bodies themselves is raised. If the state administration and legal persons owned by the State, regional and local self-government shall not implement the law that can be expected of others in the private sector or of individuals. It is particularly embarrassing that state authorities are far less agile than legal persons owned by state and regional and local self-government. This also raises the question of the role and effectiveness of the Gender Equality Office which is responsible for coordinating and providing technical assistance to these bodies in the process of producing a gender institutional analysis and the adoption of plans for the elimination of gender discrimination within those bodies. I therefore propose to the Committee on Gender Equality to ask additional questions to the Gender Equality Office about delays and shortcomings in the adoption of action plans to promote gender equality. It is also extremely worrying, in itself, that the high percentage of deafening on the requests of the Advocate's Office by the state authorities and legal persons owned by the state, regional and local self-government, which again raises the question of full monitoring of law enforcement, and it is particularly worrying, given the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, because if the Advocate's Office cannot come up with information that citizens and citizens can expect. It is commendable to include the Advocate's Office in the process of producing a catalogue of knowledge, which is an example of timely intervention and openness of the ministry, the Institute of Education and Cooperation. I'd also like to say something about the media issue and the implementation of the attorney's recommendation. Without systematic monitoring of media content regarding the issue of sexism and discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation, and without systematic orientation of journalists and gender editors, there will be no positive changes. The system of state funding for such analyses and gender equality education programmes is not designed nor does it appear that HTV and other media, both in state ownership and in private ones who otherwise do extremely well, show any political will to finance such programmes themselves. The sign that there is, however, political will would be to hold a debate at the next session of the Croatian Programme Council and the Council of Electronic Media on the findings of a report by the Advocate for Gender Equality which concerns the obligations of the media arising from the Law on Gender Equality, and in general on the role of the media in promoting gender equality. It also commends the initiative on the guidelines for gender analysis when applying public budgets. Another area that requires an integrated approach in the process of reforming public administration training. It is an extremely important strong focus of the Ombudsman's Office on the home analysis of the labour market, i.e. gender-based discrimination on the labour market, as well as on the economic situation of men and women in Croatia. Without investing in the details of this complicated problem, it is essential to ensure sufficient readiness of executive bodies and specialised institutions such as the Employment Service to integrate gender analysis and gender equality concerns into all existing strategies and economic employment programmes. The report points out the lack of initiative of the Centre for Social Labour in the application and initiation of criminal proceedings in cases of suspected domestic violence, which also coincides with objections in the children's report, and the overall conclusion that the biggest problem in Croatia is the effective implementation of existing and quite quality laws relating to the protection of human rights, anti-discrimination measures, especially in view of women, human rights and children's rights. There is no effective implementation without systematic monitoring of implementation and systematic investment in education of staff in relevant professional institutions. It is obvious that the organisational and human capacities of the Centre for Social Labour are currently not at the level that would allow the full implementation of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, and I would suggest that this problem of insufficient capacity for quality law enforcement be specifically discussed on the Committee on Gender Equality, and on the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38017	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38018	The Honorable President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. I'll ask one question at the beginning of my debate. I'm really interested in whether Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is blushing that his economic policy has led to the fact that we currently have almost 60% of women in the unemployment structure or that he really doesn't think it matters. Is it even red because we have been growing for almost a year, especially since we are growing the number of unemployed women in Croatia, especially because in this structure of unemployed women we are growing unemployed women over 50 years of age? So, those women, those workers who are very likely to never get a chance to work again until the end of their work-active career. It's about women who worked 20, 30 years in businesses, who then disappeared, who were robbed, who were sold out in the privatization and nothing. The tycoons today ride in beautiful yachts, in expensive cars, and unemployed women wait at home and sit at the Employment Service without any perspective that they will likely get a chance for their job, for their job, get an opportunity to take care of their family to earn and that basic living needs can be met from their work. And what did the government do about it? Does the government ring a bell about that? Is that why it's ringing the alarm? Does the Employment Office ring a bell about that? No, I don't. Even more to the point is that these measures that the Employment Office currently has are being abolished without designing new ones, even more so, the government has abolished the project of crediting young people and women from whom hundreds of new jobs have been opened. Not only are jobs open, but women entrepreneurs are created, so women who have opened the workplace for themselves, but also for others. All of this has been centralized by the Ministry of Economy and Labour, where it is now reportedly better and greater concern. Unfortunately, neither young women, so women who have completed a certain degree of education as unfortunately nor young men get a chance at their first job. They don't get a chance to gain a job experience and then increase their chances of getting a more permanent job. That's the situation that we're talking about gender equality today. It is impossible to stand up for gender equality if we do not provide this fundamental possibility so that someone with his work provides an opportunity to care for himself and his family. One who depends on someone and in this case depends either on his husband or on the state or on local self - government can hardly build some principles. What makes me think from this report is that gender equality is started or still looked clean on the formal side. I think this report also says that it is important whether units of local self-government, state institutions, state-owned enterprises, units of local self-government, for example, have adopted action plans to promote and establish gender equality. And what if they did? Is that what they've done with the law? Have we come to the conclusion that gender equality has been achieved? I would like to say what the government has done in running for local elections when most political parties, therefore or almost all of them, will not say most of them, all political parties have completely ignored the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Elections in Local Self-Government Units. Because both laws oblige those who run, who draw up the candidate lists, to take care of gender equality. Well, now I'm wondering if anyone has any idea how much there was, what gender equality was on those lists. That one. Second, how many council members we have elected to the municipal, city and county councils. And what will the government do to sanction those who have so ignored the law? So they acted like those two laws didn't exist. The question arises if political parties who are the real sources of power in this society and in this country ignore two laws, so how can they expect someone else to apply that law and respect it? I ask the question of what will happen to a county assembly, municipal or city headship if only men or women are elected to the city headship. Will someone react and demand that both sexes be equally represented in this headship? Or does someone feel that one - sexed headsmen can make the same quality decisions as those in which both sexes are equally represented? We're trying here right now, we're talking about you. It's not good, and that's not good. Gentlemen, we had two months ago to show, we who are in political parties, who have an impact on the policy of our political parties how the lists should be drawn up. And I'll tell you how we did it in Koprivnica. So in the town council of the town of Koprivnica, we have 44% of the council. Of the 25 councilmen, or councilmen and councilmen, 11 women have been elected and 11 women will be in the city council. Of the nine members of the headship, we're still holding negotiations, there'll be four or five women. Therefore, in the town of Koprivnica, we are not the middle of what Mrs Lugaric said that women need to prove themselves more for the same jobs or for the same positions. And it is not what counterpart Bagaric said that someone can put their wife on the list to satisfy the quota. No, Mr. Bagaric, there are 51% of women in Koprivnica, in that structure women have the same number of capable women as those 49% of men. And since there is equal ability on the left and on the right we are both on the list and in the city headship we will allow women to be represented, that women be represented and not as in the vast majority of city, municipal and county heads where women will not be, not that they will not be equally represented, they will not be represented at all, they will not be represented at all. And nothing to anyone. And we'll be back here in a year, and the D.A. will tell us again, "Yes, there's some community or city that hasn't come up with any action plan." So we'll all be amazed at how you can really see that they're bad, they haven't come up with an action plan, and we're not ready to follow that law ourselves in that full originality and sense of the law. Because we can expect others to apply that law only at a time when we will all personally be prepared to say that it is such a law and we will fully apply it. Unfortunately, it'll be a long time before that happens. Unfortunately, there is also a Report on Gender Equality in the European Union, or something broader, where it is said that satisfactory gender equality has been achieved only in Sweden and that the vast majority of European countries have failed to achieve gender equality. We have yet to strive for this European Union, but on that path, it may be good to go first of all, and then, when we give our example, we believe that someone else will respect what we are talking about. But not only what we're talking about, what we stand for so hard, but what we're willing to do and apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38019	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38020	Thank you, Mr. President. In the mass of incorrect allegations, i.e. allegations that I disagree with, I would single out one of them, which refers to the unemployment of women, i.e. unemployment during this government and whether red Prime Minister etc. And this report also says that the trend in unemployment decline was achieved in 2004. ... same for women and men. Therefore, it is incorrect for you. I don't know where you're getting that information from. And the other thing, our prime minister, it's known, doesn't belong to the red premieres. So you don't have to ask that question, you know that. And when you speak of the equality and inequality of women in Koprivnica, you speak as if women and men were divided groups and are separately living among each other. Well, then, I don't know, you're opposing each other. Well with us, I mean with you, women live in families together with men and share the same fate and family and country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38021	Thank you. Second correction by the respected representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38022	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mršić said that this government has stopped projects of women's entrepreneurship and youth entrepreneurship, so I would remind here that clearly this national programme of entrepreneurship is women's entrepreneurship, as well as youth entrepreneurship. I would also say that 355 requests from women's entrepreneurship programme were positively resolved in 2004. And with regard to this employment and unemployment, the lawyer's report clearly states that during the year 2000, so since 2001, the proportion of women in employment was 45%, and in 2003 fell to 37%, and the share also in unemployment peaked in 2003 during the former government at 57.3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38023	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh is correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38024	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like a colleague of Mršić in a whole series of his inaccuracies, because he constantly presents his city as an example of how women are represented on the lists. It's not just you, sir, we've been staying somewhere else and there's almost 30% of women on the list in the town of Split. And when you finished your exposure that you should always go away, then you should have come from yourself, so you're not necessarily an irreplaceable place for the mayor to run for yourself, you have such capable women, and she could have been mayor instead of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38025	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38026	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. This as well as the previous reports that we are yesterday, and today presented in the Assembly, suffers from the characteristics of the generality of the determination of statistical facts, and there is no more subtle analysis of the state of gender equality in our society and the attitude of the policy that the Republic of Croatia is conducting in the protection of these rights. I would agree with this already expressed commendable view, that most of this report has primarily taken up an important thematic area on the possibility of hiring women in the Republic of Croatia. The workplace provides each individual with economic independence which is also one of the key assumptions of avoiding any potential domestic violence. In view of the statistics presented in the context of the overall high unemployment rate in Croatia, it could be a completely wrong picture that there is no significant discrimination in the employment system between women and men, as compared to the total number of employees under individual programmes since 31.10.2004 of 62,000 employees, the woman was 29 thousand and 46.6% respectively. Also in sexual terms, there is no dramatic figure of 183 thousand unemployed women, i.e. data on the unemployment rate of 58.7% of women versus 41% of unemployed men in early 2004. As for the duration of unemployment, the same number of women and men were 43.6 to 41.9 waiting for work from one to five years. According to the statistics presented, there is almost no inequality in employment between men and women in Croatia, but we know from everyday practice that it is not such an idyllic picture. In a transitional period, women's unemployment has grown significantly slower than male unemployment, but of course only thanks to the fact that the economic sector in which women worked mainly was less attractive to privatisation and restructuring processes, but this has been largely compensated in unprofessional and often personal use of motivated bankruptcys, especially in the textile industry since the beginning of 2000. The state of the labour market is far from satisfactory, there are no programmes to encourage female entrepreneurship or incubator or technology parks. Let me say that these 300 and some employees this year aren't nearly enough in return for what they're supposed to be. With a number of reliefs in the first years, women's entrepreneurship could be better and faster stimulated and motivated by local community efforts to encourage entrepreneurship. Rarely or almost never in our society there is the possibility of working part - time, so - called work. ...work although it's one of the recommendations exactly for balancing work and private life. The report does not show how the D.A. pleaded for it. What the Ombudsman herself determines, but only determines, is the area of discrimination against women in the labour market in Croatia sufficiently investigated, although there are some indications that women are underpaid in relation to men for the same jobs, the State Statistics Institute still does not show gender pay. It also does not need to be particularly visible to determine how many women today graduate from college and very often with excellent, and we can even say especially observed success. Many colleges today are said to have feminized because more than 60, 70, and 80% of women end up. I wonder where all these talented nat average women end up when mostly in all the prestigious well-paid places there are men, and these women are mostly the presidents of individual sectors or other important segments of companies. Of course, we cannot change this in the sphere of private, but it is precisely a strong, well-organised public sector that shows the state of the spirit of a country and the state of democracy of a country, and in it we cannot find... the domination of women in the positions of mayors, mayors, mayors of municipalities, and that we are not talking about feminized healthcare where all the heads of clinics are men or of feminised school where the principals are mostly men, and in politics we better not even touch. So what's this about? About the pregnancy and maternity leave that works on the retardation of a woman's mind!? So let's also accept the thesis that maternity leave and care for a young child does not allow a young woman to struggle with supernatural efforts for her professional affirmation, but that could only justify perhaps something late career. So where are those gifted women in their 40s, 50s? But it's not our speciality, in the world of women, although they make up most, they own only one percent of the world's wealth, and that is exactly what reflects power. Domestic violence is also an important topic for us, and it often ends tragically for a woman as a victim because of the lack of recognition of violence and the reporting and evidence of violence and the length of judicial proceedings. The report does not show what the D.A. has done and how it advocates that such violent behaviour against women in and outside the family is drastically condemned and sanctioned, thus sending a clear message that every bully will reach a strict and appropriate punishment. The secret shelters for women are certainly one of the praises of valuable solutions and often the only solution for women and children in need. As a few months ago, a terrible crime took place in Petrinja, in which three women were killed, and in the context of a divorce, I would ask the Advocate General to introduce us here in the Assembly once upon a time to what the Attorney General has taken on this case. Chapters relating to equality in education, gender-based discrimination in language and Roma and Roma women in the educational process only state in principle and tax and describe the problem. A insufficient and very superficial report on the media and respect for the principle of gender equality in the media is offensive and often stereotyped way of showing women in the media supports a discriminatory attitude towards women in society. This is especially important when we know how strong the media is in forming attitudes in society. It is not clear at all whether the Ombudsman has taken action on this subject and how much protection of gender equality is there. Let me establish that the report is slightly unsustainable, that it does not reflect Croatia's policy on respecting gender equality, that it is mainly just declarative and abundant in statistical indicators, and that it lacks the clear and determined will of the authorities to do both in fact and not just declareably work on gender equality. I'm afraid in a year we'll only have the same report on the benches with updated statistical data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38027	Thank you very much. Madam Attorney, would you like a final review? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Lukaj-Škoretnik, attorney for gender equality, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38028	Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the fact that, because of the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality and the obligation of the Ombudsman to give the report to the Croatian Parliament, the key things in this country have finally been discussed at the highest level. It has been a special pleasure and I thank you for every discussion, every support and every objection. Because, of course, the faults of any law, any enforcement, I think we in the office see very well. What I think might have to say, which is partly today, but much more was said yesterday, whether there is equality or not. And what exactly do you do and how do you solve it? I just have to say briefly, whether it is gender inequality or any other inequality, gender discrimination or any other discrimination, we cannot wait for the Republic of Croatia to be economically empowered to resolve it. This is done in parallel, and that is why I advocate that we continue in this direction and that the issue of discrimination and based on sex are being resolved now and here. It is particularly important to say about this, because today there were also words about the Roma, that it is in fact necessary to clarify that this huge part of the Law that actually applies to the Ombudsman's obligation to monitor implementation also concerns the monitoring of the implementation of all other regulations. This, of course, includes international contracts which are the Republic of Croatia. And that is, among other things, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The document makes it clear that we have to, to take care of how we treat women of minorities, women with disabilities, women in rural areas and many other things. Therefore, part of this report was dedicated to this problem as well. And it stems from this, but not only from international contracts but also from our national policy to promote gender equality which also gives us the same commitments. On the other hand, there were words here to the extent to which actually, and that was one big problem in the work of the attorney general, to use repression as much as awareness. However, only in one individual discussion did it come to the awareness of one side, but the other would also be asked for repression. So that balance, in particular in this first year, was achieved, apparently, that even from the prosecutor's side went far less to take repressive measures, and much more to awareness, which will certainly have to be changed. Otherwise, about gender equality, it's important to say, it always seems to me that it's not about formal equality, it's about creating equal opportunities. And then from that, from the assessment of whether men and women in this country have or do not have equal opportunities, there are also conclusions as to whether there is or not gender equality. Of course, we and some international bodies such as the UN Committee on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women in January this year have received an assessment that also indicates that there is inequality. All World Bank analyses show that, without achieving a degree of equality, economic progress is also more difficult to achieve. And this is exactly the correlation that the World Bank's research has been strongly mentioned, and at this point I am stating, as another proof that I really think it is necessary to work seriously on these issues. This year, as shown in this Report, we will have to work more on education issues because last year we were bound by some rhythm of determining the catalogue of knowledge, now the Croatian national standards of education. Thus, there was less activity in this regard. However, I have to say about action plans, here it has been said, my great belief is that if gender equality is not talked about and spoken about and worked at all levels then we create ghettoized institutions and therefore it is important to do action plans which, among other things, I spoke of yesterday, can affect the achievement of this principle. And that's very important. And what else would you like to say, and that was a lot of words here too, that's political participation. The question has been asked if anyone here has been doing anything about it for the local elections. Of course, we in the Office analyzed all the candidate lists, we analyzed all the results, it's all on the lawyer's website for gender equality and the results are clear. If, by my assessment, we go at this pace to increase the political participation of women at local level, which is about 1% and taking care of the rhythm of local elections, it will take us 20 years to get to 20%. I thank you and ask you to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-01-0.u38029	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Third. Annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2004. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I draw conclusions. That report shall be accepted. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. Score. With 91 votes for, one abstention, I accept the proposed conclusion.
