ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37323	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, the Croatian Government proposes amendments to and additions to the Law on Extra charge for children to which legislation would also be made through this Law, which is marked by P.Z.E. in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on child allowance are aligned with the recommendations of both the Council of Europe and the European Union on the equal rights of children to social protection. Of course, this is in line with our Constitution, which says that all are equal before the law, or before the Constitution. What is most important in these amendments and additions, therefore, these are very short changes and additions of the Law on Extra charge to children, is that according to these amendments, the right to compensation can be obtained by any Croatian citizen who has residence in the Republic of Croatia and any stranger who has an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. So, the most important change is to delete the 3-year limit for Croatian citizens who only 3 years after they had permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia were able to exercise this right so far. With these amendments and additions to the Law on Extra charge for children, of course the number of children and the number of users is expanding. The number of users extends to more than 7 and a half thousand, and the number of children who acquire this right to more than 14 thousand. Of course, in cooperation with other institutions in Croatia, at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, we have done the analysis of the additional resources needed to implement this Act. I mean, this is how the law was amended. Additional costs are about 3 million kunas per month. However, since in the budget for this year we have provided for a billion kunas in child allowances, we assume there will be no additional allocations, i.e. the need for additional funding from the state budget for the implementation of this amended Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to say a few more words with these amendments and additions to the law about other measures to empower the family. This is certainly one of the measures to empower the family. In the past year, we have implemented and implemented several other important measures that can, of course, be classified as the most innovative policy of this government on the proposal of the Ministry of the Family. First of all, we returned the birth benefits to the 2000 level. So, we increased birth benefits from July 1st last year. Then, we returned the possibility of using a 3-year maternity leave for twins’ mothers, three or more children, as a possibility that parents, or family, can naturally benefit from. For the first time, we started with a large project of free textbooks for families with 8 and more children. This project proved to be excellent and of course it continues this year. Then we started with a family computer procurement project with 8 and more children, so, for multi-member families, and we believe that we will be able to expand this project to families with 7 or 6 children. So, a project that goes, I repeat, to strengthen the family and in some ways could be said for increased dignity or if you want to restore family dignity in our society. What I want to especially highlight as a project that, for which I expect and special support, is the procurement of textbooks for blind and undersighted children in the past year. For this project, the Ministry has allocated half a million kunas. Since textbooks for blind and undersighted children are extremely expensive and of course we keep this project a special measure in this entire large family empowerment package. In the past year, we also opened several centers, i.e. counselling centres for children, youth, marriage, and family in several major cities. We also go on with this project, especially to support families in which disabled children live, to support families who face drug horrors and of course support families and single parents, but families with more children. Here, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. I thank you for the support of the board, the constituency committees that discussed this bill. As far as I can see, the law has received unanimous and unanimous support. I thank and believe that this Law in Parliament will also end in such an atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37324	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37325	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Madam Vice President and Minister said, we've begun to restore the family's dignity. Neither individual nor family, nor one government, therefore, is one family where each individual has his own dignity by his very act of birth. Well, no authority can take it away from her. Therefore, we could not take away dignity, nor could you repay it to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37326	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37327	Correction of the incorrect allegations about this project of getting a computer for families with 8 and more children. There's been a break-in. Such a failure was made in Giulovac and then the Croatian party of rights bought a computer and gave it to such a family. ... So go and see, what are you talking about? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37328	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? Legislative, family, youth and sport, European integration? I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Club, a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37329	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children. The law is a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In the Croatian Democratic Community programme, a special place takes up the family as the foundation of society and the social community. A person's role is played by children and helpless persons. We are faced with a demographic crisis, with a white plague, and at the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement a national programme of demographic development, which gives special attention to paying for children as one of the measures that promotes natural growth and gives support to the family in raising children. In view of the unfavourable demographic movements of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, last year 2004, the amendments to the rules of importance for the exercise of the right to maternity leave, and the right to cash compensation, we heard about the return of maternity benefits. Let us remember the amendments to the Labour Act, the maternity leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and the amendment of the Health Insurance Act. The right to maternity leave within the prescribed duration has been established that for all beneficiaries of that right, or the same right to leave, mothers and mothers who are registered at the Croatian Employment Office. Namely, unemployed mothers have the right to a one-year maternity leave, i.e. for the birth of twins, third and every next child to three years of child's life with a refund of 1600 kuna, instead of remembering 6 months or the longest 2 years and compensation of 900 kuna until then. And persons who carry out their own activity are entitled to cash compensation for economic, professional and agricultural leave during the use of maternity leave. In 2005 620 million kunas were provided for this purpose in budgetary positions. The family ministry and intergenerational solidarity therefore thinks about those items. In view of the national programme of demographic development adopted in the Parliament in 1996, the same year was passed the Law on Extra charge for children under which the right to compensation can be achieved by a user who is a Croatian citizen and has an uninterrupted residence in the Republic of Croatia for 6 months. In 2001, a new law on the exercise of the right to compensation introduces a condition of at least three years of uninterrupted residence. New amendments to the Law represent a better solution to child and family protection by ensuring certain social security. The proposed amendments shall be granted to citizens who have not declared their permanent residence for more than three years from the date of submission of the application. The user may be a Croatian citizen who has residence in the Republic of Croatia may be a foreigner with an approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, so they are provided with equal conditions for the achievement of the right to an allowance for children. The number of users will increase by 7585 and another 14 thousand 260 children will be entitled to an allowance. The state budget provides the funds of 129 million 870,000 a month. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra for Children because they are in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees every human and citizen of the Republic of Croatia the rights and freedoms without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37330	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote at 3 p.m., on the debated agenda points, so I ask the MPs and the MPs to make sure they have the keys. Secondly, I would remind all MPs and MPs, but also other state officials, that today the deadline for the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest should be to provide information on the acquisition of assets in sources according to that card that we have all submitted. Therefore, any representative and representative should not be required to form but in accordance with that card which has been lodged, where the property subject to the law is declared to be delivered to the President of the Commission. The sanctions are known for their failure. Let's move on to the debate. SDP club respected representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37331	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law that is before us today is in any case a law that is good because every right that is extended and concerning children is something to be welcomed, but this time I would like to say that a major step in children's and children's allowances were made at the time of the coalition government when the child's allowance was determined as the right of each child, but at that time it was started to comply with the legislation of the European Union, and that was when an asset censor was introduced because we felt that with the limited financial opportunities in the country it was not possible to treat children of those parents who were really rich, and those children and those parents living in very difficult circumstances, therefore, a kind of censorship was introduced. Of course, every censorship for a certain number of people is unfair the moment that for only two kunas somewhere you can't exercise your right because you're subject to a certain census, in any case that census is unfair. In this case, I would like to ask here, this is a question of many citizens who have written to us these days knowing that this law will be in front of us, given the amount of funding that exists on this item, therefore, it is not about any additional means, it is about the funds that exist in the budget, unfortunately large funds are planned unlike the number of children who can receive and have the right to a child's allowance, and we believe that an increase in this censorship should also be considered in order to include a number of children's allowances. We have also been warned by many that we should be careful not to finance a potentially larger number of children from neighbouring countries, so there are no certain abuses of this Law, since our resources should primarily be used to improve and raise children's standards in Croatia. The more we have a very large number of children living on the edge of poverty and living in very difficult conditions, the more we should take care of that. However, we also have to ask ourselves this time why Mrs. Minister did not stop in a year and a half, and she also took care of a population she talked about here with a lot of understanding, with a lot of empathy for their problems, unfortunately empathy stopped the moment she entered the government, and it was about students that we in the coalition government thought were not falling into the category of children and that they needed in a completely different way to enable them to study, so they needed scholarships, favourable loans, and therefore other opportunities to finance their education in studies. The pre-election promise of HDZ and Mrs Jadranka Kosor was that the child's allowance would be returned to the students, unfortunately today in the situation that there was neither a pre-election promise of the child's allowance but unfortunately nothing was done on scholarships nor on loans nor on any other aid from the state for the population. It should also be said that all projects that the former Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare and the State Institute for Family and Youth have been launched have been stopped, so all projects have been stopped except for one part of the implementation of family centres that is going quite slowly and badly. It's stopped, for example. The project of the nanny we consider to have been good, has been stopped by a project of additional service opening and thus helping our families take much easier care of and care for their children. The famous national population policy was also mentioned here, and I must say that we have heard almost two mandates here about how nothing seems to be done in Croatia because the Government of Ivica Racan is a socially insensitive government and government who simply does not care about the population policy of this country and about the birth and our future, and therefore here is the government of HDZ and Mrs Kosor, who brought measures to national population policies somewhere in early 2004, and among them short-term measures say the current measures none of which have been met. Long-term measures to be developed were to be adopted during 2004 and permanent permanent measures were also to be developed during 2004. None of this, as far as short - term measures are concerned, should, therefore, also be of childbearing assistance to births for the newborn child, for example, at the height of the three - month expenses for raising a child, has anything to do with it. Encouragement of companies where births work to help raise newborns has nothing to do with it. One-time cash aid, the construction of a manger, a kindergarten freed from tax obligations on such assets, neither in the Parliament nor in the Government, has been realised. So, from the national population policy unfortunately nothing so far. And finally, with such great care for the children and our families, it is very interesting that we in this home had two initiatives to resolve the issue of not paying child support. It was completely irrelevant to us whether these alimonys would be paid through an alimony fund or by other mechanisms. Namely, we intended only to open this problem in the Croatian Parliament, to point out the problem that children do not have and do not exercise this right to both parents whether they live with or do not care about him and pay him at least financial resources for his life. So, we wanted to open this problem here, point to it, point out the problems of a very numerous population, unfortunately the government did not show itself, so we did not insist on this being a solution that this home apro by and voted in family policy two years ago but we only wanted to open up the problem and hear which solutions and which mechanisms for better and more efficient payment of alimony offered by the Ministry of the Family, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Family offered no solution other than existing legal solutions that do not function accordingly, so they proved completely inefficient in collecting alimony and achieving a fundamental children's right to care for both parents. Here, so much for that, so once again this, this law and the extension of these rights on behalf of the SDP Club will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37332	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37333	Mr. President, my dear colleague, in a whole series of incorrect qualifications and allegations, said the following, quote: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing...", I repeat, "...did nothing for the scholarship and lending of the student population." This is absolutely incorrect! And this qualification, and in the context of others, the rest of the debate, and in fact it doesn't correspond to the truth, so in that sense, I was obliged to correct this incorrect assumption for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37334	The second amendment. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37335	Thank you very much. Inaccurately what the colleague said, here is a colleague who said that this government has done nothing to grant scholarships to students and loans. Just remember that under the Ministry of Science and Education, foreign ministry grants and loans have been granted and the funds are 50% higher than yours in the coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37336	Third correction, distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37337	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Opacic, all this time she was just repeating words, nothing this government did, nothing this government did, and I could do the opposite now if this government had done much, if this government had done it. Because I know personally because I'm involved. And you, if you were willing to work and you were willing to do something then you'd at least do yourself the courtesy of coming to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and that's where you stood up and did something. It's out of humiliation to you and to the board to come and let's do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37338	Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37339	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, especially the family administration, has repeatedly denied public lunches that Milanka Opačić, the representative, presented at the expense of this ministry. We've been sending extensive reports several times, inviting Mrs. Opačić to come to the Ministry and introduce her to all those projects we've done, which we've done. Of course she didn't do it, it's a lot easier to stand up for a pay phone, fire around the ministry, say, say a few notorious not true and then turn around and say it's my word and you gentlemen defend yourself. You spoke to Mrs. Opačić about the national population policy adopted by the Government, it is not true, the government has not yet adopted a national population policy, the working group has worked on it all these months, the working group is at the end of its work but the document has not come to the government, it has not become a document in the right sense of the word because the Croatian government has not discussed it, it has not made a decision, so to quote the allegations that you have obviously received part of the document from someone who worked on it from the working group but to quote these parts here on this speaker, before the Croatian Parliament, before the Croatian public and to say that it has not been achieved, it is ultimately unserreal, I choose the words in truth. So, the national population policy has not yet been adopted. The truth is that we returned what your government took, so we returned the birth benefits from 2000, a three-year leave that you declared retrograde and harmful measures for the Croatian family we returned as a possibility of using. As for everything else, you've taken the opportunity to pay the students, now you're calling me this government too, what we're doing on this and why we haven't returned. In any case, it is not correct, it is not correct to call us, in addition to that, you have said that you have listened to my sermons about what needs to be done to improve, not Mrs. Opačić, it was not your government's two mandates, but one mandate if I can remember at the time of your government and your majority you have also taken benefits, or reduced them and the possibility of using three-year leave and extras for students etc.. As for the alimony fund, we've spent a lot of words on it, my question when you're so committed to the alimony fund why didn't you propose it at the time of your government? Why didn't you bring it and why didn't you implement the Alimentation Fund provisions? I further claim, like all my colleagues at the Ministry, that there are firm mechanisms for protecting a child or a single-parent family only, of course, the rule of law has to do its job. I ask you once again that your target of continuous attacks be not this Ministry without arguments. You speak with arguments, I accept that, but constantly insult both in the end and all the people who work in that ministry, all the people who work in the family administration, all the people who have made a series of projects. I also mentioned free family textbooks with multiple children and computers. You followed the action by saying, "What will computers in families with eight and more children when these families often lack electricity and water?" I don't think comment is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37340	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37341	I don't have time to de-polomize with you, Madam Minister, but it would be nice if you could actually stoically submit a criticism here, not an insult because I didn't say a single insult. I just said my argument why some projects stopped, why didn't you do some things? As far as this national population policy is concerned, you're telling the truth here. I didn't get this from anyone in the task force. Mrs. Kosor this was downloaded from the website, from a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in mid-2004. So it's a document that I found on the web at a session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing. About the child's extra for the students I'm just reminding you of. That was your pre-election promise. You promised and I ask why you didn't do it. If you can't hear the question why didn't you do something, it's really your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37342	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37343	Of a number of incorrect allegations, only one. Mrs. Kosor said they had returned the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave, but she did not say that it did not apply to all mothers. Allow me two sentences from one of the many letters we receive. Ma'am, the mother of four of whom is 15 months younger says: "I can't listen to Mrs. Kosor and her fairy tales about the care and growth of Natalie because the public doesn't know, and my neighbors who know me and know that we have a fourth child, and my husband and I don't say great, you have a thousand-sixth kuna of maternity benefits." When I say, "I don't have any. That is not true." They say, "It is impossible, when Mrs. Kosor says that all mothers with three or more children regardless of the housewife, farmers have the right to maternity leave of three years." It is that they do not have all mothers and this mother has not been registered in the Bureau for 3 years, so please give full information when you give the information because I and many of our colleagues, and I believe in the Ministry, are filled with letters that people have hoped for listening to your words that they all have the right and do not have. Neither does this unemployed mother with four children.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37344	And a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37345	Mr. President, I'm going to correct an incorrect assumption. Ms. Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister when he talks about the problem of paying off child support, she said, literally, that there are firm mechanisms that ensure that all children have the right to means of restraint. I guess she meant children who live with one parent either their mother or their father. Mrs. Kosor has proven that there are no clearly firm mechanisms or there is no way in your government to force people in the competent ministries and centres to do their job. Yes, if there were solid mechanisms, tens of thousands of children today would not be in vain trying to exercise their right to support from one parent who is currently or no longer living with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37346	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37347	Thank you very much. As far as the lady's allegations go, The restrictions, restrictions and quotations of letters, restrictions on mothers who must be registered at the Employment Office, I remind you, MP Lugaric, that you have introduced this restriction. [[Intruder: Madam MPs.]] That you have also personally raised your hand to that restriction because that restriction was introduced at the time of your authority, your majority and we cannot, of course, fix everything that should be fixed in a year. Therefore, I ask you to answer this letter to the lady who spoke to you, which is exactly what you write that the restriction was introduced at the time of the term of the last government and that you believe that this government will correct that injustice. As for Mrs. Sobol's objection to Ms. Sobol, I said that there are mechanisms, I meant the Family Law and the Penal Code and, of course, I said, I believe that you've heard that clearly everyone needs to do their job and all work in accordance with the law. And that's where I agree with you. It is necessary to step up measures that all those who are in particular in this segment do, do their job and do it. And then of course we won't be faced with the fact that most often fathers avoid paying child support, hiding, changing addresses, lying about how much they have, what their incomes are. I totally agree with you. Everyone needs to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37348	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37349	Your Honor, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. The government's representative can't go out for a pay phone again after correcting the allegations. He has to wait until there's at least one more debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37350	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. A representative of the government at any stage during the debate, and the debate is open to take a word, and I am obliged to give him a word. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37351	Madam Minister, the three-year maternity leave has been tied to the Bureau for 3 years. When we abolished the three-year maternity leave, we felt for other reasons that it should be abolished, other measures should be imposed. It's like letting someone drive a car without a wheel. You've restored the opportunity, and you haven't realized, to leave a tool that might be possible for a part of your mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37352	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37353	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. With the announcement of the release into the parliamentary procedure of amendments and the addition of the Law on Children's Compensation or Supplement for Children, I was often asked by parents of not very good property: how much will be the increase or will their children receive in the future because they are now not receiving the allowance? So on their own announcement, the changes of citizens are perceived as an increase in what they are receiving. Unpopular for a politician, but honestly I had to disappoint them and say that the extra will be as much as before, which means an average of 256 kuna 69 lip per month, which is an increase of 60 June compared to 2003. And those who because of the 1330 kuna property censorship per month per household member achieved in the previous year did not have the right to an allowance will not have it in the future. Of course there was no end to disappointment. There was nothing since the strong promises of the 2004 increase, and there will be no future. Even the number of children paid for in 2004 compared to 2003 has not been increased even more, it has been reduced by 24 thousand 627 children. These are the data that the motionor provided in the light of the bill's proposal. I'm saying this because even today, some of the members of the government are listening to stories about the increase and the children and amounts covered. The truth is clearly different. The only thing that is true is that the extra for children is one of the measures that would encourage the natural increase that is so necessary in Croatia. However, the measure prescribed by the 1996 National Development Programme and the 2002 national family policy does not give the expected result because it is insufficient. For an average of 256 kuna per month, no one will decide on the child anymore and while Croatia will continue to record the decline of live births. Of course, not only because of the height of the child's allowance, but mainly because of youth unemployment, because of the insecure and small salaries with which children cannot be properly cared, because of the inability to solve the housing problem, due to lack of kindergartens, etc. etc. The problem is very complex and cannot be solved by partial solutions, and especially not by the way it is before us. Believing that child's allowance is one of the most innovative policy measures and that there is a function of reducing social differences. We representatives at the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party were pleased when the amendments to the 2001 law allowed this right and the children of the unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the children of the peasants. It was the first time in Croatia's recent history that peasant children were even with the children of employees. So it's a completely incomprehensible sentence from an explanation, I quote. This law allows the right to pay for children regardless of the working legal status of parents. It's a finished quote. This is completely incorrect, because this right is still allowed by the 2001 law. What makes this proposal different from the existing one is the removal of the conditions for the exercise of the right contained in the obligation of a three-year permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia prior to the application for the exercise of the right. This amendment now means that the applicant will report residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the same day, at the same time submit a request for a child's allowance, of course and obtain it. We're wondering if we're going to run into cases of 20 or 30 or even 50 children being reported at one address. This certainly does not encourage real natural growth, but only fiction in the minds of some. It is obvious that with the phenomenon of more voters than the number of people, we will have another phenomenon, more children with a child-added allowance than the total number of children born in Croatia in the last 20 years. The proposer says the law is in line with the regulations of the European Union countries. We wouldn't mind if our options were like that, but they're not. The allowance is so low it doesn't achieve the goal it exists. Of course, it is not because of political will, but because the Croatian budget cannot bear it. It is true that the Proposer says that the Law on Child Compensation has all the characteristics of social regulations that the State recognises the right of a child to certain social security. If this is a social category, which it is, then the State has the right to protect it regardless of the practice and regulations of the countries of the European Union. Liaison to the censorship of at least three years of continuous residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia has protected its citizens, and now that protection is being abolished. It is paradoxical that our citizens who have obtained the right to retire in the republics of the former Yugoslavia have been abolished the protective supplement they were entitled to and now live here with 200 to 300 kn per month. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the state must care for them because they are powerless and are not able to work. However, they say there is no money in the government, but they open the door wide to something whose fairness of application will not be controlled. We have no objection to helping Croatian citizens in accordance with the opportunities of the country of origin and in a socially fair way. It remains completely unclear how such children's allowance users will prove that they do not cross the property censorship, probably very easily with the application of the residence will apply to the Employment Office, about it will bring confirmation, bring confirmation that they do not have any property and the child's allowance is there. At the same time, in any other country, such a person may be the owner of a small caricure of aircraft factories, investment properties, shares and shares in capital companies. This property in Croatia is not registered, nor verifiable, so we will have a phenomenon that the family living in the Republic of Croatia has two children, pays the state all taxes including VAT, has a monthly income of €5.350,00 and will not be able to obtain the right to a child's allowance, and the family that applied to their home address, but indeed lives and earn more and more in another country and will certainly pay all taxes there. There's nothing here but social justice in our opinion. From this, it is clear that the child's ultimate objective is not to reduce various social differences, as the applicant stated. What is the objective of the proposed changes can be concluded immediately. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party are in favour of increasing the child's allowance so that the state will indeed and truly, not only declare a child's right to certain social security. Only then, along with other measures, would it be in the role of a innovative policy. As long as this is not the case, it is merely a smoothing of the eyes and a calming of your own conscience, and in Croatia children will be less and less born. Here from this pay phone we are convinced that the introduction of a three-year maternity leave will fill our maternity homes. Instead, we have the anger of younger women who can't find a job because the employer is afraid of their possible maternity leave. We don't live in delusions, we come down from the clouds to the ground, because there's a very cruel life there, and it's very cruel.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37354	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a series of incorrect allegations. A colleague states that this does not encourage natural growth, that there is no goal and so very pessimistic. However, if we have accepted the National Programme of Demographic Development in 96, and we stick to it, existing rights in the family benefits system, assistance for the child's equipment, maternity leave, maternity benefits, allowance for children should be preserved from further reductions and gradually raised in accordance with the possibilities. Therefore, the goal exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37356	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37357	Thank you, Mr. President. My esteemed colleague Caparin hurt the Rules of Procedure for correcting my exact quote. I said the goal exists, but that goal is not achieved because of the lack of this measure. For 256 kuna children's allowance, no one will dare increase the number of children, and the goal should be to give birth to as many children as possible with the other measures and the child's allowance, but this fee must be adequate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37358	My colleague Lalic, you have made one claim that MP Caparin assessed through the institute correcting the incorrect allegations to the incorrect. You report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and claim that your claim is correct. No one can arbitration. The representative has the right to consider any claim to be correct or incorrect but can not, then, by means of an infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure: My claim is correct and it is not exactly what the other representative made in respect of the accuracy of the claim. Then it's a replica and a struggle of opinion. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37359	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Lalić presented a number of incorrect allegations. I will mention one thing that is repeated in the Croatian Parliament, which they could have done in four years. It is not true that 20, 30 and 50 people from, Croats or Croatian citizens who are not resident in the Republic of Croatia were registered at certain addresses. And you tried to do it at the time of the coalition government, so when you were checking in on Makarska, Imotski and Capljina, you saw the Slavonski Brod that it wasn't true. However, whoever receives a child’s allowance and binds it with the place of residence, does not bind it with this law, the Law of Place of residence and residence must also respect him if he will fulfill the bandages of this law. But in your four years of coalition power, you've been harassing people and now you have no chance of doing it like you did before.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37360	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37361	Thank you, Your Honor. The lady pointed out in her presentation one sentence for an average of 250 kunas no one will decide to give birth. That's incorrect. Because married couples don't make children for 250 kunas or maybe 2 and a half thousand kunas. The creation of offspring is both the joy of giving birth and the pleasure of motherhood that is one personal thing. It's one personal attitude, and there's no money to pay for it. But these would only help some of those families who have the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37362	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, Club of HSP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37363	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. First of all, on behalf of the HSP Club, I would ask the representatives of the club and the HDZ and the SDP as well as the Vice-President to stop miscalculating and shooting about this topic because in this way we are just putting these difficult problems on which we are present, meaning the issue of both Croatia's difficult social and demographic position in the closure. Let's turn to what we're here for. The mistakes were both on one side and on the other. It means that part when she was an ex-government. She contributed, she didn't solve these problems effectively and properly, this government promised much in that part, one small part she did, but that's not it. So let's solve the problems in this country, and there's time for bickering. We have now had enough time to engage in pre-election campaigns for local elections. Now let's put that part aside. Let us devote ourselves to what we are and what Croatian citizens and Croatian people expect of us. The fact itself is quite well known to you what a difficult social and demographic situation is in Croatia today. The fact that the average four-member family covers their expenditures with barely 60% of the income sufficiently speaks about the situation. Also, the fact, and the duty of citizens over 60 billion kunas to banks. It is not a duty for luxury but for mere survival, the number of unemployed and just take a variant of the demographic reality of Croatia. We've got the data here, and I'll fill them in on behalf of the club. In December 2001, there were 628 thousand 654 children in Croatia. 2002. 513 thousand 369. 2003. 490 thousand 884. 2004. 466 thousand 545. Now in April 2005, this figure is 412 thousand 341 children. The number of users in April will be 214 thousand 297, but unfortunately until today, these days will be paid a child's allowance means April, and we are already 20 May. So all this data is clearly saying that the situation is more than bad, that it's more than alarming. And so let's talk about it in that part and make a deal. Let's support this as a first step. The truth had to be done before, as many other things had to be solved. And that's the question of students. There is no valid reason why students who are in regular schooling are deprived of the right to a child's allowance. Or let's just be aware of the scholarships in one go in the other part doesn't go. And that's not an appropriate solution. Let's get that part back. We agree to return to the law that students while they are in regular school have that right. It's also an alimony fund issue, an alimony fund issue. Why can't the state finally solve it, because the state can be better legally dealt with by those who don't comply with their obligations, means irresponsible parents. Far away, first of all, let her pay for it to the children and then through the exercise, so she has far better legal means, she also has the State's Attorney's office, she has a far better option as well as how she can be calmed down. Thus, in this case, it would not be a great burden for the state budget if introduced, and mechanisms could be introduced which at any time will be able to pay what the state has paid for the child, meaning to recover by a regressive request to the state budget. It is also necessary here to say that all that is heard here today does not serve anyone the honor. And if we don't take measures to start solving these issues, the situation will be worse for us. And you're also aware of the fact that we have the same number on the voters list and on the population list. You also heard those ridiculous statements by Secretary of State Palaric that the figure is the same because of the fact that the censusors came and knocked on the door and said no one was home, so they were not listed. And that's why that one difference. And now I finally have to say the part that this government, or HDZ, promised to defend. We at the HSP Club called a lot of defenders, this is about Croatian wartime war people from the Homeland War whose former government abolished this right to a child's allowance. It's not even worth the law, it's also back and they're saying, look at the situation. The children of those we fought against will have the right to a child's allowance, we won't have a child's allowance first. Normally Croatia is a social state and in this part should be treated equally. But I'm saying I don't think there's any reason why in this circle we shouldn't involve the Croatian wartime disabled themselves with their children not having that right. They even say there can be a smaller amount and everything. And also, within all of this, you should really think about raising, reducing this censorship about when and under what conditions can the right to a child’s allowance be achieved. So let's start with this law, start solving these problems that are present, and let's not argue any further because this is certainly not what the Croatian people expect of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37364	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37365	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Kovacevic who says this is an impertinent bickering between the SDP Club and the HDZ Club. It's not true, Mr. Kovacevic. It has nothing to do with any of the other clubs, it has to do with our duties as representative, that every minister and Mrs. Kosor ask why she did something or didn't do it. On the other hand, today, a very sensitive category is being reasoned about children’s problems. It has nothing to do with one or the other club, but the ministry's work or dissatisfaction, but also the behaviour of our representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37366	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37367	Thank you very much. Here's how I'd like to warn my co-worker about the bad shooting, and among other things, he says, so these days he's going to be paid for a April child's allowance and we're in May. Well, we don't even get paid for May, but we get it for months...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37368	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37369	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear vice presidents and ministers with their co-worker. The Croatian public could conclude that you have personally appeared here in defense and presentation of this law that it is a very important matter. And we welcome and... this is about one little step that's to say hello. However, it has been marred by the ministry's work or better to say that it is inadmissible or incompetence to a system of resolution, a systematic solution to children's problems, a young family that started with coalition authority. You see the family and you see it exactly from the laws that have been abolished and that have been advanced, from programs that are no longer applied at all, but now it's about dignity as you say to your family and about restoring your family's dignity again. So you've been in opposition before, and now you've put yourself in power as the protector of every man's dignity, so here's the family in the Republic of Croatia now. But speaking of dignity, to absorb it, not to repeat what I told you, that every human being has its own dignity, that's what the Constitution says. And that power has no power to take away nor to restore that dignity, but it can do much harm to a man. But it's not appropriate, one power can be incompetent and it's very quickly seen, it doesn't take four years of office, it's enough years and six months that it's beyond any doubt. But it is not dignified, it is not appropriate for a state official not to tell the truth or to deceive the public. You see the view of the family, so to return how you imagined the dignity of the family where the woman is, because a whole series of things point to just that, the kind of vision of a family that is silent by the hearth, and the husband goes outside, so if he brings something for the family, get it and bring it. And there's a state that will, by some measure, enable and stimulate this poverty, but to show power as a benefactor. First of all, it's not Caritas, it's not the Red Cross, the government has to have a soul, but it needs to solve problems, not cry over the fate of citizens. That's exactly what I'm And here you see during the coalition government the right, the child's allowance, was expanded for something that wasn't enough to happen before. The right to maternity leave to have students so these children also have the right to a child's allowance. But now you see we're opening a big trap because the system isn't solved. So there can be a user under this law every Croatian citizen who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We have recently recently slightly improved this Law on residence and residence, but we have not systematically solved what I admit is very difficult, but please, gentlemen, take care of the residence control. So here's what we can read from this article. So a Croatian citizen who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia can exercise this right and in practice read, who has a residence, registered residence in Makarska. There is no doubt that they live there, or have a registered residence for people who do not live or stay there. And the government has to control it. ... It is not only a question of voting, because the issue is mostly sharpened from election only to election but also is a systemically large problem because it is possible, and it is doubtless possible to pour out large funds and receive benefits under the laws, various giving of people who abuse the law, or which it does not belong to by law, and the consequence is that this right, which is then widely opened to them by this law, cannot be achieved by the users because of the lack of funds. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What do we have in practice? You're also pompous and you boasted about it and it's a good thing that you did, that, one of your promises, you increased your maternity benefits. But what happens in practice, that they are not late. That what the law allows is precisely because of the systematic non-solving of things, and primarily that Mrs Lalić pointed out because of the abolition of the self-employment programme for women, that it does not use women because they do not have the luxury of staying home on maternity leave and that they are using this right. So the rest is the naked right. It's very simple to carry out an analysis of how many women use this right. And finally, why he rejected the SDP's proposal from demarcating maternity benefits so that women who make it, who are successful in their work, who have a salary somewhere that is above that average, why punish them. So for one round of women, maternity leave is still a punishment, and that's exactly what we've been pointing to, but for the crazy one. You mentioned the Penal Code, but you didn't mention it immediately, I don't know if you know, that during the coalition government, a whole series of legal provisions, or a whole series of measures, were incorporated into both the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. What about child abuse and neglect? It's still a taboo topic for this government. You can't trust kids, but here's the big talk, or there's a big concern. And I believe that this truly may care and exist, in some intention, but that there is no knowledge, that there is no ability, it is absolutely, absolutely evident. Recently, I was approached by a woman, and that's what my colleague Lugaric was talking about, so it's not just lonely cases anymore, it's constants. Something the government can no longer deafen itself to. A woman of four, she has, uh, a very young woman, three children, a fourth on the road, where the employer doesn't pay. The state says it's not a problem for her, that she works for a private. What the state does to force you to do is to control the implementation of the law so that employers pay salaries to workers, and to their own wives to mothers who are the most threatened. She occasionally begs, occasionally she tells me 500 kuna every other month, as a cook at a private employer. You see, during the coalition's disbursement, not the right to pay, but the failure to pay the worker was intended as a felony. That's off. We've reinvented the whole story, and the government has repeatedly rejected the proposal. But on the other hand, it allows those who have remained in debt to both the state and the worker to quickly start a new company. And she doesn't care, so she doesn't even care about her assets, let alone whether she's paid a woman's worker. Therefore, women's status is getting dramatically worse and there's something you need to do. Such measures only create an illusion here and there, and as conceived by the inability to control, more funds will be illegally drained than users will be able to achieve on the basis of this set. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37370	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37371	Mr. President, ma'am Opačić has already well-known in her style started this debate, and I quote: "It has been violated by the work of the ministry or incompetence of systematic resolution"...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37372	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, not Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37373	Marinovic, I apologize. Excuse me. "It has been violated by the ministry's work or inability to address the problems of children and families systematically." That's not true, Mrs. Marinovic. This ministry, which is the Ministry of the Family, I stress, is deeply concerned by the whole series of amendments to the Law in which the family is at the centre of attention, solves these problems. This ministry has established a whole series of family counselling centers that solve problems, burning problems on the ground. Secondly, you also said that child abuse and neglect is a taboo topic of this government. If you read the 2004 Ombudsman's report for children, then you will see in that report that this government in cooperation with him is very concerned and solves this burning problem in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37374	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is really a series of incorrect allegations. One thing is, this is the Ministry for a year and six months, so he can do anything. You were, ma'am, four years old, so you didn't do what you were supposed to do, and this ministry has up to four years of time to do what it did. It is incorrect that the Ministry is reluctant, incompetence of the Ministry, etc. Besides, it's abolished some of the laws that are vital. Ma'am, remember what you did. I'm not talking about maternity benefits, but you've abolished it, so it's been six months in place for 12 or 3 years. Instead of a thousand 600, you gave 900 kuna, etc. You're saying that the status of a woman is dramatically getting worse. Yesterday was, I mean, women's day in entrepreneurship. You're attacking the Ministry to shut down self-employment programs for women. You forget what this government and the Ministry of Economy does in that part, and you make fun of your family as a hearth family. I can tell you that as a woman, I am a woman for family and conservative and hearsay, but I am for the progress of this Croatian state. And the family makes up husband, wife and child.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37376	Third correction, respected representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Antičević, unfortunately, I only have two minutes to correct the incorrect allegations, and it would take me 10 minutes. I haven't unfortunately applied for a hearing, but I don't need to answer any lies. But I'll just take out a few if I get there. So I'm going to start, home control. You've had four years of time, you've done what you've done, humiliated people in the border areas of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially towards Makarska. And when you did, HDZ in Makarska with a coalition partner has now won. It is not true that this government promotes the mother in one primitive way, as you say. The hearth is the axis of the family. That's what you need to know. In addition to the hearth, many large Croatian families were created and born. The hearthists, if you will, please know that the hearth children were defending this country. The extended right to a child's allowance from your coalition government is, as far as I know, reduced maternity and maternity benefits. Then, you said...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37378	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37379	One more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37380	No, thank you very much. Take care of yourself. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected MP Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37381	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured because you have allowed the misappropriation of the incorrect allegations to be misused and transfer disinformation to the public, and that is that the Macarian HDZ has won. The Hungarian HDZ did not win, and at least it won because the Macedonian SDP and Croatian SDP tried to bring order to the territory of Makarska in terms of abuses in the use of social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37382	And that should be a violation of the Rules of Procedure that contests one claim?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37384	It's no violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm removing it. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, colleague Antunovic. Fourth, correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37385	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, the incorrect quote of colleague Anticevic is that the government does not solve the problems. Interesting. Your authority has made promises and rights that have not been fulfilled. Let's remember a number of signed collective agreements that are not respected at all. Evidence is a number of lawsuits, so this government has the biggest job to raise billions of dollars that it will take to pay it all back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37386	Dear representative Bozica Šolić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37387	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Anticevic, you said the minister claimed that with these changes, she returned dignity and you claim it is not true. That dignity is actually, that dignity is innate. And I'm correcting you, and I'm saying that dignity is easily compromised, and your coalition authority has threatened when it was in power, the dignity of children with special needs because it has abolished their allowance. And you also hurt the dignity of all those children who are in Caritas today in Brezovica when you created many affairs before the elections. It was your claim, however, that the inspection said everything. This should be asked to endanger easy dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37388	And finally the 6th correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37389	It is an incorrect allegation that this authority has abolished the criminal act of non-payment of salaries to employees. The proven work in the material and criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia as such was never incriminating, and then the colleagues could not even be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37390	Thank you very much. At 10.42, it's time to apply for an individual debate, which we're going to. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37391	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are some laws that at first sight may seem very little either normative or by the effects that users bring, whose adoption or non-administeration speaks very clearly of the state and government's value system which is the principle of the same state. Starting from I believe everyone acceptable that children are the greatest wealth of this world and this country, that the value of the state's view or the power of the state's view in protecting the weakest, then this Law certainly characterises this state and this government as a socially sensitive, democratically formed, moral and normal and government with a special sensitivity for the most sensitive groups of this society. I am afraid that in the debate we have escaped from the problem that I believe everyone is aware of and there have already been speeches on several occasions in this House, which is the problem of the depopulation of the Croatian state, I will remind you only through one excerpt from the journal Demographs issued by the United Nations, which predicts that in about 20 years in Croatia we will have about 300 thousand inhabitants less, almost one county will be extinct. Another problem, not only the depopulation, is that we are becoming almost the oldest country in this part of Europe. Therefore, by not sticking to the legal elements or financial effects of this Law, I will repeat what I said at the introduction, that the adoption of this Act is indeed an obligation for all of us, and through its acceptance we will indeed show this sensitivity to this problem and to children who will be users of the child's allowance, without underestimating what counterpart Anticevic and counterpart Opačić said is a possible abuse, however, I really do not see a law which, unfortunately, can be misused. But the general good that this law brings is far beyond that. Therefore, I believe that the law deserves absolute support from all MPs. I would also like to welcome the government's intention to work in accordance with financial opportunities on projects contained in the national programme of demographic development that was adopted 9 years ago in this House, whose intention here we have heard different definitions of the family, whose intention is to revitalise the family rather than retraditionalisation as indicated, and I believe that by the end of the term, what the Croatian Democratic Community has promised and realised in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37392	Thank you very much. Two notifications, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic called a meeting of the Committee for 12 hours in Hall 133. And the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science Culture Petar Selem, at 14 and 15 o'clock in the hall "Anta Starčević". Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37393	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to see that in this House, fighting is done in the best interests of children's standards, the greater social rights of children, and the better demographic renewals, the only thing I am sorry for is using incorrect data as a weapon. The resolution ministry led by the Vice-President has not had a full year to fulfill his pre-election promises, because as you know last year, as you know last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37394	Your buddy's cell phone's responding. There's someone next to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37395	The Resort Ministry and this government did not have a full year to implement their programmes because, as we know, the first quarter of last year passed in the temporary funding that the previous government had determined. So, of course, that all pre-election promises couldn't be fulfilled in less than a year, but the Resorious Ministry showed a marked constructiveity so I would say even occasional aggression towards social givings, I can say that because I was conditionally told in the opposite camp I ran the economy, so I was afraid every time before the government when I saw Mrs. Kosor with some paper, he said something goes away again in social giving. The result of these moves is that the budget of this government, in expenditures is as much as 53.9% in social contributions, and that is the highest percentage for social contributions in the history of the Croatian budgets over the past 15 years and I think it is to congratulate. So much for objective indicators. As for this law that is before us, the Ministry also shows one sensitivity to the issue of demographic renewal but also sensitivity to the social issues of children, because they have been corrected and I am sorry that no one has spoken here, so I will say a few words, and also sensitivity to those children who are mentally or physically unable to follow their friends and colleagues in the class, and so far they have often lost their right to a child's allowance. These may be small steps, however, when all that is envisaged in this law and here we are proposed, it is then a step in correcting the injustices that existed to children and, of course, their parents. The children's allowance is certainly I would say one of the links in a series of chains of demographic restoration, not the most important and not always the most successful but certainly the most social and humane. And that is why it needs to be constantly corrected and constantly improved as this proposal makes it seem. What we need to worry about is that the number of users is considered parents, or others who care for children, and the number of children has been reduced by 20% over the past 4 years, but the rights are not reduced but unfortunately the number of children. When the number of users is reduced then we must all be concerned and not try to politicise this problem, because it is not correct for these children or for the demographic policy of the government or the nation. Here I would say four wrongs so far, no matter who's to blame for them, and that is the least important, important to correct. First, it has been impossible since 2001 that children with, that children of parents living in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens cannot have, the mobile is off, the fixed line is only working, that children have to wait three years to get the right, children of Croatian citizens to get the right to a child's allowance, which is absolutely unfair to them because narrowing the rights and we brought in 1996 a national programme of demographic development in which it is clearly said that the rights should not be narrowed, but that they must be increased in accordance with the financial and other opportunities of society. The previous government in its national, family, document called national family policy also brought the same. The second thing that's been corrected, it's an injustice to children with disorder in psychophysical development, and that's what nobody here has been well-intentioned about. The article 10 determines the age of a child’s allowance, therefore, for children in primary and secondary schools. It is the 15th, or 19th year of life, or class that ends that year. However, the exception of this is children with psychophysical developmental disorders who cannot regularly enroll in the following classes, so they will have more years of this restriction and lose the right to a child's allowance. The exception was the rule of social rights and here it is now extended as an exception to other regulations that allow such children to extend the right to a child's allowance, as their psychophysical right is determined and their right to enrol is delayed, but this does not delay the right to a child's allowance. The third injustice here was corrected by injustice against children with serious health problems, who could have extended the right to a child's allowance up to 27 years of life, but the regulations under which it was determined were only constraints from social areas. Here they are extended to other regulations such as regulations of sublegal acts and the Labour Act and some others, therefore, and such children with severe health damage will now be able to benefit in a much wider, much wider right of child's allowance up to 27 years of life. And finally four, and these are foreign citizens with the right to stay in the Republic of Croatia with a residence that has been discriminated against by Croatian citizens who have been corrected and what the Vice-President pointed out, is in line with the European Union but is in line with the Croatian Constitution, which says in its third article that the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia are exactly the equality of all citizens. Here were a few words about children in Makarska, I think it is a politicisation of the problem that exists, which is that children of Croatian citizens who have residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina are temporarily or permanently applying for a child's allowance in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know why some children in Makarska are less expensive than children in Zagreb, children in Makarska are in my heart the same as children in Makarska, and social sensitivity and demographic sensitivity here must not be intertwined with the various politicizations of this problem. In conclusion, I would say, with all these elements that I've listed that the whole law may be a small step for the resolution ministry, but it's a big step for every child who gets a child's allowance from tomorrow on, and today it didn't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37396	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37397	I'm correcting a few incorrect allegations even though the whole intonation of a respected colleague went in the direction of affirming something that is not in this law at all, so I wondered at one point if we were actually talking about the same matter. So, this story with the blasphemy of correcting godly injustices when it comes to children with disorder in psychophysical development doesn't stand at all, it's not a matter that is even regulated by this law because it's regulated in some other laws. Also, the finding that this government is more social by the share of social costs than any other one so far does not stand. It's simply because that information then distorts the fact and cloudes the fact that it's actually less isolated for certain social rights than it was before. So the very reasoning of the law shows that the funds when it comes to this particular social law are reduced year by year, two and a half billion in 2001 we came to a billion and a half. And that's the measure of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37398	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Replica's esteemed representative Mato Churchvenac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37399	Mr. Hebrang stresses that the government has not acted effectively or for a full year, the government is often also hearing similar intensities, it is true that in the first part of its mandate, I can even accept that until now there was not enough time to change but it is not possible to accept that there is no idea of policy, plan, strategy here today, the Minister insists that the Government has not adopted a population strategy, clearly it is not, then would not object to reducing VAT to children's needs but cannot bring population strategy when there is no economic strategy led by Mr. Hebrang. And now he's, uh, he's been replaced by an assistant who was supposed to do it. See what Croatian interests are, how to run a population policy, we do not know what our interests are, how we will defend them in Europe, our proposals to reduce VAT to children's needs have been rejected with the government's explanation that direction 6. The European Union is opposed to this. So this European Union, gentlemen, rejects us, as we follow a union that does not yet accept us. On the other hand, the respected member of this European Union lays crowns under Chetnik monuments, which we follow, which is our policy, where our brains are in all this, and that should have been clear so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37400	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37401	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vidovic obviously does not know the legal issue that has been corrected here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37402	Replica is a colleague of Hebrang's on a colleague of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37403	And this can't, well, for Mr. Church then, the government has the economic policy of the one with which she won the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37404	Replica is a respected representative of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37405	Here, I would like to replicate to a respected colleague Hebrang, namely, not only him, but on many occasions, Makarska was mentioned here today, and hebrang also said, the case of Makarska is also intended to be politicized by the children of Makarska. My colleague Hebrang, it's not about politicizing at all, it's about facts, according to what is said and when there are facts that we have more citizens in Makarska than we have in the list of voters, and not a few, but about 700, then it's facts that say that something in everything is not right. The fact is that people living in Makarska, or people who do not live in Makarska, have been reported. It's not just a problem with Makarska. This is also the problem with Vrgorca and other border posts because, in part, people are applying for rights such as maternity leave, such as the right to child's allowance, in Croatia. There is one joke from colleagues in Vrgorec that every house has a home, every household has a housekeeper. These are therefore facts and this is not politicisation and this should be taken into account to ensure mechanisms, to avoid abuse of rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37406	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This law has four essential characteristics. One, he's wearing a P.Z.E. tag. And bear it with justice. It is governed by law because this law, it complies with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the European Union on the equal rights of children to social security and equality of citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia or with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and their Member States and the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on child allowance are part of the commitments made to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. That's exactly right. We're extending that right to strangers. No one's got anything on it. We all support it here. It's a little surprising when he's already wearing the P.Z.E. tag. Why isn't he going through an emergency procedure? It's a 12 - article bill. That makes 3 or 4 exactly the same. He could have voted in an emergency procedure and we could have adopted him on Friday. At 3:00 today, we could adopt him. Some other laws that bear the label P.Z., as a general rule, all go according to emergency procedure. It seems to me that's the way it is in our Rules of Procedure. Here we are yesterday, the day before yesterday we discussed the Telecommunications Act, which has 77 articles. We asked for an emergency procedure to be removed. It's not accepted because it has a P.Z.E. code. So I'm wondering now if these little bigger laws like the one about telecommunications that obviously wants to cloud the situation a little bit, and then they can't go into two readings so that it doesn't come out exactly, but they have to go through an emergency procedure because they've got the P.Z.E. tag on them, and these 12 articles don't go. They're not going through an emergency procedure. They're being pulled into two readings. I'm surprised. I'm surprised, and I think whoever wants those rights to be given to those citizens as soon as possible should be busy so we can vote today at 3:00. Since it hasn't been offered, how many and a half years since the takeover of power? And it could have been prepared by this law, so it's seven days' work for your worthy helpers. 2., the second characteristic of this law is the abolition of the obligation of an unforeseeable three-year-old, not... the obligation of an uninterrupted three-year residence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the keyword in this formulation? It's uninterrupted. It's a permanent residence. Is this place going to last three years? Maybe someone thinks it's too strict a commitment. Okay. Let's cut it down to a year. Let's cut it down to six months. But let's not end the obligation of an uninterrupted residence. Why? That's why, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you're opening up a space of manipulation. Not only do you open it. You call for such manipulation. It's very simple. Any citizen of the Republic of Croatia who does not reside, does not really reside in the Republic of Croatia will come, will report his residence. It's very simple. And it will begin to realize the second day of this right. And is he really here, who's gonna pay for it? Tax bonds of this country. That there's a reciprocal provision so that we can go to Bosnia and Herzegovina and report there and get a child's allowance, come on. In doing so, there is no control over whether such a right is already being exercised in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Or any other country? Is he making it happen yet? Or they'll do it twice here and they won't actually live here at all. So think about this when you go into two readings, perhaps that's why we should discuss these things too. Think about it. Turn it down. It doesn't have to be three years. Why would it have to be? But don't break that obligation. No, you'll damage the interests, the financial interests of this country, and you'll open up a field of manipulation. It is enough that this field of manipulation already exists in electoral legislation. It's wide open. We don't need more in these special laws. That's where he needs to be taken down, not here to open it. The third characteristic of this law is that, this law is one testimony of credibility. Look when the existing law was passed in 2001, then the Croatian Democratic Community, you personally strongly advocated that children's allowance rights be paid by students. It was a waste of our time at the time to claim that the student was becoming 18 or 19 years old. That when she was 18, she stopped being a child. That the law is called the Law of Extra charge on children. That the student isn't a child. It's a waste of It's a waste of You claimed that we do not care about demographic policy, that we are not socially sensitive and that this right should certainly be extended to students. I'm asking you now why you didn't do it? Why didn't you just do it here? I'd still be against it today. But I'd be consistent. I'd be consistent with my opposition to that. But I'm surprised why you're not consistent when you're already up for it then and in an election campaign? And that's not here right now. 4. the essential characteristics and claims of the analysis followed by this law, which are incorrect, which is that it will contribute to population policy and make life easier for families with multiple children. He won't. He won't. It would help something else. What we're proposing, which is the elimination of VAT on children's supplies. We calculated how much more money each family with three and four children would have in the home budget. How much more of those shoes could buy, how much more baby food. No more toys. That would help families. And not that this right now spreads a little bit to strangers, so there will still be 7,000 foreign users, children. All right, you should. No one's against it, but it won't make it any easier for parents with more children, but not at all. Not a bit. So this claim that this, that this is some sort of terribly important population law, is incorrect. Will you act populationally, populationally strongly, really help these families, accept this idea of ours. You, as Government, suggest abolishing VAT on children's supplies, let's vote it out and help these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37408	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37409	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ministers and Vice-Presidents of the Government, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here I support the adoption of this law, amendments and additions to the Law on Extra charge on children, because it still ensures equal children's rights to economic and social security. And we have assured our Constitution that we have equal rights and that we will take special care of the protection of the family, especially children and powerless persons. We have seen that this law corrects some injustices that referred to children with special needs, as well as children with health problems. I would also like to remind you that since 96, the Croatian Parliament has adopted a National Programme of Demographic Development, in which attention is also paid to child support as one of the measures to improve the natural growth and support of families in raising children, and on many occasions we know what natural growth is like for us, not to say the death of the people. Of course this isn't the only measure, it's not even a measure enough. There's been a huge controversy here that I see about this government and this ministry doing nothing and that this is like a measure proposed as a rescue. This means only one of the measures and it's not enough, but I would remind you of everything that has been corrected during the former government, all those popular measures that have been taken, so it's a return to the meaning of maternity leave, but we still need to stress what was a significant measure, the return of a three-year maternity leave. Here, a colleague said that it brings a woman back to the hearth and waits for her husband to bring something home that I think offends her wife's dignity. A woman doesn't squat on the hearth, but she can certainly guard the hearth. It is also said that we cannot give authority dignity, but it can help and protect the dignity of a person and certainly all these laws go in that direction. It is certainly one of the measures to improve natural growth that a number of other measures are under way in economic terms such as economic development, employment, kindergartens. All this helps safely for natural growth, but I'm saying here we're discussing one of these measures. One of the measures is certainly the equipment of newborns. We see that our units of local self-government are increasingly using this measure and helping and supporting the newborn, which is certainly very good. I'd come back here too, and here's my attention to it, to the benefits, to the maternity benefits of unemployed future mothers or mothers. In fact, for the time being, they can make that compensation if they were registered at the Employment Service for 12 months and it would indeed be a useful measure and one shift if that obstacle were removed from the time limit. When we talk about this amendment, the concrete amendment to the law, then I would say that in the 99th year, the National Demographic Development Programme adopted the Law on Extra charge to children who predicted that this condition would be a permanent residence for 6 months. The law has been amended on several occasions, and since 2001 it has been a condition of three years, which is what these amendments and additions mean. Certainly I can share that concern here so there won't be abuse, but I expect there won't be any, there are other mechanisms that need to be resolved. But that this law, in addition to being in line with the law on, with the guidelines of the European Union and the gains of the Council of Europe, also satisfies our constitutional categories to provide one meaning, social security and equality of citizens, and we see that in the budget for this year, unfortunately, because the number of users is decreasing, and it decreases because we have fewer children, and it may also be that personal incomes have increased, so certain categories have not met the conditions. But it's certainly a sign, so if we look at this one table, it means that the number of users was 245 thousand 279, and in 2002 it was 269 thousand 279, while here this average number of children is approximately equal. But what's also smaller. But what I was going to say is, that's to see that still the average number of children per user under two children, one eighty-eight, and that's what's worrying, is that we should actually stimulate the birth of both the first and the second and every further child, and that's certainly related to the economic possibility of the country. Here is the proposal to abolish VAT on children's supplies. So I think anyone reasonable who wouldn't accept such a good idea, but the only question is whether it's being implemented and why such smart proposals didn't come before when the promoters could actually make them real. It's all a question we need to answer here. And once again, I would like to remind myself that this is one of the measures that gives equal legality to your children's social security and I think that we must in principle all support and we can support that certainly abuses as well as everywhere should be prevented and sanctioned and that in fact this one measure, as a colleague said, cannot be filled with maternity care. We didn't expect that, but it could help in that direction anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37410	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37411	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this little law for almost 2 hours now, and much has been said and my motivation to report for this debate is to talk about only one problem, encouraged and many of the things that have been said here and the debate that took place here in the Croatian Parliament and in September and October 2001, as well as throughout the campaign. Simply motivated by the desire to solve a rather large problem. There are questions about students, i.e. student standard issues. I would like to repeat once again that I, as well as the SDP, considered it to be a good measure for students in 2001 when we discussed the abolition of child benefit for students, because for students as adults it is in some way humiliating that their social status is improved by child support because they are not children, but that this issue should be resolved between the other and scholarships and special student loans, etc. Such a stance despite opposition was supported by HDZ representatives. Here is, for example, a quote from Mrs. Kosor when she spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club on 19.10.2001. I'm quoting. "I admit that it is somewhat strange for students to receive an allowance while studying, but the fact is that there is no compensation for it." In short, it is said that a system of scholarships should be developed and, among other things, Mrs Kosor, on behalf of the HDZ Club, notes that the right to higher education will only be able to achieve richer, or children from richer families, and unfortunately not. In any case, a pledge that I'm signing completely. But what happened? This year, for the first time since scholarships have been granted in the Republic of Croatia, the number of students receiving scholarships has been reduced. In the notice of the Official Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, I quote "The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is aware that a certain part of students because of limited opportunities did not exercise the right to scholarships. This is a very interesting justification given that these limited opportunities came when the budget was still held in 2004 and in the 2005 budget reduced the budget item for scholarships and also rejected all the parliamentary amendments to return the item to at least 2003 levels. At that time, we also received a public promise from Minister Primorac that not only would there not be a reduction in the number of scholarships users, but that the number of scholarship beneficiaries would increase. I, as Mrs. Kosor, as not now as Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, but as Minister, or Vice-President of the Government in charge of Social Activities, ask you to coordinate the work of your ministry with the work of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because on my representative question here the other day, Minister Primorac answers the very subject of having as much scholarships as they have because the amount of grants has been reduced, but I quote, however, "The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity of the Family Administration is leading the above mentioned topic, and the proposals for amendments to the Law on Extra for Children are prepared." The end of the quote. I am Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State and I must admit that I am quite confused as are the number of students who have received this response because Minister Primorac says this will be settled in the Law on child allowance. That law is now under discussion. There are no students in that law. So I'm simply asking you to solve this problem. I think he should be resolved by the question of scholarships, but I'm asking you to coordinate with the Minister of the Sea and sort of solve that problem. Because I repeat, for the first time since scholarships have been granted in the Republic of Croatia this year, a smaller number of state scholarships have been awarded. I think we understand each other quite well and it is not good to abuse and break first across the back of the students, and I ask you to either keep your pre-election promise or agree with Minister Primorec to do something about the scholarship because I repeat, for the first time we have reduced the amount for scholarships to students and this already lasts the second year continuously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37412	Thank you. Dear representative Nevanka Majdenic. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Goradana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37413	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Somewhere last year, I can't say exactly what month, during one of your first proposals and amendments and additions to the laws that were related to the extension or the possibility of using maternity leave up to 3 years from this pay phone, Mrs. Vice President, you said, among other things, that in that vision, the population demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia is a model of Sweden. Madam Vice-President Sweden is of course a country that is much, much more developed than Croatia. Sweden is a country where, regardless of its development, we know that a lot of problems with precisely demographic recovery have developed countries, or developed countries. So this and such Sweden have succeeded in achieving, unlike many other countries, a positive growth in the population. However, unlike what has been trying to do in the last year and a half in Croatia, Sweden is the country that first recognized that there are more family types today. It's not just the family where father, mother, one, two or more children live together. Most families who live without one parent, therefore, have one parent’s family, have families that live successfully outside marriages. Sweden, therefore, does not belong to one group, let us call them conditionally the traditional concept of family as particularly sensitive and vulnerable groups of society. And they tried to make life and work so much easier for different measures. First, to equalize them in all rights with families that both have fathers and moms and children and secondly, she also went with additional rights. Sweden as a state where I don't think anyone thinks that they don't respect the laws and judgments, I also remind them there's also a special fund for child restraint, a special fund from which if a parent who is a abstention and doesn't live with a child gets into a situation, and it's possible that he can't pay for the maintenance funds then the state jumps in with his trust fund. So in one such state, the child support fund also exists. The national family policy that was adopted during the coalition government, which, as far as I know by consensus, all parties in this House have raised their hand amongst other things, provided for a number of different measures of the programme, and provided that I am not mistaken and the Child Support Fund. And as far as I'm aware, in today's abolished National Institute for Family, Motherhood and Youth, there were prepared measures, strategies, programmes, and prepared laws. Where did they end up? Why didn't they start having fun? That's what I think maybe you should ask those who took over the work of the State Department. There was everything. Somewhere in someone's drawer is clearly still standing today. Madam Vice President, last year you refused to form a child support fund. I'll remind you. Because as Government then, you felt it necessary to point out that you have prepared your proposal for a Law on the Fund for Temporary Child Support, which will soon be referred to the parliamentary procedure, and will soon propose appropriate amendments and additions to the Family Law and all for the purpose of legal and material empowerment of existing institutes in this area. Madam Vice President, these are the words of the government's opinion of April of last year. It's been over a year ever since. I remind all of us what happened in the meantime. It happened that this bill was never sent. It happened that 20 million kunas that you predicted in last year's budget were untraceable and we never got an answer where in fact these funds were redeployed or spent on something else. And lastly, on two occasions last year, you extended the provisions on the establishment of family courts at the request of the Ministry of Justice. I'm sorry, you're the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of these portfolios. I'm speaking to you right now as Deputy Prime Minister. Furthermore, we all love to talk about the population policy about the difficult demographic picture of Croatia and about the bad perspectives in this area and, of course, we always mention only child allowances, mention maternity leave and the like, mention families with more, three, four and more children. So I remind you, or all of us together, that in Croatia today, women have an average of 1.2 children. And I'm now asking a question as to what as a state, as as a government you're doing to encourage families, to encourage women to decide on another child. Well, in Croatia, then, there's another child's problem. In Croatia, it is not a problem whether the family will have four, five or eight children. In doing so, when individual proposals come at the moment from opposition parties, you regularly reject these proposals. Well, speaking of computers for every family with eight and more children, I personally support it. I think that's very good. But at the same time, the government refuses, if I'm not mistaken, exactly the proposal that came from the SDP to abolish VAT on buying information equipment for all children, not for all families, not just those who have eight and more children. Not to say that you refused, it is already mentioned the abolition of VAT or the introduction of a zero rate for children's supplies, etc., etc. We were also together yesterday for the World Entrepreneurship Day event. I am already on several occasions, and I will repeat this again from this pay phone, I said that the Croatian woman, because when we talk about the Croatian family, when we talk about the family in general, then we cannot pass the data and figures relating to the position of the woman in Croatia. The Croatian woman or women in Croatia today have absolutely nothing to do with the fact that most of us and in this Chamber will declare our rights to her that we are all going to stand out together, and that we are also jeopardizing over the unmistakable black numbers when we talk about unemployment, about the share of women in the total number of unemployed, when we talk about how easily women get fired, how hard they get jobs, about how actually there are visible pay gaps among women. Of all these women in Croatia, and therefore families in which these women live have absolutely nothing. I dare say again, Croatia today has no clear policy according to how it sees a woman in Croatian society. Or maybe there is, but I'm afraid that picture that the current government wants to create about a woman isn't what's best for a woman. And I'm gonna get this over with. A few months ago, less than two months ago, there was a triple homicide in Petrinja. A few days ago, there was an attempted murder in Osijek. These two cases have something in common, in one case and another, it was an attempted murder in the divorce. In one case and another, it was about violent husbands. But what happens after that, and the fathers do. What happens after that? After that, all the attention of the public, which I, of course, support in part, we focus on the problem of how much too liberal the law may be about granting permits for weapons or in the case of petrinian, and whether defenders who suffer from PTSD have the right to carry weapons. No one at that time, except in one or two cases when journalists, or experts, reportedly spoke of classical violence against women in this case. At a time when women said no, we don't want to suffer any more violence, I want to get out of a family like that that is insecure and insecure to me. The problem is that in one part of Croatia, re-returning is actually an attack on women's fundamental human rights, government in Croatia, but neither did you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37414	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I must, of course, report only to this part of Ms. Sobol's presentation that when she spoke of violence against women and, of course, completely incorrectly, you're incorrectly saying that the government and the government didn't talk about violence. This government has reminded you, in February of last year brought a special programme against violence against children and children. This government, in cooperation with all NGOs, in cooperation with the lawyers for gender equality and for children, has also made a strategy to combat domestic violence in the House, in cooperation with lawyers for gender equality and for children. However, based on the previous document that I mentioned, because we have also developed a special protocol that prescribes what, who, at what point must do when violence occurs. Although for the first time since last year in Croatia, we also have a national Day for Combating Violence against Women, it is September 22nd. At the proposal of the Croatian government, the Croatian Parliament unanimously accepted this. I can't believe you forgot that. The proposal did not come from the last government, this proposal came from this government which is highly sensitive to violence against women, domestic violence, violence against children and children, and this is exactly what the government has adopted once again, several excellent documents that go towards our common forces fighting violence against women. The bloody event in Petrinja was a cause and that's what I was talking about yesterday and there you're right, it was also a cause for changes and additions to the Arms Act. We have decided on a new law which I will believe in in a few days will be before the government, a restrictive law which, of course, goes against the bully, against the violence that this government in every way publicly condemns, is personally done by the Prime Minister himself on several occasions. Sanader. So I absolutely reject your assessment that this Croatian government is not responding to violence. It reacts quite well and has done in this sense far more than it has done in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37416	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37417	Well, of course I'm going to say that I can't agree with you, or I'm correcting that what you said is incorrect, first because of that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37418	What's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37419	Now, it's incorrect that you've manifested yourself about violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37421	No, I don't. No, you've rerouted immediately, you've rerouted all your reactions to weapons, weapons issues and defense issues. I made it very clear that I supported it, but you missed out, I'm sorry I felt that I read very well everything that was said in public at the time. As for the strategy to fight domestic violence. The national policy on gender equality provides for a strategy to fight, including a strategy to fight violence against women, and you have avoided a strategy to fight violence against women. I think you and I understand each other because violence against women is one thing, and violence against children is something else, and we can't pimp it out the same way. And as for the strategy you adopted last year, you brought it in after the budget was adopted...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37422	Thank you very much. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37423	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here we have one new rule of conduct that the ministers, or even the Deputy Prime Minister, answer the MP by turning his back and going to the scene. It's something you can't see, ma'am. When you told a lie that this government did more to prevent violence against women in the family than it did before, it means that you have no idea what the government did. Have you ever heard of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence? Have you ever heard of a measure that is historic in these places, that for the first time a bouncer, or bully, must be kicked out of the family? Do you remember that we changed the Penal Code, that violent behavior was introduced in the family? If the coalition government had talked about this problem for the first time, and for you until then, it was only later that you joined the problem verbally, but we were the ones who missed national pride when we talked about it. So we were from your party accused when we talked about this problem. Therefore, compare only that legislative part without speaking to an executive who is unfortunately in many ways, in many ways stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37424	Dear colleagues, I give you a warning because you have not used the correction of an incorrect quote but have used it to insult the Deputy Prime Minister. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please. Before that, I apologize, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize, I will not abuse your time. But since Madam Representative Ingrid Marinović-Anticevic said, therefore, that is to say here in the Parliament that I am lying and that I have no idea I have to react to it. I'm not lying, ma'am, all I'm saying behind the pay phone is the truth. This government has proposed to the Parliament on September 22nd as the National Day for Combating Violence Against Women, on my proposal. The Parliament has accepted that. This government also adopted a strategy and protocol that I spoke about and a programme to combat violence among children. In addition, this Government concluded on the basis of an analysis of the Law against Violence that you mentioned in cooperation with all relevant bodies that the Law should be amended because it is in some parts inconclusive. That's what the courts warn, and that's what the lawyers warn us about, and we're gonna do it. And as for my participation in amendments to legislation and legislation in the fight against violence against women, I will remind you, since you remind me, just one detail. That I initiated amendments to the Penal Code in that section of the marriage rape, a few years ago and that I accepted the proposal. So please, when you talk about a reminder of what we did in time, don't forget what others did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37426	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37427	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. We, here today, have opened a debate here on a law that extends the rights to a number of children, and almost everyone has said that every right that a child will achieve is something that needs to be welcomed. But also many here before me have warned of something that the citizens in their letters that you received as a minister, but so have we as parliamentary representatives. And that is on a number of irregularities, that is, the possibility that this Law is being misused somewhere. And so, for example, a citizen who wrote to you writes about how people from Bosnia and Herzegovina are without a problem exercising the right to an extra amount of 299 kuna and 30 limes because they do not work in Croatia, have no property, and in another state no one can control their property. I would just like to say here that the state of Croatia has limited resources and I think that in this country where we simply miss children, someone here has said that our budget funds are large for children's allowance. In part, however, those funds remained neutral because we have too few children. Therefore, I think that we should give these children in Croatia as much as possible, and therefore again here I mention and raise the censorship that allows, therefore, to increase the amount of child's allowance. But also to find all the mechanisms to stop any spilling of funds from Croatia and to keep the funds in our country for our children. And in the end, to get to those kids who need the resources and the most. There was also much mentioned here that the Ministry had done, and it was said that counselling centres were formed that solve problems on the ground. Unfortunately, in the field, it is such that mental health experts are missing, that our centers are being re-tracted, that the centres are dealing with certain things that they shouldn't be dealing with, but unfortunately that's how it is in their system, so they have to do it. So these centers are overloaded and don't do what they're supposed to do. So they don't have enough employees, and that's why we have what fellow Sobol was talking about. We have murders, we have a lot of problems, we have children who will do well because they have no psychological help for a number of years to be quite certainly subscribers to some penitentiary in Croatia. Those problems I was just talking about are not being solved, Madam Minister, on the National Day of Combating Violence. It is symbolic, it may at some point be nice, however, it does not solve the problem of our citizens. It does not solve the problem of domestic violence, and as far as the Anti-Violence Strategy is concerned, it has been brought but unfortunately there is no money in the Croatian budget. There's no money and it won't come true. So all that's left is a dead letter on paper. We'll talk about how many counselling sites we've opened, how many citizens we're at our service to talk about when we get ahead of ourselves and this lawyer's report, both of us. So, both gender equality and children, then we'll talk a little bit about what our system is and how much who's doing their job. But also, I would now, for example, say here and how, for example, the Ministry is doing its job and how much it is at the service of people. Many here have mentioned maternity benefits, the problem of applying to the Employment Service. So here is a woman, even under her name, who announced to the Croatian public that she was treated by the Ministry when she came to the Ministry and asked for legal assistance, how she could exercise her right to maternity leave. Because she faced the problem, therefore, that she was not registered at the Croatian Employment Service. Then, she says, she got from the attorney and employee of the Ministry the following instructions, I'll quote her, "You have a third child and you'll know what to do." There, so much about how we have counselling centers that help people, our citizens who certainly cannot read the laws, the national newspapers, and who often come into a system that does not help them. And those individuals who have enough energy, knowledge and strength then push the whole system in front of them. And the system is there to help them and to serve them. Unfortunately, this assistance to social care centres was also meant to be in the form of the establishment of courts, family courts, or departments in our courts. Unfortunately, from this ministry, Ms. Kosor has been delayed until 2006 and the whole problem, therefore, is being extended to 2006. And I'm not sure it's going to go too far for the next one, maybe a year or two, because it's obvious that there's nothing going on in that part. So the reform in the judiciary has been stopped. So I don't see these family departments in the courts forming, and that's the only time that the centers are scattered and they start to deal with the more quality problems we've heard about here. So, people who don't know how to divorce decently, they divorce themselves with guns and bullets, and it's not a problem in a weapon whether it's available or not, whether it's legal or not. It is simply a problem that some problems were to be detected and that these were to be handled in a more systematic way. We also talked here about child rights to alimony, the Alimentation Fund. I'd just like to say, no matter what you've said to me here. You also know that the Committee on the Rights of Children at the Council of Europe in its guidelines, or in one document about half a year ago, said that you needed to find solutions that would temporarily help children until you found a way, until the alimony funds were paid. So here's what they're warning you, so it's not just me who's telling lies, it's not true. It is obvious that the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the Council of Europe is also the one who brings out unargumented things, lies and lies against your Ministry and against you. And once again, therefore, a child's allowance for the students you've advocated, you've advocated an election campaign. You promised it to the students, you didn't do it, and that's something I'm simply asking you, which is why, therefore, you didn't provide a child's allowance for the students when it was already your pre-election promise. And certainly, one number of people gave a vote for you. And in the end, I can't not mention how big your social sensitivity is. In fact, at a time when the minister of labour and social care was Davorko Vidovic, a decision was made to ensure 13 children who left their homes for carefree children, who managed to enroll in colleges a permanent scholarship, until the end of their education. Your social sensitivity was such that you in the government decided to remove them from the welfare system and move them to a competition at the Ministry of Science. Indeed, if you think that children without a family, without a roof over their heads, have the same chances and have to go on the same terms as students living in their families, it is indeed a difficult lack of social sensitivity. And in the end, what I think is a very big problem is that, Madam Minister, there is a big difference between attitudes when you were MPs and your views now that you're the prime minister and vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37428	Thank you very much, dear fellow Opaci. We move on to correcting incorrect allegations is the first in line for a respected colleague, Bagarić, please welcome Ivana.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Opačić, in connection with children from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I assure you that children from Bosnia and Herzegovina do not use anything that does not belong to them as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, as a member of the government, i.e. as a supporter of the government, you should have prevented the events of your own unwanted children, such as the increase in the deficit of the state budget, Lenca and similar, so today the register, the Treasury of Croatia, would be much richer for all Croatian children, no matter where they come from, and if you are in favour of demographics, then you should not be disturbed by Croatian children no matter where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37430	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37431	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague Opačić said a lot of incorrect allegations about social sensitivity. Namely, all these problems existed during the government while the SDP was and all these problems are present and today, therefore nothing has improved, and the problems have not since yesterday, there are 6 and 7 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37432	You want to correct the quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37433	And I'm also suggesting one piece.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37434	Do not suggest but correct the quote of your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37435	...maybe Monday you'll be...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37436	My colleague Kovacevic, please correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37437	Since you didn't hear me, it's an incorrect allegation that you SDP are socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37438	Correction of the incorrect quote, respected colleague Roksandić, has your pick. Come on, fellow Kovacevic, you're making a suggestion instead of correcting an incorrect quote. Don't say that. Well, you abuse a pay phone, it doesn't make sense. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Opačić stated: "The mental health experts on the ground are missing, social care centres are overworked, there are not enough people, nothing is done". The Ministry of Health and Social Care has just hired about 200 new people in social care centres in the Republic of Croatia who are working on this issue in a year and a half, according to their data. Well, it's not true that nothing is done, but you can't do something for a year and a half that has to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37440	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate, and it is up to the esteemed colleague Vidovic to elect a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37441	Here's a respected colleague and colleague, let me look back on a few words of the proposed law that I'm looking at with two or three aspects and I'm trying to comment. First, what the law says, second, is whether or not the solutions offered change and improve the state of affairs. Whether to bring order or mess to the system to a lesser or greater extent. From that point of view, it might be interesting to see a letter that came to Mrs Kosor, and since it came publicly to me in which a dissatisfied mother signed as one parent on behalf of all Croatian disfellowshipped and deceived Croatian parents asks the same question that I am asking here and the public as well. What about this law, what about painting with this Law when it only basically allows for the use of extras to foreigners with approved permanent residence? Or does it say, in what way is the new law working for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? He asks where the healthy logic is, he doesn't write Mrs. Kosor, I apologize to Mrs. Kosor. Where a healthy logic was lost, what happened to the property censorship for single parents, did you even get into this problem when you were taking it in a metric way. What happened to smiles directed at our children, whether it was all a position to gain power, remember not all the users of the supplementing illiterate have those who are educated, and without their own guilt are in the category of poor but honest, religious and willing to have more children. Please don't take away our dignity because that's all we have left, talking to us as if we're a little bit of a short-term memory. So, says this lady, either pass a law according to moral and legal prerogatives or do not spend taxpayers' money selling fog, by adopting a new law that is truly a purpose, believe yourself, it does not serve you or for promotional purposes if that was your intention. It is written in that letter, and I would like to quote it because I have heard it, and in some ways reflects one and perhaps the majority mood, although I would not personally underestimate what was done here, and it is about bringing it into line with the European Union, but the problem is that obviously the public ambition of this small law has increased and that we were pretentious to declare it part of the most intelligent policy, it has nothing to do with it. What the law says is only relevant. Unfortunately, it says that in Croatia, these are facts, everything else is a story, fewer children now than it was in 2001 receiving a child's allowance. There were 628 thousand in 2001. It's now 466. That the number of money paid for children's allowances is reduced and hebrang can say whatever he wants but it happens with other social rights in this country and relatively and absolutely decreases. What we need to answer to, what's the reason for that and what would be the appropriate answer that we could make. We've been doing calculations, some 3.4 years ago, which is the most effective measure to try to be most useful and at the service of families to make it easier for them to achieve a truly non-priced burden of parenting even though it's a blessing but I mean materially. So we were thinking whether to go with tax breaks, there's a solution in some countries that are very important to make families who have children free of this, that tax, etc. There are various other forms to be made through other side-side systems, so to speak, to stimulate birth but we have come up with the result that child's supplement is the most effective tool. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we went along with extending our rights to all the children. And that's why it happened that the doubled funds for child allowances were at that point in 2001 when we introduced that extended right. Why now there's a drop in the number of children, so I don't suppose in this ratio that falls birthright in the Croats. No, it's because it doesn't change the censorship for receiving a child's allowance. And my extremely well-intentioned suggestion that the budgetary base that has been established could be easier to determine and intervene in social rights, that it is changing, harmonized every year, we do not have inflation, should not be more frequent but every year, which means that, according to automation, social or social heights and amounts of child's allowance, but also holds the level of the number of children that would be covered. It's the only real measure, and that story is the only one that makes sense when we talk about a child's allowance. Everything else has nothing to do with those two crucial facts I mentioned here. And one more thing. Whether we're putting in more lines or riots. I'm not sure of the order anymore. It was extremely diabolical to interpret our proposal that the child’s allowance is not granted to those who are no longer children but to be assigned to those who belong there. Extending now for personal or for parents who have children with damage, development needs etc. 27 years old is the reintroduction of riots into a system that has to be arranged so that children's rights and children's rights go to children, that what is the care for those who have the disability of this... the form goes for the poor through that system it means introducing a little more order rather than disorder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, what was actually the reason for this story about this law to be brought into line with the European Union. Well, you know, in 2001, we knew about this provision. We knew of the provision that it should not be discriminatory with regard to citizens in view of the length and duration of citizenship. We were very pragmatic actually reacting. We don't have too much money and we have too much need in this country. Let us then direct this money to our children and families who need it most. I'll agree with anyone who says he likes a child from Makarska and Osijek, and Sisak, I'll say from maybe Derventa or Grud, all those children are dear and we must. We even have a constitutional obligation to help Croats both in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what would I like? To do it in a transparent way. Let's do it by determining how to help these kids, not make people smuggle, falsely sign up and crash the system. That's not good. So let's bring this to this House, but let's say it's for children, let's make it possible for these kids to be educated, to get textbooks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. To the Croats, it's our obligation, but we're doing it transparently. So, the European Union has its own rules and I understand those rules because the European Union has no limits and when you leave France to Germany normally you will continue to receive a child's allowance. We have a more complex situation because we have boundaries, we have our social systems but we also have a neighborhood that unfortunately is not social enough to say organised to help these vulnerable groups. Here is the suggestion, therefore, Mrs. Minister, that we should agree to move the censorship every year and coordinate to ensure a greater number of children's allowances for children in Croatia because it is a good measure and an effective measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37442	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vidovic. Corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is a respected colleague of Hebrang's. Here you go. Just turn the microphone on for the phonogram. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37444	The first thing Mr. Vidovic says is that this law has nothing to do with the intelligence policy. If this law is passed, there will be seven thousand 585 new children's extras, seven thousand 585 children will receive child's allowance. If that's not the most intelligent policy, I don't know what it is. Secondly, he says only foreign citizens' children will benefit from this law. That means he hasn't studied the law well. They will also have children of Croatian citizens because they will not wait three years for the child's allowance and those two categories of seriously ill and with the psycho somatic disturbances in the development that I was saying. They will be on a broader legal basis covered, so there will be more. And in the end, it's not true that social expenditure is a reduction. They are on the rise as I said 53.9% of the gross national or social product in our budget is for social expenditure. And let me just add one more word. As far as the letters are concerned, I've received seven letters of support from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37445	Correction of the incorrectly respected colleague Susana Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37446	And I wanted to correct the incorrect assumption that this heartwarming and demagogue letter was written by a "concerned mother." It is quite incorrect to argue because under this syntagmic, a concerned mother can also be a concerned father, a concerned grandmother, and Mr. Vidovic himself could write that letter and sign with a concerned mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37447	The only thing Vidovic doesn't seem like a worried mother to me. Comrade Matušić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vidovic, incorrectly claimed that his government was expanding the rights of children. Namely, these same children have lost many rights and their parents who are related to these children from maternity benefits, from extras for a certain age group, etc. So their government not only extended the rights of children but abolished them and didted them. That's a fact. And the other thing, pal, is not exactly polite to read other people's letters unless you're the author of that same letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37449	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Majdenic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37450	Thank you very much. Here, I agree with my colleague on the care of every child and that every child is equally valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37451	Comrade Caparin, colleague Majdenic is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37452	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37453	I didn't know you changed your last name. It's all right. Here you go, colleague Majdenic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37454	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleague Vidovic said the same thing that Mr. Frano Matušić said that they went with the expansion of all rights for all children. That's not true. I'm an economist, so I'll say the numbers. In 2001, the number of children who received a child’s allowance was 628 thousand 654 children and should be reminded that such a law had been applied before. In 2001 a new law was passed in the National Journal 94/1, it was passed by your authority and it was applied in 2002, so the beginning and the immediate reduction of the number of children who received a child's allowance with 115 thousand 285 children. So these are not any rights extended but are very narrowed rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37455	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37456	Dear Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleague Vidovic said two things. First, he said what I'm correcting is how abandoning students from the circle of children's extras for the introduction of order. I don't know what kind of order it is when in the end they don't have scholarships or a child's allowance and they go to school. Another incorrect allegation is that the introduction of a budget base institute is a super solution related to harmonisation is not a better solution to the average salary because the budget base can also be reduced rather than just increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37457	Correction of the incorrect quote, respected counterpart Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37458	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague where he claimed that the extension of the right to a child's allowance has enabled a wide range of rights users. As we know and hear, 115 thousand are reduced children's extras. Also, 25 thousand students were left with no extra charge and... is also disabled for those almost receiving social assistance to have the right to a greater allowance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37459	The sugar at the end, the correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Caprin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague that every child is equally valuable and should be cared for. However, it is incorrect for children from Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to do so. It is about children of Croats whose parents live in Croatia, who have real estate and who, by law, have dual citizenship. Therefore, their children, too, are not being smuggled, but are coming to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37461	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs. Dear colleague Tomasic on behalf of the HSP Club, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Opačić had said that this was not a shooting, I'm sorry, but this was really a shooting, not all but parts, and if this is thought to be the benefit of the voters, that is. Croatian TV viewers, they're not that stupid, they still know who did what, or who did what. And as far as we're concerned, that's the number of users entitled to a child's allowance in December 2004 that was 247 thousand 219 persons, which is 32 thousand 922 persons less. And the number of children entitled to an allowance for December 2004 was 466 thousand 545. And for April 2005, 412 thousand 341 children, which is 54 thousand 204 children less. And that is why the HSP Club holds that of all the laws proposed by the emergency procedure, this law should be passed today by emergency procedure rather than waiting for a second reading because who knows when this second reading will come. And finally, let me just say that there are a lot of parents who are unemployed, who are receiving child benefits, and that's the only income they have. You all know that, and we or government employees get paid 3. every month, and these parents are just about to start paying child benefits now. It's sad and I think it should change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37463	Just so there's no confusion about these people who know how long to wait, the second reading is no later than six months in the Rules of Procedure, just for the sake of the public. It's on behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes of respected colleague Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37464	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, as far as the emergency procedure of this law is concerned, we were all able to make a proposal for this law to go into an emergency procedure, but I did not notice that the colleague made an observation on the agenda. At the end of this, this debate of ours, I wouldn't say it was a bickering because we were all discussing it our way. We were saying what we were doing, what the opposition was doing or vice versa at the time. However, the fact is that this law was adopted on a constitutional basis, basically by gentlemen dear and on the other hand on the assessment of today's situation. If we have brought a national demographic development programme in 1996, then we must at least work on these measures and this Law is part of these measures. And finally, gentlemen, we need to keep all further reductions and work gradually really in line with our possibilities for these measures to be improved and to be realized. We can't ignore that today with this law or when we declare that 14 thousand 260 children will be entitled to a child's allowance, it would be a hypocritical opposite of speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37465	SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, once again on behalf of the SDP Club, to confirm that harmonising this law with the laws of the European Union is no other reason, it would be a reason to support it, that and because it will indeed mean that 7,000 children, citizens of this country who live here, are entitled to a child's allowance that they previously did not have. However, it remains out of this debate, a fact that is not good and is not fair to ignore or is not fair to forge. If there was a license plate here except for 2001, why isn't it for example? And 2000? It would have simply been correct, in 2000, if it had been placed then it would have been seen that the number of children of children's allowances in 2000 was 350 thousand, 350 thousand, and then jumped to 628 a year later and now to 466. So there's still 100,000 children more than there were in 2000 who received a child's allowance. Well, that's some progress, the hell we've made in this regard, and who we don't need to ignore. But why did we make that jump? Because we have extended the law and do not question it because it is simply not correct and I am not sure that it will bring any political breakthrough to anyone who is not telling the truth or crossing the truth. I continue to suggest that all the great wisdom about it and cleaning up and changing the laws in which these or these ones will go in to put it aside, it is a well done system and sizes are well defined when it comes to users, regulations well established, it is not of crucial importance or it will link the more important story that we care about. But a change in the height of the census, if any social right should be stimulated that at least it doesn't fall, then that's this. Let's talk about it, there is no such thing in this Law, and it is its biggest falling, the biggest failure of this Law, which does not prevent the fact that the number of children of the users is decreasing and that the social security of the Croatian family in this regard is also reduced. That seems the most important question to me. And I apologize now, one more thing. Why did it happen, the lady asked, why this dramatic fall since 2001, 2002, that because of the 25 thousand students who did not get into it next year. This was the reason for this drastic, children did not stop being born in Croatia on such a scale, not because it was more restrictive in that part but in this part it increased not by 25 thousand but by 300 thousand or 250 thousand children. Still, let's respect things in the sense of what's what.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37467	Final review, Vice President, Minister, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37468	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, finally, with thanks for the debate, I would like to answer a few questions, first of all there were questions from the Croatian Peasant Party, which is the objective of this Law in the sense that it does not see the objective. The objective is simple and I think that it is very well explained in the law of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, it is an obligation. It was a question of how long will we wait for another law reading? We will prepare the second reading for the next session of the Croatian government, and then immediately after that, the law goes to the Parliament. It was also a question of why the law is in the regular procedure, and why is it not in the emergency procedure? I could agree with that if we could go and have an emergency procedure, but we just wanted a regular procedure because of here and some of the thoughts here about whether it would have been better if we had written six months instead of completely taking off those three years and so on. We will, of course, look very, very closely at all the comments and suggestions from the debate and try to install it into these really small changes. It was about us being a government that referred to it as a very important population law. We didn't, we didn't talk much about it in public, we didn't direct it as a very important population law. We simply cited the facts in the explanation and explanation. Then there was thought about in general, I am pleased that the debate on this law has spread to many other areas than violence against women to population policy, to the example in Sweden, and it has been stated here, the claim that the State Institute has left many prepared laws. We haven't found any prepared laws. So I don't know where your laws ended. We haven't found any prepared laws. Then there was a word about the position of women. I must also refer to the position of women, that this government is actually trying to return the woman to the hearth. I quote, "The woman squats by the hearth" and so on. Of course not. I'll get some information. For example, in the past year, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has singled out 3 and a half million kunas for the project "Entrepreneurship of Women". 353 requests have been accepted. Then the credit programme is also implemented, local projects containing the target group entrepreneurship of women in which the interest subsidy on corporate loans would be 4% of which the Ministry of Economy comprises 2% and 2% of the county. And according to this programme, women entrepreneurs submitted a total of 698 requests of 558 million kuna, and 218 loans amounting to HRK 160 million and a large number of applications are being processed and, of course, the Government gives full support to these projects specifically to projects designed for women entrepreneurs. So away from the hearth and away from the keepers of the hearth. There were also incorrect claims that I had come to the head of the Ministry to postpone the debate on extremely important issues in courts and therefore related to family departments or family courts. The request came from the Ministry of Justice and from the President of the Supreme Court that I, and here in the Assembly, explained very clearly and unequivocally what documents and letters of course exist from the President of the Supreme Court and the letter of the Minister of Justice. And finally about the remarks of Mr. President of the Committee, Mr. Vidovic, the committee of directors and parent. I must remind myself that this Committee has adopted this Law unanimously, without any objections as to how much I have been notified and how much I can read, and it is not true that we have increased the ambitions of the Law in the meantime. No, I don't. The ambition of the Law is to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union. And finally, here are the letters that were read on several occasions here, which were allegedly sent to me and quoted in the Assembly, and read by MPs. Of course, I have to say that the letters you quoted and read I didn't get, but I'm curious to know where the letters that were sent to me were? And, of course, I admit it always just signed letters by name and last name. And in the end, it was also said here that it was about painting related to the reasoning of the law. It's not exactly about painting. It is, I repeat, about harmonising with the laws of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37469	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37470	It is incorrect that Mrs. Kosor was not left behind in the former State Institute for Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth or found no prepared law. A law that I know for certain was finished and has been prepared by the Youth Council Act and in line with 100, proposals with almost 100 youth associations. That's what you admitted in response to my representative's question about a year ago. Another proof of this claim is that you have put this Law and the adoption of this Act as part of the action plan for Croatia's accession to the European Union for 2004. About the letters, Mrs. Kosor's letter was sent to me personally. The lady asked me because she's afraid I'm not expressing her name and name, but I'm going to photocopy it without the lady's name and last name, so unfortunately you'll see what I read here in the Croatian Parliament is actually a very mild one and there's a lot more difficult words there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37471	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37472	It is incorrect that Mrs. Vice President and the minister claim to be taking great care of women's employment. This year the unemployment of women is the biggest. Those are irrefutable facts. And one more thing... /The speech room has been excluded./... the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice who claim and call on them that because of this you did not transfer the jurisdiction or transfer, that the jurisdiction of the social care to the courts as in... Constitutionally, you have silenced here that the Constitutional Court calls you and warns you of... /The speech room is off./...unconstitutional situation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you didn't say. ... You're calling yourself here now to what doesn't suit you, and what doesn't suit you, which doesn't suit you, and what doesn't suit you, you keep it quiet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's not correct. Or you're not telling the truth. If you're not telling me anything you know about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37473	My colleague Anticevic, you're reporting for a correction of the incorrect allegations and then accusing the Deputy Prime Minister of saying something incorrect because she's silenced something from the Constitutional Court. Well, don't say that. Well, you can see that you're obviously going under the firm to correct the incorrect allegations. I understand your polemics and your grill and, and your critical distance, but don't go under that. You can see that's not correct. And Milanka Opačić, a respected advocate for correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37474	I'm correcting Mrs. Kosor's incorrect claim that she didn't receive the letter and that she doesn't know why it was addressed to the MPs. The letter I read exists here and the proof is sent to you. You received him at the Ministry. Did you see him about that after? But why was it sent to me? He says, "Dear Mrs. Opačić, in addition, I am delivering the letter to Mrs. Kosor. Since I have no confidence that she will do anything, I ask you to intervene in the adoption of the Law on Extra for Children." That is why she wrote to the citizen, and why she did not sign, and I will quote it. He says this: "In the signing of one parent on behalf of all depraved and deceived Croatian parents who unfortunately dares not sign. Mrs. Kosor, I hope you are pleased that citizens have fear.", closed quote [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37475	Someone claims the letter hasn't been received, and you claim that the letter has been received So how does there be evidence that someone received the letter if he claims not to have received it? [[Intruder: There is evidence that the letter has been received.]] Do you have any proof that he signed the letter recipient, that he signed the receipt of the letter? And a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37476	Mr. President, it's an incorrect quote from the Vice President that this government has done a lot and is doing a lot in the field of female employment. A colleague of Antičević-Marinović mentioned a black number that has absolutely not changed in the past year and the Vice President knows it, and I also remind you that in February of last year you held a meeting of the Economic and Social Council on the subject of women's position on the labour market. Many, I would say, and good conclusions you've made there, however, when you take from what's realized to be one big zero, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37477	I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, First Reading, P.Z.E. 296. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra charge on Children is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 for, 13 abstentions and 4 against accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37480	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's a few words of esteemed MPs and MPs. According to the Law on Privatisation of the INA-industry, the order and dynamics of privatisation are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 5 May 2004, it has been confirmed that the INA public sale process will begin no later than 12 months after the date of entry into force of this decision, which is 4 June 2005. As the same procedure is very complex and long-term, it is evident that it is possible that it will not be able to meet this deadline, and it should be extended as proposed by this proposal, i.e. until 31 December 2005. It is also necessary to select the main coordinator for the process of selling shares through the public offering of shares, which would help the Government of the Republic of Croatia carry out the procedure as advisers. On the assumption that public shares will be implemented on the domestic and foreign market of securities for the approval of the main coordinator, an international public tender should also be opened for a period of time. Here's to short. So that's the reason for the extension of time after the decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37481	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37482	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, we take into account what Mr. Secretary of State has said, which is why there is a delay in the sale of shares of INA, because of complexity and already other reasons that have been said. However, the question remains why these years were not enough to implement the procedure. Because we believe that the privatisation of the INA could be carried out and not in any way but solely in a legal way, especially if we remember the current government's promises at the beginning of the mandate to speed up the privatisation of the entire portfolio, all state-owned companies. It's true, we go back a year, it hastily started to privatise certain companies, we remember "Sunish Hvar," but fortunately soon it had to give up this kind of privatisation, because it was untransparent and extremely suspicious, not to say it unfairly, it awakened memories of a big privatisation robbery in the 1990s. So the question is, why the prolonging? Is it because the privatisation of this big company is too big a bite for this government, is it because it's hard to say that it has a consistent economic policy, regardless of how it responds that all economic indicators are great, and it would be better, here in advance, I'm adding that, only that the former government didn't leave all those huge debts. This is what we heard so many times in the Croatian Parliament, it doesn't seem serious anymore. Or another reason I'm going to stay for a while, because this government wants to avoid, or delay, the allocation of the stake. shares to employees and Croatian defenders, showing again its specific understanding of the social policy which is based now and in this previous point on big promises, and in this case especially to Croatian defenders, which are not being met as attached. I could talk about it for hours, but it certainly won't help anyone, so I'll be very brief and precise. I'd stay in this segment for one of the more concrete reasons for delaying the privatisation of the INA, which is to assign dividends. Article 4(1), second in the Privatisation Act of the INA, says that privatisation of the INA will take place, among other things, with the transfer of 7% of shares to Croatian defenders and members of their families, and by selling up to a maximum of 7% of the shares to employees and former employees of INA groups under special benefits to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And Article 5, which states that the dividend achieved on the basis of shares owned by the Republic of Croatia, is the income of the state budget and the second item which says "no revenue from the state budget is achieved by the shares which will be transferred without compensation in the light of the provision of Article 4(1) of the first paragraph of this law". So, shares to be allocated to Croatian defenders. It would be all right if we didn't have the experience of privatizing, i.e. the allocation of shares and dividends to HT. The assignment of these shares, i.e. the HT dividends to the Croatian Defence Fund, can be said that the government was hiding its feet until a few days ago when we could finally hear from the Government that they had to first amend the law that had been passed by the Parliament, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund which was not good in one part. Okay. We can accept that. Maybe it's fixed for real. Then the shares of HT were transferred to that Fund, which is a fact. It may have been a longer procedure, but let's leave this behind and for the first time it has been recognised that the dividend everyone claimed until yesterday belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund is now said not to be the case and that the dividend belongs to the state budget. It's about about 140 million kunas that will make the conclusion that what the government gave, it's what the government took. So Croatian defenders not only received some hundred million or 150 million kunas in these rights through, or through, the adoption of a new law as said, but now 140 million kunas have been taken from them. But it looks like he's not just gonna stop at HT. We're moving on. So now we're here for this INA debate. I'm afraid the HT analogy will happen with the INA dividend. I also expect, of course, that the Associations of Homeland War defenders who are participating have a majority in the administrative board of the Croatian Defence Fund also make it clear their position whether they agree with such measures of the Government or have some different opinion that there are no misunderstandings. The next question that is logically asked is when will Croatian defenders receive stakes in these Croatian defenders' fund if the privatisation of large state-owned companies goes this slow. Even what was prepared and could be relatively and quickly implemented is now prolonged. So the question arises and what about the privatisation of HEP, Croatian forests, Croatian waters etc., etc. Because there is a possibility that this will happen in the next 5, 6 or how many years, and therefore the shares that Croatian defenders from the existing Croatian Defence Fund will receive will indeed be. Everyone will be dissatisfied regardless, and it will go into account regardless of what government was at the time on the political scene. And even less likely to share if we know what has been promised to Croatian defenders and what rights in the law are particularly prescribed and precise. The question arises what will then become of Croatian employment. Here I think in today's newspaper we have one request from the representatives of one of the two HT trade unions he referred to, which is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia where the issue is being asked, after the defenders received 7% of the shares are also asked by workers but the majority owner of Deutschetelekom does not allow the definition of the price at which the shares of HT would be sold to workers, thereby blocking all negotiations between the government and the union. So if we have a HT case today on the agenda we have a prolonging of the privatisation of the INA. It doesn't take too much imagination to conclude that everything that's going on with HT will come with the INA as well. It's just really where we are. Me and the SDP club would like to be denied by arguments. Unfortunately, in this case, it's going to be a little harder. And I end up with the Croatian defenders again, and here we have now had a debate, a very long debate on children's allowances, that this government is the representatives of a political party who was then in opposition and now in power that it was very precise in promises and that it is very consistent in failing to fulfill the promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37483	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37484	Thank you, Mr. President. Except for a number of incorrect allegations, I'll fix two. First, counterpart Pancic said that he did not act seriously what happened here several times, which is that this government would have been more successful in the past year if it had not inherited the debt that the former government had left. Your colleague is very serious when you have a debt that was not planned, nor is such a debt voted in this Croatian Assembly. It is clear that this was reflected directly on all the users of the budget. That's quite clear. And it is also not true that this government was consistent with the promises and inconsistencies of those promises. This is completely incorrect because, in the first days and first year, those promises have already begun to be realized and will certainly be fulfilled by the end of the term and all that we have promised on the guaranteed card. Be assured of that, and these economic, macroeconomic indicators that you have positively spoken of are certainly correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37485	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37486	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Proposal for a Decision on, amending and supplementing decisions on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA is actually one continuity of the work of this Government when it comes to INA, its privatisation and its relationship with Croatian defenders. So let's remind ourselves. Last year we made a decision. The government made a decision confirmed by the parliament to postpone privatisation by one year. However, according to the Privatisation Act, after the sale of 25% of INA shares to the then strategic partner Molo, according to the Privatisation Act, the second stage of privatisation envisioned the division, she planned to sell 15% of shares to domestic and foreign legal persons, but also to Croatian citizens with special benefits. The second phase of the privatisation of INA was not predicted by any strategic partner. However, the law envisioned the award of 7% of shares to Croatian defenders and the sale of 7% of shares to current and former INA employees. None of it was realised in the meantime. We expected to successfully begin this process in the middle of last year. However, last year, by the government's decision adopted here by the Parliament, so in May last year, all this was delayed by a year. And now instead of welcoming the government's report on what we actually did, we're getting a request from the government to go to a new delay by the end of the year. So I agree that the sale of public sales of shares is not simple. I agree that setting up a defense fund and transferring shares to them isn't easy. But for God's sake, it's been a year, 12 months, 200 working days. What's the problem? We in HSP have an idea what it's really about. In fact, the prime minister has promised INA and pensioners shares in the meantime, which was not foreseen by the Privatisation Act. We are aware of the pressure and demands that Moll expand his share of the INA. But simply for all of these requirements of space in this number of shares, it does not have all that expensive allowing the law, and then including between changing the law and filling all these demands, let's share the pensioners, shares of the defenders, shares of employees, shares of Molu, sales on the stock market, including between all these demands, the Government has made an obvious Solomonian solution to postpone all of this by another six months. That's not how ladies and gentlemen work. If it really is a big and important job, then we expected you to report to the Assembly what you did during this year. Now let's just say it out of the blue, and now we're gonna put it off by six months because it's really complicated. So it just doesn't work. For all these reasons, we cannot support this decision to postpone the process of the envisaged Privatisation Act as long as the Government does not report to us what it has done to form a defence fund, in the way it is managed, to assess the value of the INA that we know at all what value of the shares we give to those defenders in that fund. I remind here that in the meantime INA, along with "Mola" is the right to buy "Energopetrol" that gas finds in Syria, that the value of the INA may be different than it was a few years ago when privatisation was being done, that a whole series of modernisations were carried out in the INA itself. It would also be good to know the value of the shares given to that fund. We did not get any of this here, except one earnest request from the Croatian government to postpone this whole story for another six months. So in a situation where the Croatian state, in which the hole in the budget is growing, we are afraid that the compensation of the loss in the budget will be made precisely by selling the shares of the INA, and that in all these short sleeves can remain Croatian defenders. In order not to do so, we insist that the law is strictly respected, that the obligations foreseen by law are strictly respected, that the most urgent shares are transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund and we do not allow any excuses or excuses why this has not been done so far. You had a year to do that. HSP won't accept this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37487	Thank you. HNS representative PGS club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37488	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the first, I think at the first or second session of Mr. Prime Minister, I asked when those 7% of the defenses and shares for HT employees would be solved. That's when I got the answer to negotiate and to negotiate and that's very soon to be settled. Here it's been almost a year and a half, it hasn't been solved, and now as far as I can tell, it's happening to the INA. I don't believe in this story that this delay we're having because it couldn't be solved by now, I think it could have been resolved anyway. The defenders could get their 7%, the employees could get 7%. But now the fact is set up by another participant in that division, and these are pensioners, and they are probably promised some 7%, and now they're looking for a prolongation to actually do nothing about it. If this prolongation were to be achieved as high as possible, then I would be there for it and support it and we support that it will go to a normal international public tender and we agree on that. However, as we know when HT was sold both the first time and the second time we went with logic as if we were selling "Audi", we filled the budget, as if we were selling "Audio 5" because we needed to buy cheese and cream. And since we didn't have the money for it, then we went to the camera to give us some 500 DEM for which we sell this "audio," and he gave us 50 and we agreed to those 50. So I'm afraid the same situation might happen in this case, that we're putting this all off without the effects of these delays being anything, i.e.. that what we're selling to sell our goods into invaluables from the simple fact that the budget is empty and that we want to fill the budget, and thus we're going to re-sell this people again and we're going to achieve some price that I repeat because we want to buy cheese and cream, we're going to sell our "Audi".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37489	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37490	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Ma a relatively one benign decision to amend and supplement the decision on order and dynamics of privatisation of INA actually exposes a whole series of things and failures as it is and what it is and points to irregularities that are not good that we have no matter who is in power. The first thing I would like to say is that the materials attached show something that is amazing is that the decision to amend the Order Decision and the dynamics of the privatisation of INA has been changed by the conclusion. Therefore, the decision as a legal act is amended in a conclusion that is not a legal act. Since 5 May 2004, the decision has been changed in conclusion since 13 May 2004, so that the dates and everything else have actually changed, i.e. the items. It's not good and in such a situation it's quite clear why it happened. It happened, among other things, because if it were an amendment and an addition to a decision then it would have to come to the Parliament's agreement. The second thing that is seen from this is the fact that the deadline for the privatisation and sale of shares is based on a public tender and of course on citizens, etc. and physically and legal persons expired. Dear colleagues made the decision on May 5th 2004. If we accept the fact even that the conclusion was amended and updated on 13 May 2004, and the decision is written in force by giving consent to the Parliament, today is May 20, respected colleagues why we are discussing this. The decision has expired, it should apply. The third, which is also important, is because in this decision from 13, it doesn't say anything, not when it comes in or out. She's been changed, completed. It is obvious, then, that this decision, which has been amended before, has come into effect. So the earliest deadline that would have to be is the 13th of May, and today is the 20th. So the deadline's up. Now, the third thing to read from all of this is the question, and why there is always a delay among other things in the decision that should be made simplistic, that the Republic of Croatia in the right of the benefits and the conditions that the Government will determine, in particular, could be made to domestic legal persons, etc. start the sale process for foreign investors. Why does that keep delaying? Look, it's year after year. It also raises a very interesting question, the fourth question. The fact is that the memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Monetary Fund is still in force in the Republic of Croatia, which clearly requires and accepts the obligation to put privatisation revenues into the state budget. That income from profits in public and state-owned enterprises in which the state shares 100% or any other share will also be revenues from the budget. In such a situation, the question is raised quite seriously, and what about the revenue from the shares which, under the force of the INA Privatisation Act and not only the INA but also the telecommunications should belong to the defenders or which should be privatised under this Act and allowed to be given to citizens... This revenue, i.e. that profit, becomes actually an integral part of the budget and there is an additional instrument for ensuring the return of credit to an international, or public debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this kind of behavior is not good and that it points to further doubt that in fact some irregularities in terms of conversion and privatisation are not left behind again. After all, we have protests again or better today in the continuity of the Sljemen protest. Who, unfortunately, are also protesting the actual problems that followed after the privatisation, i.e. meeting the obligations of the people who took over by privatising the company. It should be said that in such a situation it is quite clear from what can be heard in the conversation with the workers, from what the unions write. That not only did these people not stop, that they were cut off by not being paid, they got paid, but their contributions to their pension and office insurance were not paid, health insurance. That, among other things, they were reportedly stripped of even the funds of the credit obligations they had taken over. At the same time, we in the Croatian Parliament concluded in the context of the revision of the conversion that state bodies should take the appropriate actions. Of course, among other things, we found there somewhere in 2003 that the company, that is, the privatisation process of Sljemen, was also questionable on the basis of the State Audit, i.e. from a legal point of view. Nothing else, there's nothing left for me but to order publicly from here, and what the government should do in its segment regardless. Everyone in their jurisdiction, executive, judicial, etc., or law enforcement and demand bodies. It is more urgent to take measures to remove illegalities and in fact sanction the position of these people and to allow them to belong to what they have under the law and not to have to seek it in Mark's square, in front of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government. Are we going to postpone these kind of decisions and decisions that we're making right now to reopen the procedure for someone else to come to Mark's square and look for their shares? I don't know, defenders looking for shares of their own, possibly citizens, because by procedure,... I can refuse the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I'd like to say one more thing that from this decision can also be read as... This decision also found something a little surprising, you know? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been established that the process of transfer of these shares will be given to these 7% of shares to Croatian defenders after, which will be given to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families immediately after the amendment of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Watch out, that was made a year ago, by amending and supplementing the decision. The amendment of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund has not come into the agenda at all, and we practically have one decision that has put the Law that is in effect. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund states that they should get shares, not in the Privatisation Act. That we should get you, and then we simply said we'd change that law, and we don't have that at all in the Parliament. We never get that amendment and the addition of the law, and practically we have one huge property that belongs to Croatian defenders, 7% of INA is a pretty big asset, of course people can't handle or manage, and at the same time the benefits that, through the acquisition of the share of profits, could not actually be realised. I am seriously asking whether we are aware that often times with such decisions we can actually cause a chain reaction to the post-festum in their implementation of a whole series of users of material and financial rights that can be achieved on the basis of other legal issues. That's one. And number two, as reflected in the function of government, i.e. the position of rule of law and the rule of law when the decision practically postpones the application and implementation of the law. I think if something had already happened, then the laws had to be changed and in such a situation came out publicly before the Parliament and said. As in the decision, after all, and written. If the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund was to be amended, then it was necessary to prepare an amendment to the Law and to deliver it to the Croatian Assembly. And not a year ago, money, for example... Telecommunications has already been taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we're also going to get a good piece of INA from last year's reckoning. And what will remain the defenders after all? They will wait for the amendments and the additions of the Law again and at the same time we will call on how we will and want to make it easier for our defenders to do and facilitate the situation after the Homeland War. I think it's a little bit of even duality, not to mention something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37491	Thank you. Does the secretary of state, Vladimir Vrankovic, want a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37492	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, I would return everything to the beginning and say what is the fundamental reason for making a change to this decision. The fundamental reason is what it is, I will use the word used by my colleague Kapraljevic, that is to protect the remaining treasure we have left. So INA as an undertaking of exceptional importance for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. When we entered the INA at the beginning of the term of office, the situation was very bad. The INA's value started to drop, and INA's technological condition was alarming. And that's also one of the reasons why the value like that fell. Because the products produced by INA at the time were not so high-quality that they could be placed on the market. This government has on several occasions prolonged the possibility of placing INA products on the market because they did not satisfy the quality prescribed by law. For these reasons, in order to maintain the value of INA, to make INA as such a regional player on the market we simply had to look for a so-called "time out" and we couldn't go to accelerated privatisation as imposed by the INA Privatisation Act. There is no question at all that this Law will not be respected as such. So those 7% defenders, 7% of the workers, and 15% on the market, and that's going to happen right away, so after the technological reconstruction of the INA itself is defined. Unfortunately, we're this INA technology reconstruction program even though we've given several assignments to make in a very short time, we got it a month ago. For these reasons, we were unable to go to tendering. The weight of this investment operation is a billion dollars. And so you can see in what technological state it was in, there were refineries in the INA itself that make up practically the heart of production itself. And that's the basic reason. We can now also discuss the Law on Defence and Other Things, but the basic reason is technical technology and retaining the value of INA so that it can be sold as high as possible, what it is for sale, and that the value of the shares that will be allocated to defenders and sold to workers will be as high-quality as possible. And not only that, to keep the long-term development and position of INA in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37493	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the order and dynamics of privatisation of INA, granting consent. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the proposed decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 16 abstentions and 20 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37498	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, you were given the written form on the benches of the entire text, so this report, and I will not read it but I will only say that it is a private lawsuit against colleagues Branimir Glavas for the criminal act against honor and reputation committed by slander or an insult that the municipal court in Zagreb has informed the Croatian Parliament, therefore, of the Mandate Commission and that the mandate committee has taken a position and is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision denying granting authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings. Because the position of the commission is not to remove immunity, and the proposal therefore to the Croatian Assembly for Criminal Crimes against honor and reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37499	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Second. Report by the mandated Immunity Commission on the request to authorise the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Joza Radoš of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37500	Therefore, in this case, it is also a private lawsuit for a criminal offence against honor and reputation committed by slander or insult, and it is proposed by the Mandate Commission that no authorisation be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37501	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And the third report by the Mandate Commission on the request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vladimir Šišljagic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37502	As in the previous two cases, private lawsuits, in this case, were filed in private, a group of private prosecutors filed a lawsuit over a crime against honor and a reputation committed by slander against MP Vladimir Sišljagic. Since the position of the Commission is as in the previous two cases, that criminal acts against honor and reputation are not granted approval for the initiation of proceedings, the Mandate Commission proposes that the Croatian Parliament be denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37503	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, Mr. President. Reports of the mandate-immunity commission. In accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which, during the term of the term of office, has been denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas in the case after a private suit, etc. Who is for this proposal the conclusion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 102 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. The same is the proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission, which, during the term of its term of office, is denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Joza Rados in cases of... in private lawsuits, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, I'm voting on this committee's proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 98 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against the proposed decision. Thirdly, in accordance with the proposal of the same Commission, I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision which, in the course of the term of the parliamentary term, has been denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Vladimir Šišljagic in the case and, according to a private lawsuit for a criminal offence, etc., according to a private suit. I am voting on the proposal for that conclusion, the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the proposed decision was made with 101 votes and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37506	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 13th session held on 2 June 2005 a proposal to replace the late representative of Snježana Bige-Friganovic in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the coalition of parties of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Liberal Party by an act of 31 May 2005. As Mrs Snjezana Biga-Friganovic was elected representative as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Liberal Party in the sixth election unit of the Social Democratic Party Party's coalition of Croatia and the Liberal Party, in accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph 1. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Mrs Ivana Posavec-Krivec as deputy representative in that election unit begins to act as representative instead of representative of Snježana Bige-Friganovic. The commission found that the death of MP Snježana Bige-Friganovic was in accordance with Article 10. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has suspended its parliamentary mandate and that, on the basis of the notification of the coalition of the Social Democratic Party Party of Croatia and the Liberal Party on the person who, instead of the deceased MPs, will act as a representative, the conditions for the start of the deputy deputy representative Ivana Posavec-Krevec. The mandate-immunity committee is unanimously proposing to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the representative's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputy. On 22 January 2005, representatives of Snjezani Bigi-Friganović were suspended, and the parliamentary duty is in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. On 3 June 2005, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began to act as deputy representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37507	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 92 votes to make the proposed decision. Now we're going to move on to swearing an attorney. In accordance with Article 7. Representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec's Rules of Procedure will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the President of the House reads the text of the oath, and then the representative after being called up and said: I swear. I will read the text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37508	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37509	The next item is - Proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act - Proposer of Representative Dorotea Pešić-Bukovac, first reading P.Z. No. 254. You received the proposal by post, the representatives of the applicant will not further explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. Representative Ivan Vučić's club, giving up the debate, thank you very much. Honorable representative on behalf of the SDP Club, Miroslav Korenik, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is, as the government says in its explanation, there is still no need to approach the adoption of this law, however, this is the possibility to talk about the state of road transport in the Republic of Croatia with several aspects. The undisputed fact is that there are currently more than 29 thousand vehicles in the Republic of Croatia, trucks that are over 18 years old. We also know the economic and economic situation of the Republic of Croatia, and the fact is that the objective in terms of traffic safety should certainly be to have technically correct vehicles moving our roads. I am not convinced that only the age of the vehicle can be a condition of technical regularity or not, I believe it should be regular controls, these are technical tests of the vehicle as well as of the personal ones, so only technically correct vehicles should or should drive the Croatian roads. The proposal for this law goes after this, i.e. the law that applies where the need to comply with the state of affairs is about a year, the question is that Croatian artisans will work mostly on legal persons or craftsmen who have a certain number of old vehicles, in which way they will continue to participate in the process of work, because the fact is that and by what means by one legal text, these people will be able to buy new vehicles and secure their business on the Croatian market anyway. In this case, the question is, so almost 20% of these vehicles are over 18 years old, that is, the problem but the problem is complete in Croatian transport and the internal but also international ones. We know that already outside Croatia, especially on the European Union roads, you cannot come with vehicles that are older, which are no longer ecologically clean, ecologically quality and our carriers invest significant money to improve the state of the rolling stock. In doing so, we expect the Ministry to be in the next period, because we believe that despite the efforts made by both the former and the current government, it is not enough to improve the status of carriers in Croatia. From the black market on one side to the fact that we have an insufficient number of permits exchanged with abroad, there are particularly problematic permits to enter Austria and Italy, therefore I ask and it seems to me that it is a pity that there is no representative of the Government who could give us further reasons because the great dissatisfaction of Croatian carriers with the status and state of exchange, i.e. obtaining permits for international transport. There's a lot of dissatisfaction with the ministry's work, and I think in that sense we need to improve the situation in the competent ministry. What is particularly important right now is that the government, in its explanation, says that at this point, no need to initiate changes and additions to the law but that the government will monitor the situation. It seems to me that the last months of this year when an agreement should occur, it may be too late already that such a law or such an analysis of the situation should be done if not in front of this House, but should come before the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships as a parent body within our House of Commons, where it could then be seen whether there is a need for a change of the Law. This is especially because the largest number of carriers that have these old vehicles are mostly small carriers, meaning companies that have possibly 1, 2, 3 vehicles and craftsmen. So that most sensitive part of Croatian society, because by banning their transport, we will be left without a significant number of jobs. It would also be necessary to get an analysis of the state of work in black as part of that. Unfortunately, we still have a large number of carriers working on black on one side or who have a number of trucks or buses and do not have employees. This is a lack of current law, and it seems to me that this is an opportunity to in some way, and yet I am stressing with regret that the government's representatives are currently here we will not get an analysis of the situation throughout Croatia. That's the problem. Let us remember that we have a lot of words and a lot of talk about the problems of Croatian carriers who have been driving and are still driving to a thorny area in Iraq. They are forced to drive to other European countries for lack of permits. Therefore, it is obvious that this government must work far more to ensure equal conditions for Croatian carriers, for Croatian drivers such as those who bring goods to Croatia. Let us also remember the problems with the Republic of Slovenia. Then I must say that the government did well, quickly and sharply. However, I think that this should be done also towards other countries with which licenses and licenses are exchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u37511	Thank you very much. No more reports. There's no proposer either. I'm closing the debate. I'm setting a recess until 3:00 when we vote. And next week we will begin on Tuesday morning with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Value Added Tax Act, the Proposer of the SDP Advocacy Club, and then on the medically assisted fertilisation of legislator Frana Piplovic, and on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Law on Coast Guard of the same SDP Club, etc. I'm setting a break now because it's not worth starting this topic. So we'll be there in 15 hours. I ask MPs and MPs to take the keys with them. It's 13,13 o'clock. Proposal for a Law amending the Road Transport Act, first reading, P.Z. 254. In line with the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia puts the next conclusion to the vote. The proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act proposed by MP Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 11 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38921	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 25th session of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established. A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr. Miomir Zuzul. A brief explanation. By a decision to suspend the term of office of representative in the Croatian Parliament, Danira Bilic, who stopped acting on 25 February 2005, was a member's seat in that Committee. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the HDZ Representatives' Club asked for Dr Miomir Zuzul to be elected to the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament as a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38922	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that a member of the Foreign Committee, the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, was elected by MP Miomir Zuzul of 94 votes for and 3 abstentions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38923	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr Miomir Zuzul. A brief explanation. The decision to suspend the term of office and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament of Danira Bilic, who stopped acting on 25 February 2005 is a member's seat in that Committee. In his letter of 24 May, the HDZ Representatives Club asked for Dr Miomir Zuzul to be elected to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament for the vacancy of the Committee member.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38924	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the decision was made with 91 votes for and 3 abstentions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38925	At the 25th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr. Andrija Hebrang. A brief explanation. By a decision to suspend the term of office of the deputy deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament of Ms Katarina Fuček, who ceased to act on 25 February 2005 as a member of that Committee, it remained vacant. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the HDZ Representatives' Club asked for Dr. Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38926	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that proposal, please engage. We can vote. Score. A proposal adopted by 92 votes in favour and one abstention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38927	The 25th session of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. First, the duties of Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Drmić, secondly for the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, are chosen by Tomislav Culjak. Reason: The decision to elect the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Drmic, was elected as a member of that committee. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the HDZ Representatives' Club asked for MP Tomislav Culjak to be elected to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament instead of Vice-President of the Committee of Ivan Drmic for the Vice-President of the Committee. At its 25th session held on 25 May 2005, the Selection and Designation Committee and the Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed that proposal and discussed it in accordance with Article 44(3) and (4) of Article 94(1), Article 91(1), Article 118(2) and Article 244(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established this proposal for a decision with an explanation that we are submitting to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38928	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a motion to resolve and appoint, please join. We can vote. Score. I find that with 88 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38929	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on the Labour of Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament, first discharge of the duties of a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament Master Vladimir Šišljagić, second member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament is elected. Andrew Hebrang. Reason: By choosing the president, vice president and members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament, Master Vladimir Šišljagic was elected member of the Committee. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the Croatian Democratic Community's representative club asked for Dr. Vladimir Šišljagić to be elected to the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament instead of a member of the Committee of Directors. Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38930	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find the proposed decision has been made with 88 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38931	The 25th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. Dr Andrija Hebrang is elected vice-president of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A brief explanation: The decision to suspend the term of office and the suspension of the office of deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament, Katarina Fuček, who ceased to act on 25 February 2005 is the post of vice-president in that Committee. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the Croatian Democratic Community's representative club asked for Dr. Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38932	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. You can vote. Score. I find that the proposed decision was made with 91 votes for and 2 abstentions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38933	The 25th session of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. As a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, Dr. Miomir Zuzul. A brief explanation: The decision to suspend the term of office and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament of Danira Bilić, who stopped acting on 25 February 2005 is the place of the member listed in the delegation. In his letter of 24 May 2005, the Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club asked for Dr. Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38934	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on this proposal, please let's get involved. We can vote. Score. I find that with 85 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the proposed appointment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38935	At the 25th session of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, a unanimous proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Committee of Awards Ivan Filipovic was established. First in the Committee of Awards, Ivan Filipovic is named President Petar Selem, University Professor, Chairman of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For the members of Mladen Boban, university professor, dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Split, Mira Christmas teacher of preschool education, director of the kindergarten Ivana Brlić Mažuranić in Zagreb and president of the Association of Directors of Preschool Institutions of the City of Zagreb. Vesna Budimski, professor at Ivan Goran Kovačić elementary school in Zagreb, Tomislav Horvat, professor and principal of the school Josip Račić in Zagreb and president of the Croatian Association of Directors of Primary Schools. Ivica Lovrić graduated, director of the railway technical school in Zagreb and president of the Croatian Association of Directors of secondary schools. Boris Olujic University Professor of Philosopher's University of Zagreb, Angelka Peko, professor of higher school in Osijek, Marija Turk University of Philosophy University of the River. The second, members of the award committee Ivan Filipovic, appointed from the beginning of the term of office on 14 March 2003, ended the term of office on 14 March 2005. The explanation you have in the materials, if necessary I will further explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38936	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee of the Awards Ivan Filipovic. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I note that the proposed decision was made with 89 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. Is there anything else, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38937	There is. At the 25th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, a unanimous proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia was established. First, a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology of the Development of the Republic of Croatia shall be dismissed, at the proposal of the Rectorial Assembly of the University of the Republic of Croatia Prof. dr. Ivo Babic, on personal request. Second, as a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, it is appointed as a proposal for a rectorial assembly of the higher universities of the Republic of Croatia. Željko Dujic, Rector of the University of Split. You also have an explanation in the material if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-05-20-0.u38938	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that the proposed decision has been made by 90 votes for and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how we exhausted the session's work force today. On Wednesday 1, we begin the debate on the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. And after that, the 2004 Ombudsman's 2004 report on the work of the children. We'll continue on the agenda, given the adopted ones we'll see today. The committees should work out these agenda proposals that we have put on the agenda today. At 5:00, there's a formal session about 19 hours is a ceremony for the Memorial of the Croatian Assembly. [[Intruder: 19.]] I appeal to MPs and MPs, will be the entire diplomatic court, mayors, representatives of public and political life, the judicial authorities of all institutions to keep them in, to be at the ceremony. And should be here sooner or later, starting at 7:00, when is it supposed to be? There should be 15 minutes in the hall, 10, 15 minutes before. Papers, take the papers under the bench or with you. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 7:00. The session was interrupted at 17.04 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax - Proposers: Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjević and Dragica Zgrebec, first reading P.Z. No. 255; Proposers of the Law are a group of representatives: Mato Arlović, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mato Gavran, Marin Jurjevic and Dragica Zgrebec. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. On behalf of the promoter, who will further explain the proposal? Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
