ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u49997	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we warmly welcome you all, continue your work and move on to the 7th point of the purified agenda. Namely, - Final proposal of the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384. Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Do you want a proposaler's representative, Minister Shuker? Yeah. Here you are, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u49998	... The government of the Republic of Croatia has sent this House to consider and adopt in the past few months. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, financial laws which should regulate the situation on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia. And what you'd like to say at the beginning, I'd like to thank all those who participated in the preparation of this Law. Because when you see that the Accounting Act was passed in 92 and applied from 1 January 1993 and when you look at only how many changes were made starting from tax laws to a series of other laws, these past 12 years, then I guess we all know that this Law is something that entrepreneurs need. But we also had the fact and reality that in Croatia there were, to put it this way, 3 groups or 3 groups that had different thoughts about what this Accounting Act should look like. How international accounting standards should apply to Croatia. And I think this Bill of Accounting proposal is something that together the three groups that have thought differently and have agreed that it would be the most ideal for Croatia. However, it should also be noted before I start talking about this Law that major companies in Croatia have had a lot of problems in the past few years when they appeared either to want to buy something out there, that they want to appear in any way on the market of Europe or the world, they had to make their balance sheets according to international accounting standards. Because the balance sheets they did in Croatia were simply incomprehensible and unacceptable outside. However, in the application of international accounting standards over the past period, some doubts remained while HORS published the latest translations in 2000, although significant changes have occurred in international accounting standards. In addition, the current Law stipulates that only those international accounting standards published in the "National Journal" are applicable in the Republic of Croatia, the complexity of the situation with the application of accounting standards in the Republic of Croatia. In a completely unenviable situation, the persons in the companies are responsible, as are the auditors. On top of that, the International Accounting Standards Committee, which published international accounting standards, was also abolished and was subsequently established by the International Accounting Standards Committee, which publishes international standards for financial reporting. Thus, the current provision of the applicable Law was fully questioned. Since the Republic of Croatia is 13, it has been using international accounting standards for 13 years and seems completely unjust now to develop its own national standards. International financial reporting standards should be adopted, taking into account their own circumstances of showing and using standards especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very important to note that small and medium-sized enterprises have not been covered by international accounting standards before. The process itself of transforming the former international accounting standards into international standards of financial reporting has not occurred for purely technical reasons but is due to the real need to adapt accounting reports to users, i.e. investors and the public in general. From what is stated, the application of international standards of financial reporting in the Republic of Croatia would be only a natural sequence of use of former international accounting standards. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia thus allows the results of the business of domestic and foreign companies to be comparable, as well as the competitiveness of the national economy in relation to other countries. Because among other things, financial reports are one of the arguments when it comes to competitiveness, the comparability of domestic companies with foreign companies. This proposal for a Accounting Act is therefore based on the application of international standards of financial reporting, so that the Financial Reporting Standards Committee should actively regulate the application of standards in particular in the part of small and medium-sized enterprises. Until final publication and adoption of international standards of financial reporting for small and medium-sized enterprises by the International Accounting Standards Committee. We point out that the application and way of applying international standards of financial reporting in the Republic of Croatia is not contrary to the European Union directives or to the European Community regulation, No 1606/2002. The implementation of this Act requires funding from the state budget, given that the Financial Reporting Standards Committee will be financed in a mixed manner from the State budget and from beneficiaries of international financial reporting standards. The former Croatian Accounting and Accounting Standards Board, or the short-term HORS, has also been funded from the state budget since 2000, and has ceased to exist unfortunately in 2000 when the finance minister did not appoint new members of the Croatian Accounting and Accounting Committee. The projected funds in the state budget to finance the implementation of this Act in the first year amount to 600 thousand kuna, in the second year 700 thousand kuna and in the third year 800 thousand kuna. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2005 Chapter 3, the ability to assume obligations under EU membership, point 3.5. of trade law, point 3.5.4 of the accounting period, point 3.5.4.1 of the short-term legislative harmonisation priorities, has been established by harmonisation of the legislation in the area of commercial law. In this respect, I propose the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, since this is how the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of commercial law is carried out with respect to the property of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u49999	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my representatives that the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjak has called a session of the board, 24, so today at 13:30 in the hall "Ante Starčević", that is 149. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50000	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There are several reasons why the Accounting Act has to be amended since 1 January 1993. The first and most important reason is that the existing Law provides for international accounting standards to be applied in the Republic of Croatia, and is implemented by the Croatian Accounting and Accounting Committee, the HORS, which published the latest international accounting standards in 2000. Since then, significant changes have occurred in carcases, i.e. AHORS, which should have been interpreted and no longer formally acted. To make the situation even more complicated in the meantime, the International Committee for Accounting Standards has been abolished, which published international accounting standards, and an International Accounting Standards Committee has been established to publish international standards for financial reporting. This introduced a complete mess where accounting experts, responsible persons in companies, and auditors also found themselves in a very invisible position. All of this resulted in a fundamental dilemma under which legal provisions must draw up financial reports, which provisions apply and which are addressed for interpretation of the rules. On the other hand, since Croatia has already used international accounting standards for 13 years, it was illogical that it is now developing its own Croatian ideas, especially since, in terms of free market economy and capital market development, the European Union accounting regulation is in line with international accounting standards and international financial reporting standards. This is important because international financial markets, investors and financial analysts are looking for unique and comparable indicators in order to determine the status and rating of a particular company. The new Bill on Accounting will address these dilemmas and define the framework and standards of financial reporting. The law provides for the establishment of a committee for financial reporting standards, its tasks, composition and powers of Article 19 of the Law. We think it is good that the Committee is a professional body composed of representatives of the accounting profession and that responsible persons in companies will finally know who they need and can address when interpreting and applying both standards and international standards of financial reporting. The Committee should also regulate the application of standards for small and medium-sized enterprises so that their form and content of reporting is consistent with international standards, regardless of their lack of international public importance. This is important because both small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to compare and measure with similar activities, groups or by size. In particular, it should be noted that the draft law respected the opinion and attitude of the profession, i.e. the consultation of representatives of the Croatian Association of Accounting and Financial Workers closest to the practical application of the law. We also believe that it is good that the law therefore provides for the possibility that accounting documents, i.e. books, can be drawn up electronically, but in accordance with the Law on Electronic Signature. Finally, it is not worth noting once again that the adoption of this Act is an obligation under the national programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2005, Chapter Three, and it is proposed to adopt it as an emergency procedure, since this is the way in which the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union is carried out. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50001	Thank you very much. It is up to the Club of HSP Representatives Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50002	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers. For us at the HSP Club, the very fact that the value of the Accounting Act is still in force since 1 January 1993 speaks enough about the necessity and the fact that it is necessary to adopt a new Accounting Act, above all, and to harmonise the meaning of our regulations with the legal gains of the European Union on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is necessary to be realistic and to say that life has been overrun by the existing law, and we also know from the opening presentation and the minister that there are a lot of doubts about first of all, that the existing law defines that financial reports are carried out only by large and medium-sized entrepreneurs, while in this regard, the status of small and all companies with limited liability remains unsettled. At the same time, the HORS published the latest translations in 2000, although significant changes in standards occurred in the meantime. When adding to this the fact that the current Accounting Act stipulates that only those "MRS" published in the "National Journal" are applicable in Croatia, we come to what a complex situation is and what a problem non-compliance means in this area for companies or large and medium and small entrepreneurs. So, as a club, we will uphold this law. On this occasion, I would also like to say that there is a visible and shift in the work of the government, as well as the ministry itself regarding the expression of legal norms and one, means that work on the regulation itself is being stepped up. It's no longer a clean copy of a literal directive. Thus, the situation here is much better compared to the previous regulations that we received from this area from the Ministry of Finance and also from the Government itself when we had the situation that literally translated the directives and even the expressions that were not at all in Croatian legal terms were legally applied. However, I would like to draw attention to the need for amendments by the Government to respond to a few articles. The first is Article 2 in paragraph 5 of this Article, firstly the word regionally should not be placed in the bracket in front of it add the words of the area. It means harmonising with the legal expression of the Constitution. It is necessary to align the expression referred to in paragraph 2 with that referred to in paragraph 1 as it does not show whether the trueness control has to consider the control referred to in paragraph 1. This includes essential, accounting and logical. At the same time, Articles 4 and 5 of this Act should be referred to at the same time as Articles 5 and 6. Also in Articles 19 and 24, the text of whether the Government gives consent to the Regulation or the Government confirms the Regulation should be harmonised. And this also applies to the time of entry into force, so this law should also be published in "The People's Newspaper" and entered into force on 1 January 2006. So we expect the government to regulate it with its amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50003	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50004	I thank Mr. President, for what I say in politics came from the economy and who has been facing difficulties for years with different changes in accounting rules in the company, this law is very important and I am sorry, of course, to feel that when it comes to accounting, there is less attention than there are other laws, although the consequences of these provisions are very important for the business, the economy as a whole, and the overall state of one country in international competition, which is increasingly important in the growing globalisation, and therefore I am very pleased that those changes that will help us to choose, to comply with those standards that will be laid down by the Croatian Committee for Financial Reporting Standards, that we have one uniform management of accounting, that we have the option of choice, therefore, in those companies which are not ordered to use international financial standards, to choose, to comply with those standards that will be laid down by the Croatian Committee for Financial Reporting Standards and that this committee of Nine Members of the Court will be able to provide that the necessaryness of Croatian institutions in which, in which are recognised by the law, in which have the law, in which the law, in which the law, in which the law, in which the law, and in which the law, and in which provides the law, In order for these events to be monitored, of course, to have credible documents, and such documents are prescribed, and for the first time it is elaborated, which and what kind of documents must be kept for how many years, and this is therefore good, since we have great difficulties when people, for example. I'm glad that the pay lists and everything else must be kept permanently, because we have a lot of difficulties with companies that simply destroyed those papers because they should have kept them for about 10 years or I don't know how many years, and then people can't prove their rights or prove them very hard. So, in this part, order will be introduced, it will make it easier to get along and those who did not participate in business events, so those who want to see what the real state of business is when you think or put it on the market or when you think about buying it and of course that because we have so far had reporting and financial reports in accordance with international standards can therefore monitor the business of foreign companies in Croatia and therefore, of course, think about all the thousands and thousands of self-inflicted accounting workers who record all these events and then prepare financial reports that are just the top of the ice dream of that total job. So I believe that the whole of this law will allow one new, simpler, better and more business-profit and for businesses better practice. I thank Mr. Vice President and of course I will vote for this bill, and I hope, of course, he is welcome to all those who do this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50005	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50006	Fourth, the Final Proposal of the Accounting Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 96 votes for and six abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50007	And we're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Revision Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No.386 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal from the Act in the boxes pursuant to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the urgent procedure unites the first and second reading of the Law, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Does the Prime Minister's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A law that is closely related to this previous law that we have discussed, a law that has waited too long for its adoption, a law that has even led to the fact that it will no longer be possible if a company has an auditor's report that someone for these or for those reasons says I will call the audit to do it once more, but if it happens that someone has made an orderly report, then it will normally bear sanctions, so with the rest, and defines it. It also defines the position of international audit houses, as well as how they can work in Croatia, defines how audit houses in Croatia can be joined to work together. So we believe that the same law that has been reached between the auditors of the people who deal with this work, and that we have also satisfied the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. Therefore, the Audit Act lays down that the audit of the financial reports and consolidated financial reports of the persons providing audit services, the conditions for carrying out the audit, the Audit Committee, the establishment and operation of the Croatian Auditing Chamber, the supervision of its operations, the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors, the issuance and withdrawal of work permits, and other issues related to the audit. Who's doing the review? The audit shall be carried out by companies, i.e. an audit company and an independent auditor established as a craftsman. The audit firms and the independent auditors shall carry out the authorised auditors who have obtained the certificate, the authorised auditors may be exclusively employees of those entities. The audit company and the independent auditor must be allowed to work from the Croatian Audit Chamber and only then can they be entered in the court register of craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia. The audit may be carried out by audit firms with at least three quarters of voting rights, by audit firms or by authorised auditors, or at least three-quarters of the management members shall be authorised auditors. Foreign companies may perform audit services when establishing a branch in the Republic of Croatia in a manner prescribed by the Company Act. The audit shall be carried out in accordance with international audit standards. Once a year, the audit shall be subject to the financial reports of all stakeholders and companies with limited liability whose total revenue in the year preceding the audit exceeds 30 million kuna. The statutory annual audit shall be subject to banks, insurance companies, investment funds, pension funds, pension insurance companies, and special provisions companies, the consolidated report shall also be subject to the annual audit obligation. So, with companies that have more traffic than 30 million kuna, practically all non-banking financial institutions and it was a question on the board, and it might be good to say here on behalf of the proposings that the obligation to perform annual audits is subject to and leasing societies, and they belong to other companies under special provisions, but I am saying that since this question was on the Committee on Finance, it may not be too much to mention today that the Leesing societies are therefore subject to the obligation of annual audits. Companies with revenues of up to 30 million are subject to own rules, so they will determine how and how and after the time period they will audit their business. Authorised auditors are independent persons who have obtained a certificate from the Croatian Chamber. An authorised auditor may also be a foreign citizen to whom the Chamber nostifies a foreign document proving the knowledge of an authorised auditor. The examinations for an authorised auditor shall be subject to the Chamber programme to which the Ministry of Finance agrees. In addition to the audit firm, an independent auditor who performs audit services as his activity may also be established a joint audit office of 2 or more independent auditors. The provision of audit services shall be governed by a contract and audit firms and independent auditors shall be obliged to provide and renew insurance each year. For audit services, compensation shall be paid which cannot be less than the tariff prescribed by the Chamber with the consent of the Ministry of Finance. The audit committee for companies of public interest is prescribed to establish the Audit Committee, the public-interest company is companies whose securities are listed on the stock exchange. The first quotation is the quotation of public limited companies, banks and other financial institutions prescribed by these laws, companies of particular national interest whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. The audit committee shall monitor the implementation of the audit of financial reports, monitor the independence of the auditors, make recommendations to the Assembly on the selection of auditors, discuss internal audits and its reports, and carry out other tasks prescribed by this law. The Croatian Chamber of the Establishment and Labour of the Croatian Audit Chamber is prescribed by this Act and are the founders of the audit firms established under the now applicable Law on Audit of 1992. Therefore, as the previous 13 years, this law has unfortunately not followed the current changes on the financial market of the Republic of Croatia nor has it been harmonised. All the bodies of that jurisdiction and the tasks of the chamber shall be prescribed. The chamber shall be financed from the contribution of the membership fee and the fee for the submission of the examinations. Public powers shall be transferred to the chamber because it organises tests, issues certificates to authorised auditors and licences for the work of audit companies. It is therefore necessary to exercise public oversight over the work of the chamber carried out by the Ministry of Finance for the exercise of public oversight over the legality and regularity of the business of the chamber, two employees should be employed by the Ministry of Finance or entrusted to existing employees. The chambers shall be entrusted with a quality check of the work of audit companies, independent auditors and authorised auditors, quality and work checks, carried out by chamber staff who must have expertise and at least 10 years of work experience on the audit operations, appointed from the Administrative Council of the Chamber. The verification of the quality of audit firms shall be carried out every 6 years or every 3 years in the case of audit firms carrying out audits of public-interest entities. The law lays down the conditions for obtaining a licence for the work of an audit firm and an independent auditor and under which conditions may be withdrawn. The conditions for the registration and removal of the register of the chambers of independent auditors and the authorised auditors are laid down, and all the registers of the chamber are required to work. And criminal provisions and proposals and final provisions that prescribe transitional solutions until the adoption of this Act are laid down. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget also proposes one amendment to Article 4 which reads: "International audit firms may carry out audit services in the Republic of Croatia when they establish a supporter in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Commercial Society on the Work of Foreign Auditing Companies shall apply the provisions of this Act on the basis of mutual reciprocity between the Republic of Croatia, EU Member States and third countries. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment of the Committee and it practically becomes an integral part of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50009	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here's a few words of support for this law. The audits, by their definition, the examination process and the evaluation of financial reports, data and methods used in drawing them up, on the basis of which an expert opinion is given on the reality and objectivity of the financial situation of the performance of the business, the cash flows of a particular company, or what the audit controls. On the basis of these audit reports, business decisions are further made very important for the business of the company, for those in which it is linked, how to make a decision with customers, with suppliers, with banks, with investors, with employees of local and regional self-government, etc. So, in very many places in our country. The role of the revision is therefore of exceptional importance, both for business and development of the companies themselves and for the development of the environment in which they operate, so you can say the economy as a whole. In order to achieve all tasks and objectives in an appropriate and effective way, it is important that its work and development are based on an appropriate legal basis. The current revision law since 1992 is complete, incomplete, therefore unclear, does not address some very important issues such as. under the first independence of the auditors in carrying out the audit of their work and their audit firms. It's a question of minimum tariffs, insurance and the like. I would mention that according to the Revision Act, this Law has caused a lot of problems and has not dealt with some very important things, for example. Over the work of auditors and audit firms, the withdrawal of work permits and minimum tariffs, and often it happened that some companies provided their services in the range of 5 thousand kunas and up to 5 million kunas. Some audit firms show total income of 45 million kuna and even up to 53 million kuna. I would mention some more, many companies are not registered under the Audit Act were, judges of commercial courts when registering were held... It's the Revision Act that a large part of the company works without the Ministry's permission, by the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a letter from the Ministry of Finance of 95, it was said that during 93 and 94 years, and 95 years, the Ministry of Finance granted work permits to audit firms even those who failed to comply with the legal requirements of registration and, if they do not have such evidence, they considered that the work permit was not valid. This has not been verified, so it is welcome that this bill that will introduce much more order into this profession. Meanwhile, the strengthening of Croatia's approach policy to the European Union has also raised the question of bringing new legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the legal framework, i.e. guidelines relating to the business of the audit. There was even one recommendation that, which has been expected since last year, the Law should wait for the process to take place on the conscience of experts and representatives of the World Bank and of the European Commission, which is precisely why this proposal was withdrawn and was suggested to wait for the adoption of new guidelines of the European Union that were just expected in October 2005. And that's how we got that bill now. After long preparations, the Final Proposal for this Revision Act was drawn up. The harmonisation and preparation of the Law used European Union materials is primarily a green paper which determines the role, position and responsibility of the statutory auditor within the European Union and the latest 8 Directives and recommendations of the European Commission. The new Law is now largely in line with European rules more fully and clearly and as in all modern countries including Slovenia, it protects the audit profession with its non-discriminatory character. The law is also much more liberal in terms of, for example, that now authorised auditors from the member states of the European Union can set up companies and work in Croatia, of course, on the condition that they know the Croatian language and legislation particularly from the field of accounting, finance, audit, rights of companies and tax law. But on the other hand, both Croatian audit firms and independent auditors have committed themselves to register and obtain appropriate work permits. Furthermore, an obligation to monitor and verify the quality of the work of audit firms and independent auditors has been prescribed by the staff of the chamber, which is also authorised auditors but independent of the audit firm in which they exercise supervision. It is also important that the work of the chamber is also subject to supervision by the Ministry of Finance. In short. These and many other changes here will introduce significantly more order in the audit profession and more public confidence in the audit reports. I'd like to mention another curiosity. It was very much done, and all that was forbidden in Europe in our country were some reputed names in previous development that realized that it was allowed. So it's so-called. The world-renowned companies with sound names and capital from Cyprus, we have about 80 audits of these large systems and banks and have employed 8 authorised auditors. And they gave jobs to rent where the auditor's independence was completely lost at a far lower price than it was normally prescribed. That's what this law prevented, right. Since business decisions of the administration rely largely on audit reports, the importance of the audit is expanded because these decisions often also affect the economic development of a particular area, employment or the development of society as a whole, which gives the audit the character of the profession of public interest. I mention that it is particularly important to look from the point of view of the city of Zagreb we have 23 large companies, and I think it is really instructive and important that the audits in these companies and of course in the local self-government unit but it is not disputed exactly because of the State Audit and that it is not a matter of one purchase that is obtained at the lowest price but at just the right quality. Therefore, we at the HNS Club support the adoption of this Law on Audition, as supported by all relevant professional organisations and associations from the Croatian Association of Employers, the Croatian Community of Accountants and Financial Employees, the Croatian Association of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, whose representatives together with the representatives of the profession and worked on the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50011	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Before that, I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Gordan Sobol, called a committee meeting today at 13:30 at the Eugen Quaternika Hall. 233. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50012	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! These two laws, since these previous and current laws were passed only in 1992 or even in 1992, actually survived, could almost be said themselves. And through application and operation, they caused a lot of doubt and I would even say mess in that area. Which means the Accounting Act and the Audit Act are sufficient in the introduction to say only one basic thought that, in fact, after the adoption of the financial plan at the beginning of the year or the budget at the beginning of the year, it follows their spending and records through the Accounting Act. Finally, all this should be drawn up by financial reports and those reports should be well audited. Why do you have a good revision? I'll only remind you of two last cases that have shaken the world. Enron and Parmalat Italian. For Enron especially Parmalat had a similar. It is also a reminder and interesting lesson for us through the Investment Funds Act. They themselves had many funds that had gone bankrupt together just for the sake of a false audit report and for a completely different state than that shown in the books. And therefore the teaching that the Accounting Act and the Revision Act are extremely significant. Small and similar examples are unfortunately found in Croatia, and there will likely be attempts. Here, for this reason, this law and its compliance with the current current European practice mean a complete newspaper in our space, and therefore we believe in the HDZ Club that this law will not cause it, especially if it is consistent with the profession of any particular controversy and that it is of interest to all to bring it forward as soon as possible and to apply it as soon as possible. But here are a few reasons why the fundamentals repeat once again why this law actually means a complete change in this area. The audit services under the proposed law will be able to carry out the first ones they will be able to carry out because they were previously regulated by the Accounting and Audit Law and now, in a different way, this law regulates and says that this service will be able to be performed by auditors and independent auditors while under the applicable law, I say who could have done so far and how, it was differently prescribed. The audit shall then be carried out by audit firms in which at least three quarters of voting rights are held by audit firms or authorised auditors which meet the conditions in accordance with the provisions of this Act. In the administration also in a similar proportion, at least one member's management must be authorised auditors who meet the requirements laid down by this law and audit shall also be carried out by independent auditors who are also authorised auditors. And the next person from abroad can conduct surveillance. It is prescribed that foreign audit firms may carry out audits in the Republic of Croatia if they establish branches here or in accordance with the provisions of Article 612. The Company Act. Here, this amendment that we gave to the Committee on Finance, we actually wanted to take advantage of, in some way, that eighth direction in our opinion, and to say that it would be a certain reciprocity where possible so that we wouldn't have the possibility that possibly some of the Shore companies in that area would enter uncontrollably into our area. There is a certain difference in the determination of legal review in relation to the existing Audit Act or the Accounting Act. The obligation to revise financial reports is now determined by the Accounting Act in such a way that mandatory audits are subject to one year and now not to repeat the whole story, so that's regulated by the Accounting Act. It is now necessary to connect it uniquely and uniquely and to perform it under the prescribed conditions. Who is now subject to that obligation. The statutory audit obligation should be laid down by the Law on Audit and not by the Accounting Act, and therefore the provisions of the bill shall be incorporated into the provisions of the provisions of the bill to be subject to the financial statements of all companies, companies and companies with limited liability whose annual total income exceeds 30 million kunas, insurance companies, investment funds, pension funds, pension insurance companies and companies under special regulations. That's exactly what I said about Enron and Parmalate from the introduction, given that many of them had these societies. Here someone may ask the question why absolutely determine the amount of 30 million because it can change that amount over time, then it implies changing the law and harmonisation. However, it agreed that this would be some sort of lower limit that should come from. The proposal of the Accounting Act, which is also in the procedure, does not determine the obligation to carry out the audit, rather than to regulate business entirely differently. The proposal for the Revision Act gave the possibility to review and foreign citizens after, here was the question whether, under what conditions, whether they should know the laws, they should not know the laws. Finally, this law has been extremely well regulated, it is finally necessary to nostrate documents, know Croatian language and know the laws to be revised on the Croatian financial market. Therefore, that provision is finally included in full. And perhaps to point out that the proposal for a company law of public interest is prescribed to set up an audit board. We heard what it was like not to repeat both structure and composition and everything. And I will also point out that up until now, two audit associations, the Croatian Association of Auditors and the Benedikt Kotruljević Association, have been registered until the adoption of the law in Croatia. However, after this, it is likely that new roles of the chamber will also likely be changed in this area and unification in the issue of certificates and surveillance of work and jobs, of course and the withdrawal of such certificates later. Therefore, this law in a completely new way regulates this extremely significant area of review because, in our society through these twelve years, thirteen years of the existing law have been the subject of various activities on this matter and especially as auditors such have often done audit or audit reports in the manner that the one to be audited has ordered. And so, this is a significant paper, a significant shift for the better, and we therefore hold that the HDZ Club will absolutely support and vote and I believe that others have no reason not to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50013	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50014	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is most important that the law achieves its purpose to determine, therefore, the entities, which are persons who can be auditors, as well as their control. Because what is required of the revision is precisely the reliability of their reports, their findings and their creation, the achievement of public trust. That's usually the case with all the witches and all the auditors of key importance. And that is why I think it is necessary to support the amendment drawn up by the Committee on Finance, which, right now and on behalf of the HDZ Club, was spoken by a colleague of the Prvenjač. This is how the existing Article 4 of the proposal in paragraph 2 does not show under which conditions and in which way foreign audit firms may also carry out audits. In particular, if the applicant and the call is already made and almost all the provisions are in line with the materials which, from the European Union and the Green Paper, and then other materials used in this proposal, I consider it necessary to point out that exactly and how, in the European Union, on 28 September this year, the eighth Directive of the Commercial Law on Legal Audit, which just defines that most of the voting rights and most of the governing bodies must be kept by authorised auditors. Therefore, as set out in this proposal, Article 4 does not give rise to the above adopted views of the European Union, or they are not explicitly and defined, to the effect that foreign audit firms operating in the Republic of Croatia would not be subject to the supervision of the Chamber. Check the quality of the work, and even then those tight measures, as well as the other provisions prescribed by this proposal concerning all auditors and, above all, domestic auditors. That's why I think right from the point of view of equality but also the controlability that it is strong, that it is crucial to respect this amendment. And something else that seems important to me. The revision can accomplish its task, therefore, and only if it is completely independent. Therefore, it seems to me to be a little questionable provision of Article 42(5), subparagraph 5, which provides that in the exercise of public oversight, the Ministry of Finance considers that there are certain irregularities and irregularities that it may disband the administrative council and replace the President if it determines serious irregularities in the work of the body. That is, if they fail to comply with their legal obligations after the warning. At first glance, nothing seems controversial. However, giving such authority to the Ministry of Finance may also cause some doubts as to whether it is to be tolerated, tolerate certain irregularities in certain auditors or some minor, some minor irregularities in this way for some reasons which may be intransparent to the public have been disbanded by the Governing Council. It seems precisely to me that the public trust, and so does the Chamber, yes, it seems to me that it may be possible to think about this aspect, and in any case respect for the legality and not only of the auditors, but also of all the other experts, I think it is crucial and it is very, very important to sharpen it as a question of the responsibility of those persons to whom they are given by the law of great authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50015	Thank you very much. We only have one correction, then. Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50016	Mr. Vice President, I must correct the incorrect allegations of colleague Anticevic that it should define who might be the authorised auditor because it is not true. It is already correctly stated in Article 7 that an authorised auditor is an independent professional who has obtained a certificate. In order to obtain a certificate, the following conditions must be met. So clearly: higher education, 3 years of work experience. It must have an exam for an authorised auditor, it must be actively used in Croatian language, speech and letter, it must have Croatian citizenship and must have proof that it is not legally convicted of crimes against security, payment and business. And secondly, which is not true, therefore, that the Chamber will not have jurisdiction over those established under Article 4(2). So the Chamber will have and has, according to the proposal of this Act, control over all those involved in the audit affairs in Croatia and those parts of foreign companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50017	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50018	Well, Article 209 was violated because a colleague was correcting something that I had not said at all, and you did not listen at all to the context in which I was speaking. Then you are not familiar with the guidelines of the European Union that the Proposer is talking about. ... So listen to it till the end. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50019	Yeah, uh... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivan Shuker will address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So just to make it clear what Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović said was not an independence of the Chamber unless she had any control over herself. So this is only about the Management Council of the Chamber. Since all institutions have some kind of supervision, we cannot leave one institution that is an association of those who control, so without supervision. This is where you can disband the Administrative Council but the Chamber. So this has nothing to do with the independence of auditors, audit companies, audit firms, audit craftsmen. But you have to leave the institute so that someone can change that board, listen, you can say a group of people who can do whatever they want because there's practically no one above them. So here it's exclusively about the Board of Directors of the Chamber where it's exactly defined if certain illegalities occur because look, it would also mean that there is virtually no one here over this Agency for the Control of the Non-bank Financial Sector. There's got to be someone above someone that if they do some kind of irregularity that they can warn them, shifts and so on. So the intensity of the Ministry of Finance is what is most important and what I would like to point out that these two laws and the Accounting Act and the Audit Act are in line with the profession. They're in sync with people who do that job. And that may be the greatest quality of these laws. So they agreed with such a provision, and I must say that in these working groups, when none of these auditors were discussed has expressed any objection to this provision. In fact, everyone agrees because everyone is aware in principle that when we go into extreme and positive, negatively, it can just happen that one group of people in the Chamber can do virtually whatever they want without having control of it. So it's just one control instrument that this, that can't happen one such extreme behavior. But I repeat this provision has been agreed by auditors, so the people who are doing this work and to which they will apply. This is the end, most importantly, they will be the founders and members of the Chamber tomorrow and this Chamber will oversee them. Well, here I am saying that I wanted to explain precisely because of this notion of independence that this provision does not apply either to audit companies or auditors or to auditors who will receive permission under this law to work in Croatia, but exclusively to the Administrative Council of the Auditory Chamber. Therefore, they are exclusively covered by this provision. I ask you to respect this because I say this is ultimately a common conclusion and people from the profession and people to whom this law will apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50021	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Ivana Sucec the Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for what I said in general and for the Accounting Act, I would like to underline, therefore, that this Audit Law is very important, that it solves an area that is extremely important, and in my opinion alone, it might be a good thing that we had it ten years ago. So, if we hadn't had some problems with the revision in conversion and privatisation, even though we heard from Mr. Squirt who listed the internationals, so I say the failures of the revision that we're not the exception so in possible evil uses, that it happens everywhere in the world. But by adopting this law, which if we see it enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the People's Newspaper, it will be brought into effect very quickly. Therefore, that this law will reduce such a possible number of evil uses to the minimum possible extent since it clearly defines who is subject to the audit, in which way it is carried out and who can carry out that audit with the sasma clearly defined and therefore the conditions which must be met but also the obligations that must be met, and also the three-stage control mechanism. So we have an auditor, we have a chamber and the Ministry of Finance, and then in that tripartite division responsibility can always control the chamber that unites all those involved in the audit. Therefore, what makes it certain that this law will also be carried out carefully and responsibly through criminal provisions which therefore state that the audit company and the responsible person in the audit company and the independent auditor are also responsible for one infringement, with penalties ranging from 20000 kuna to 100000 kuna for the company, from 2000 to 10000 for the responsible person and from 5000 to 10000 for the independent auditor cumulatively. Therefore, these high financial penalties will probably not impair those who might want to please those who order audits to make non-indicative reports, therefore reports that do not comply with business documents in a particular company. Therefore, I adhere to all those who welcome and who will vote in favour of this Audit Act, and since the profession also wants those who do this job fairly to be carried out on the principles of familiar terms and known financial amounts that should be paid, because a certain tariff as it is in the law profession will be prescribed. A tariff to be applied, to be controlled by the Ministry of Finance and evened for the whole country. So, I hope that from the application of this law, through the follow-up of implementation and through the reports that we will be able to see in this House, there will be much less riots and much more accurate audits, so that it will serve to make the right decision on the future fate of individual companies, and therefore confirm those reports that already exist on the market for these companies if they are on the market. I thank Mr. Vice President and, of course, I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50023	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50024	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the motion. The audit shall be a process of verifying and assessing the financial statements of the auditor, and of the data and methods used in the drawing up of the financial reports and on the basis of which an expert and independent opinion is given on the truthfulness and objectivity of the financial situation, the results of the financial statements and the cash flow. This law therefore seeks to fully regulate the issue of doing this important job in our economy in the Republic of Croatia. But of course, given the processes in which Croatia is located and this area is aligned with European Union legislation. I think it really is a quality proposal that all the participants of the debate mentioned in their discussions and the audit services, unlike what was so far, will also be able to perform independent auditors in addition to the audit companies. The audit shall be carried out by those auditors who have a certificate from an authorised auditor and who are employees of either an audit firm or self-employed. In particular, what is important and what needs to be highlighted and stressed in this proposal for a law is the independence of an auditor with one important objective, a presumption and a tendency to create a real, complete public trust in the reliability of audit reports and in the reliability of those who carry out this important work. So far, the obligation to carry out the audit has been determined by the Accounting Act in such a way that mandatory audits are subject to the financial reports of all large and medium-sized enterprises once a year, if they are, of course, organised as stock companies, and small entrepreneurs as shareholders had an obligation to reduce their audit every third year. All others, regardless of their size, had an obligation to make audit reports as prescribed by their acts, i.e. their statutes, and there it can be suspected that anything could really happen in real life and in real business. The provisions of this Bill proposal, i.e. the final draft of the law, provide for the annual audit to be subject to reports by all stakeholders, commandants and companies with limited liability, whose total income exceeds 30 million kuna, and by banks, insurance companies, investment funds, pension funds, pension insurance companies and other companies under special regulations. The adoption of this law will cover around 3200 companies in the Republic of Croatia, of which 1469 shareholders. The supervision and verification of the quality of the work of audit firms as well as independent auditors shall be carried out at least once every six years, and every third year, if those companies carry out a review of companies of public interest, it shall regulate the issue of the establishment and operation of the Croatian Audit Office which will carry out that verification. The Croatian Audit Office will organise and conduct education, issue certificates for authorised auditors, so as to exercise supervision over the work of companies and independent auditors. It will issue, confiscate and renew the work permits of audit companies and it is required to keep a register of audit companies, independent auditors and authorised auditors. And I think it is also important to mention some of the elements that are important for those who are doing audit work so far. The authorised auditors who have received the certificate under the Audit Act shall be deemed to have obtained the conditions for the appointment of an authorised auditor and shall, within 6 months of the date of establishment of the Chamber, be obliged to submit an application for registration in the register of authorised auditors. Those auditors who, within a short period of time, do not submit a request for registration in the register, or whose decision the entry of the Chamber shall be rejected shall cease to be a certificate and shall no longer be able to carry out the audit. I think it would be good to explain here when it is possible to refuse the issue of that certificate, or criteria, because the preceding article, or the statement of automation, says that all those who have acquired this right under the current law and have obtained that certificate that it is now being issued to them by automation. And in paragraph 4, it is said here that those who are denied the registration by the Chamber of Commons, the right to cease to be worth it, so I think it would be important to clarify it here, if nothing else for the public to know when and whom that certificate may be rejected. Otherwise, I repeat again, I think this law is a good proposal and I will support it for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50025	Thank you very much. And as last in the debate, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50026	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. These two laws, which we discussed on one occasion, and now on the proposal of the Revision Act, make one common whole very important for the functioning of the overall supervision that must exist in relation to companies, whether they are part of it or not, but they are not only of this aspect of importance. It is also important, then, to create a new environment in society and a bit of a devastating fact that almost by saying after each government's replacement, almost comes into the rule of changing the way reports were conducted for individual companies, especially state-owned. What do I want to say? There was a huge discrepancy in terminology, in the techniques of conduct, and in the content which was the subject of audit reports which, the houses that were authorised for review worked on the evaluation, had in some company been successful in the past year, there been irregularities, which was the criterion for establishing certain standards for nomcling certain items in the assessment of the situation in a particular company. So that the newspaper, not only these years but also this practice existed, often competed simply in who would bring in the new auditory house to establish a new audit report for a particular company and to create an alibi to say that the management body, meaning the director or the management who represented the company were not good or to prove otherwise, were good. Such a fact has, of course, diminished and relativeized the seriousness, importance and role of the audit houses. That is why I believe that this proposal for the Revision Act is brought by a newspaper that will in any case standardise and strengthen the principle of action of all the audit houses based on those European directives to which this bill is called. That the new practice that will be implemented in Croatia under this proposal of the Law will be far more successful, more uniform, and that it will not question anyone that the evaluation of the audit reports may be subject to political pressures in order to show the situation in the company or the assessment of the work of a particular management president such or such. Of course, it didn't happen everywhere and always, but there are. The public recorded it, the newspapers were in business, speculation existed. Therefore, I believe this bill is a good way to close that page. Whether a new way of doing so will also help foreign citizens who have IDs, whose IDs need to be nostrified by a competent institution, from knowledge of Croatian language further, to strengthen the role of auditors' houses. That this independence extended to the possibility that foreign audit houses and foreign citizens can do audit work, will it further strengthen the importance of audit houses? We just need to see about that. Because you know, who can't find a domestic auditor can reach out to their foreign auditor, anything is possible. But this should be discussed openly and it should be hoped that the prescribed supervision of the Chamber body, the way in which the consent will be given, the way in which the quality of the work of audit firms and independent auditors will be checked, the way in which the Croatian audit chamber will be established, and the overall operation of these independent bodies, will respond to whether we can expect the audit reports to be completely removed from the possible influence of the policy and any form of government, how much time it will take to do so and how good the instruments of this bill help it simply happen as soon as possible. Because competition on the domestic and world market absolutely contributes to the creation of a serious legal framework in which there will be no possibility that anyone's discretion on any basis can do something that is not in line with the interests of the job, which is not in line with the law. Discretion as such should be removed from economic life. The role of politics is to adopt good laws, to fight for the instruments of this law to be enforceable and to fight for possible misunderstandings or disagreements that arise to be removed in a way that can be done and should be done. But never by direct interference in things that are not subject to interest by politicians or by any authority. I therefore hope that this proposal of a law which is precise, which is in line with European directives and which, above all, I think should be in the interest of Croatian businessmen and Croatian society, will help to ensure that the services of audit houses are in favour of these companies, because they are actually serving them, they are not a limiting factor, but rather the opposite. They are the leaders that the future of the economic position of individual companies could be successfully planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50027	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50028	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Markov said that after any change of government, there is a different interpretation of the audit reports. The audit reports include expert reports, reports on the financial operations of companies and not on political reports, and I don't know where he gets such information. He may have thought reports on the budgets of local self-government units, but that's not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50029	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50030	Final proposal of the Audit Act, P.Z. number 386. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Minister Shuker please be clear on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50031	Mr. President, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50032	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against adoption, passed the law along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50033	We should now move to item 9 of the revised agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land, but the parent board failed to discuss this law this morning. He scheduled a session at 13:30, and then we'd switch this agenda point from, say, 15.00 hours... It's not the parent board, it's the other committees, but the parent board isn't, so we'll temporarily move to the 10th item of the agenda, or we'll move to the 10th point of the agenda. - Proposal for a decision to appoint a child counsel is the Proposer, in accordance with Article 4. Law on the Ombudsman for children, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50034	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For the Croatian government, the institution of the Ombudsman for children is of paramount importance. After the protesting resignation of the former Ombudsman for children and all of her assistants, this extremely important place remained vacant, so the government proposed to the Croatian Assembly, in accordance with the Law on Child Advocates, to appoint a doctor of science Mrs. Ksenija Butorac from Zagreb as the new Ombudsman for children. Her résumé, which you received in the paper, confirms that the proposed person is a doctor of science in the field of education science, that after her doctorate she continued her studies, with professional training, with the acquisition of numerous skills and that her experience guarantees that she will perform the responsibilities of the Ombudsman for children in a legal manner with the full trust of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Croatian Government who proposed her. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that the Government's proposal be accepted and the Ombudsman appointed for children of the Republic of Croatia in order for this important constitutional order institution to function in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50035	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50036	I thank Mr. Vice-President and, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, I express of course support and great satisfaction that will be appointed very quickly according to this proposal, the Ombudsman for children, who will continue to work on the welfare of children, so that area of our society for which the Croatian Democratic Community has exceptional sensitivity, and, of course, the Croatian Government, which proves by course by a series of its support measures, we brought, yesterday we discussed the budget, so we will also be more funds for 2006, so that through the establishment of family centres where support for programmes for children and young people is increased by 26 thousand percent, so it is almost €9.5 million where the children's defendership is also given 15% higher than in 2005. So it will have more than 3.5 million kunas, so the appointment of a top person who will take care of that office and implement programmes on the welfare of children according to the Law on Defence, I think that the overall state of affairs can never be achieved perfection, improve and that child care will have an increasingly important function in our society and result therefore and better relations in the family, in society, in schools and in all those segments where children, and we had opportunities to listen to children who are involved in forums in different counties, in which way they are considering their role in society and how adults should not only by passing laws but also by implementing these laws, therefore, allow children to live decently in Croatia, which is also the goal of the Croatian Democratic community. So I am very pleased to say that the science doctor Ksenija Butorac is fulfilling everything a man, or woman who will take over that function, and her personal data suggests that she was born in Grazac, that she lives in a family with a wife and two adult sons, that she has acquired an excellent education from the classical gymnasium in Zadar through the Faculty of Security and Self-protection where she obtained a degree in legal crime, that she has mastered the same university in the field of criminal sciences, that she has doctored all the advanced degrees of neurolinguistic psychotherapy, and that there is an ongoing procedure for the selection of a scientific associate in front of the University's scientific committee in Zagreb for the scientific field of educational sciences in the field of social sciences and that of defetology. That she was a member of different Croatian and international associations, that her working career is also respectable, that she worked as an official of the general criminality in the police department, that she was an assistant and lecturer at the Faculty of Criminal Sciences of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, that she was a criminal analyst in the Department of Crime, Drugs of the Police Administration of Zagreb, that she was an expert associate at the Centre for the Prevention of the Dependence of the City of Zagreb Institute of Public Health, that she was involved in advisory and psychotherapy work with clients, convicted addicts within the framework of the Croatian Association for Crime and Educational Rehabilitation of the University of Zagreb programme, and that she was also consulting and psychotherapy work with clients in the framework of a programme carried out in the cooperation of the Croatian Association with the Institute in Vienna. That she is the author of 11 scientific and professional papers, and 16 exhibitions at international and domestic, scientific and professional meetings. That she has different professional activities, that she is the author and head of the programme for increasing the safety and psychosocial health of the secondary population in complementary cooperation with institutions in the local community, that she is the author and head of the primary and secondary prevention programme of drug abuse and other forms of unacceptable child acceptance in the primary schools of the City of Zagreb, approved by the Office for Health, Labour and Social Care of the City of Zagreb. That she is co-author and head of part of the programme after the penal treatment of convicts, that she is head of part of the UFO's efficiency research programme, that she is head of the expert Committee for the Monitoring of the work of the Valdorf School in Zagreb, that she is head of the expert team in order to increase safety in primary school. That she is involved in education of experts in education in education, health, social care and justice with more than 200 lectures and that she has performed in several or more public television and radio shows. To deal with different teaching activities and to have recognised scientific research projects and to rule actively from two sides of the language, passively with another 2, so by 4. So, that its scientific works, professional works, working career and everything else gives the dignity of a person who will be able to carry out professionally those laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which, of course, the Croatian Democratic Community is satisfied with, will lead to the improvement of the state of children in Croatian society. I thank Mr. Vice President and the Croatian Democratic Union will vote in favour of the appointment of Ms. Ksenija Butorac, doctor of science for the child's attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50037	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50038	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. My speech will not be like the speech of the HDZ Club. Normally, we all agreed at the last session when we discussed the resolution of the former Ombudsman for children that there are a considerable number of problems in this area that are slowly and escalating both for child abuse and for all the other situations that happen from day to day. It is normal that we cannot have this important institution for the functioning and protection of children's rights unfulfilled with leaders. But it's also incomprehensible for us at the HSP Club why we're going in this way to appoint a lawyer to the future. Why didn't we go on a public call? Which is why the competent committees of the Croatian Parliament, say the Committee on Selection and Designation, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports as competent, did not have the opportunity to conduct an interview, means at least to conduct an interview. So we don't know who it's about. I got the impression the lady was late, I don't know if she knew her. I don't know if the secretary of state knows her. And we have to have what here now? Guarantee, guarantee that she'll be able to handle it successfully. So, guarantee, but to get us a guarantee, we need to know if the parent committees have a positive view. Because we still can't bring it this way. There's a situation here that's true better than a jury judge. For jury judges, we don't even have a life record. At least we have a résumé here. Now, you've read that part of my résumé, and I'm gonna say that I have that former government project from college to work, and here's the case from retirement to work. There's a pension-to-work case here. I don't know, ma'am, I don't mind, the club has nothing against her. But look, she's 60 years old and retired on December 31st, 97th, she writes on her own request at 37 years of age, or at 14 years of effective employment. And then there is another note, which is the case of what Mr Karamarko has done in time, that all who were close to the police or besides the police have received the status of defenders and says that she has a property, says retired on her own request, with the recognised status of Croatian defender from 30 May 90th to 30th June 96th. And now, looking at the résumé and stuff, so she had the status of Croatian defender, she would now get the status of attorney for children. But at the same time she also mastered and did all the other things. And when they asked President Mesic why he couldn't be in Vukovar, he said he couldn't change the laws of physics because I was in Germany at the time. But here the situation is completely different. It seems that President Mesic's statement is not correct then. Because that she was on the battlefield at the same time, if she had the status of Croatian defender, but she also mastered and doctored. So, what does this all indicate? This all points out that we cannot go this unseriously to appoint a new person and I think it is smarter, it is smarter to make a public call, to see who will answer everything and then the relevant bodies, and the Government but certainly the Croatian Parliament. Because be careful, the Croatian Parliament appoints. He doesn't appoint a government, the government proposes. So it must be acquired as an example for the Constitutional Court judges, right? The committee responsible shall conduct the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and shall conduct an interview with the people. He talks, he suggests, and then we get a whole other picture. So we have nothing against Mrs. Xenia Butorac, but we have no guarantee that she will be able to behave successfully. Look out, she hasn't worked since 97. So it's out of the way. Officially retired, therefore, that's a big problem. Let's not deal with these things this unseriously, and if we look at what other expertise might be, yet this is about this part of criminal science in, I think it's over in Skopje, that college doesn't matter. She's a master's degree at college, yeah. It doesn't matter in Skopje, but it's not exactly an area of child protection and rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50039	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50040	Inaccurately, Mr Kovacevic claimed that the lady had to be on the battlefield to gain the status of Croatian defender. So there are many who have gained the status of Croatian defenders who have not been on the front line of the battlefield but... Yeah, yeah, and there are those categories, so the first line and there's the other category. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, there is a law on the status of the Croatian defender, and I must say it publicly and aloud. I have to say clearly and loudly to the lady I don't know, but what it says here, so I suppose it's credible, that it's true, and for me it's respectable. Therefore, it is not true that the lady did nothing and that she was retired but is shown to have taken advantage of the possibility, therefore, of using that pension but that she also worked intensively and multiplely on well-being, therefore, the public and for the general good in various associations, internationally recognised projects, and here in the City of Zagreb. And so, now, today, there's been an election in scientific knowledge of a scientific associate...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50041	Thank you very much, we heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50042	... University of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50043	On behalf of the Club of HSLS, DC and LS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50044	Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that the Parliament does not actually use its own possibilities of rights, but this is how we really get into a situation where we discuss ad hominem, it's never nice. I also wouldn't want to question the résumé and everything behind Mrs. Xenia Butorac, and there's really no reason not to believe the allegations she's making here. What's really good, which is that we're the heiress of these new rights, these are the rights of these weak so-called. Subjects, that our society is sensitive to the right of the child and that we are trying to solve it institutionally, but I don't think it's good when we're really just respecting the form and I have this impression, and you're denying me if I'm wrong in that impression that we're actually this job just to do it. It is an important institution, an important place, and unfortunately we have bad experiences and it is shown that really in no way has it worked before and I say we have had this negative experience and precisely because of this negative experience with the last attorney, the old one should still approach the kudikam more seriously, otherwise what counterpart Pero Kovacevic suggested it is so-called. "hiering" to which the Parliament is right, and I don't see why we don't use this very institute. We have it seems we only seem to be for diplomats, for our ambassadors, then the competent parliamentary body then runs and has an interview with these people, somehow getting one picture of candidates who are proposed for such important places. Here's my colleague Kovacevic reminded me there's something like that for the Constitutional Court judges, but then we're actually stopping now. If we have our parliamentary bodies, committees, I think these committees need to be in office and one of these functions really, really, in order for nothing to really be done with a very short, but very important interview with the candidates. The same when only one candidate is proposed then it always has a little bit of an ugly impression, that one when it can be the best and great away from it, but I really believe that in Croatia there are people who could do very well and precisely because of ourselves, because we are now taking responsibility for our uplifting, or voting for this candidate, we will in some way also cover the mandate of Mrs. Butorac and which I say we must believe that she wants to do well, but the same thing would be very good to hear that we see what actually, which is her program, which is offered. I will not enter whether the study of crime, postgraduate studies, is an ideal study for this place, after all I see the doctorate is from a completely different, or an area that is closer to this problem, but also it would be really good to introduce this practice, which, by definition, belongs to Parliament, which is this short interview that would enable and give God more candidates to be one and some to say can be that targeted competition, so I would call a few people and then I would believe that we would find it easier and easier to stand behind the candidate for which committee, or which committee I would propose to this House. At this point, indeed, I do not know Mrs. Butorac, there is no reason to say not to raise my hand for her choice, but I say there remains a bitter impression that it could have been different, and I think it would have been more appropriate for the candidate herself to say that she is really passing that one very much still seems to be a benign filter, an interview which, indeed, would have been seen what she is planning to do, how she is exactly experiencing and which is precisely her relationship with that fact that the rights of the child are something that not only our own but even the world's public is sensible. It is good that there is also a very strong pressure on the public, on the media, on organizations dealing with this problem, and we really can't care which person we give the green light to be. Well, I'm just saying it's that mild remark or suggestion and I think it could have been done and there's still a chance that if our practice so far isn't good that we're changing it recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50045	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50046	Yes, I will listen to Mr Kramarić's cry and request who said several times deny me that this is a choice for choice or satisfaction of form, so I will say so. So it's not. If that had been the case then the Croatian government would have filled the Ombudsman's post the second day after the former resigned and after the parliament had accepted, however, it has given itself enough time to find a quality person, and it is only a form that allows. So that's Article 4(1). The Law on the Ombudsman, which says the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament, is a form, and indeed found a person who meets not form but really all the conditions to carry out the job in quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50047	Thank you. It is obvious that these remarks that the committees of the Parliament should have an opinion there, but it should be prescribed, it is not prescribed. Therefore, I think that the initiative should go to prescribe that this appointment actually implements this procedure and I believe that there would be no such remarks, but let's move on. On behalf of the IDS club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I agree with Mr. Vice President that the working bodies should discuss the appointments of such an important member at the head of an institution even more important. I am normally in the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and I am the chair of the Subcommittee on Human Rights and we have had the previous Ombudsman's resignation debate on this subject, and I really believe that there is a debate to be held, even if we have one candidate and, of course, it is not good for democracy that we have only one candidate, and I also believe that committees would discuss the competence of each person proposed. The IDS Club cannot support Mrs. Ksenija Butorac's proposal for the Ombudsman for children for a number of reasons. First of all, we believe that the former Ombudsman had the same qualifications and did well, but the problem of course was in the institutions that were to monitor her work, and I don't see that anything has changed. Her team did a good job and even took over other competences that other institutions needed to do in monitoring and promoting and protecting children’s rights. These institutions that were tasked with protecting the interests of children were very slow, their practice of slowness and tromency and lack of engagement I believe that they will also follow the new lawyer in her work and that the situation is serious and we thought that the responsible ministry should invite all the services responsible for these jobs to find solutions in order to help every child in the Republic of Croatia, and to remind you that our Law on the Ombudsman for children determines the part-time work of the Ombudsman for children and, among other things, emphasizes that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman for children must apply all the rules relating to the protection and rights and interests of children, follow the implementation of individual children's rights and study of general phenomena, ways of violation of rights and children's interests. They also propose to take measures to build a complete system of protection and promote the right to the interests of children and to prevent harmful actions that threaten children's rights and interests. And of course, they inform the public about the state of children's rights. That's why I gave the opening statement because we believe that the attorney can't enforce what the law tells him to do. I'm not going to enter whether the proposed candidate is qualified or not, although I think there may be a shortage in practice, in working with children because we see that she worked with troubled groups that may not be directly related to children's rights, but my God, we only have one candidate and I don't think I see any reasonable exit or solution from this problem. So once again, I point out that we in IDS cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50049	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50050	I must correct that finding of inaccuracy that the lady did not deal with child labor, which is incorrect. So, from the three years 2002 to 2005, she was the author and host of the primary and secondary prevention program of drug abuse and other forms of unacceptable child behaviour in the primary schools of the city of Zagreb and that this was in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with all other associations of crime. Therefore, she worked for three years on all forms of behavior unacceptable to children throughout the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50051	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Mastruko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50052	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Three are the basics I want to mention. First, as an argument for selecting Dr. Ksenija Butorac. Its curricula is listed, i.e. it is mostly sure of this data that we received in the papers, materials, education, membership, work career, publications, professional activities and the like. Without question, of course, Ksenija Butorac's dignity or her qualification for the work she's been doing here and these projects she's been conducting. Most of the projects here show that she was an associate. I have to apply that as far as the HNS Club is concerned, this curricula of hers is not qualified for the jobs that are proposed here or for a child counsel. If she looks a little more carefully, we see that her primary education is a criminal, a graduate criminal lawyer. We know that during the course of schooling this mainly relates to the area of crime and that area, that she graduated, that she worked at the university, that she mastered and that her work experience was actually a criminal officer and a system lecturer at a college of criminal sciences, a criminal officer analyst. And then this second point I want to mention, which is from a moral point of view, this retirement of hers. For what? Because of this because if she was retired in her 37th year of life on her own request, this status of Croatian defence attorney really doesn't interest me, or I want to go into reviewing it, but if a person who is under the pressure of creative activity at his request is leaving at 37th year in retirement I assume that she was so traumatized or that her work skills were questionable, so she decided to retire. And that's where I'm more of a moral aspect of her later activities and all of what she's been doing. Of course, I do not dispute the right of the pensioners to continue to deal with the area of their interest, to make certain revenues but here at 37 years of end, then to continue their activity. For me, he's actually asked what kind of working-law relationship the status is today, whether it's working, whether it's retired and what it's really about. To me, the moral aspect of this question is very important to me. I would actually suggest, I won't, I've watched these professional activities of hers, scientific research projects that she participated in, and yet there's an emphasis on criminal, criminalistic aspects and even in the part when it comes to drugs. That is why I might suggest that we interrupt the debate on this appointment today and that although this is not explicitly envisaged, the committee in charge is interviewing Mrs. Xenia Butorac. Otherwise, the HNS Club can't support this appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50053	Thank you very much. He's got a correction, Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50054	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague. For Mrs. Butorac, it means that at the age of 37 and 14 of an effective internship, she could have been retired. One basic, as a Croatian military invalid, means she lost her general working ability or could be retired as an active or not an active military person but an authorized person. This was at the time the Pension Insurance Act for persons employed, officials at the Ministry of the Interior and the execution of sanctions. So, retired because of the no longer professional possibility of development and everything else, and that means now that she's retired on that basis, that means that now that she's on this job, she'll have half her pension and she'll have a full salary. And even repaying the pensioner's debt because she's retired to 98. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50055	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50056	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm expressing a protest. First, because we started to discuss this item of the agenda because there is, in fact, no parent body that should have been discussed before the proposal for such a decision. And we transferred the debate on tourist land to the afternoon because the parent body of the Tourism Committee did not hold the debate. We definitely do not believe that a decision such as the appointment of one Ombudsman, one of the several institutions that we have in Croatia in this House, does not exist a parent working body that did not need to be discussed. However, this may also be because when we look at the Proposal for a Decision to appoint a Ombudsman for children, or what we have received here as representatives on benches, there is virtually nothing to discuss. Because the only thing we have is a résumé of a proposed candidate by the government. We ask the question whether there were more candidates or candidates in the way here, we can say that in public there were several names, whether or not they were discussed and why, this is the most important government decided precisely on Dr. Ksenija Butorac's proposal as a candidate for the child's attorney. We propose that we, today, interrupt the debate on this item of the agenda because we consider it as a club, as an SDP preeminent function of the Ombudsman for children in Croatia and to discuss it this way. In fact, the SDP, together with its coalition partners in the past term, initiated and adopted the coalition government, appeared to me by consensus to adopt the Law on Advocates, i.e. on the Ombudsman for children and has now appointed a former Ombudsman for children. I think that's how we show and show how important we are to an institution like the attorney's office for children. I repeat, the team is more of a protest that we are discussing today the proposal of a new Ombudsman for children. On behalf of the Club, however, I do not want to get into everything that is written in my résumé, just as colleagues and colleagues before me have asked certain questions, so do we. And that's why you're going with the Attorney General's appointment in, and that's the person who retired. We're assuming he's retired because it seems to me that from what's written here, it's not even clear. And that person who was retired at age 37 on her own request. And I repeat the equal status of the proposed candidate remains unclear from this. The second thing that seems to me and what we find very important in the club is that when you really read this résumé definitely the area of action of the proposed candidate is primarily almost exclusively the problem of juvenile delinquency. There is nothing in this CV about where, in what way, what results the proposed candidate had at work, on the protection and welfare of children's rights in Croatia. Not just the ones they are, they're under juvenile delinquency. So I would like to point out once again, we are protesting a procedure to appoint a child's attorney. We believe that there must be and that there must be a parent committee that should have and give its previous opinion on this appointment. And as a SDP club, we cannot support the appointment of a new lawyer in this way, regardless of what we find important and currently unacceptable to the office without a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50057	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Ms Ivana Sučec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50058	Yeah. It is incorrect to claim that this résumé does not show the results and effects of the lady's work. So, it is quite clear from the list of scientific works, professional works and educational materials which are available and in them are then very clearly visible, therefore, the results of the work of Mrs... And I'm guessing no one thinks it's possible that all these papers can be attached to this résumé. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, who wants additional notices can enter each of these papers and see where the professional work has come from and what effects have been achieved so I ask you best, therefore, to do so in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50059	Thank you very much. I need to intervene here now. Mrs. Sobol, on behalf of the SDP Club three, four times here, has repeated that she is protesting that this has come this way. First, she said the law was passed and was implemented by the appointment of a lawyer for children who has now resigned and been resolved. Now I'm interested in whether this procedure is in accordance with the Law or the Rules of Procedure or not? If, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, it came before the MPs, I would not see why you would protest. The second thing is, this proposal is like I just checked with the secretary in the Assembly 14th. 11.. Who has prevented any committee from putting on the agenda unless it is explicitly prescribed that a committee must put it on the agenda. So let's say the Committee on Family, Youth, Children, I don't know what it's called exactly, here's 10 days to put this proposal on the agenda, discuss it and give its opinion because no one has prevented it. So please, please, let's avoid this protest and what I know, if there's something going on, I also agree with you that it should have been put into jurisdiction explicitly and in law to predict but no one can even prevent any committee from putting as an interested committee, to put it on the agenda and discuss it. So let's not create from this now, I think it's reasonable what Mr... proposed, reasonablely, however, I must implement the procedure because this proposal has come in accordance with the law and rules of procedure before you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I opened up the debate, not if the parent board were for this previous point, but we would be deep in that debate. Therefore, there is no reason for this to have been deliberately done or in an artificial way or not legal, or for a business manner to be found before parliamentary representatives, or in front of this session of the Assembly. So either the lack in the law was that it was not foresaw the procedure, at least interviews by... to the committees of the lady or who would have been proposed and I consider it a one-off law maybe, but that's a question now to amend it and supplement the law to avoid such things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it was also possible that the Committee that got, or the MPs who got this proposal 10 days ago, or all the committees to declare themselves interested and discuss this issue, no one prevented anyone from doing so. So please, therefore, there is no such thing as an intention to avoid it, because this is all that has been done so far in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure. And that's why protests of that kind don't seem necessary. It is now time to move to an individual debate and Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's not a club. It's an individual club. A club? And then my men should be written, and they won't tell me what you thought. And forgive me, Mr. Letica, then if we're going to appreciate this that club then I'm asking you, that's on behalf of the club, I'm asking you to excuse me for that. The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50060	Thank you very much. My apologies, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When it is discussed and discussed in the Croatian Parliament about the appointment of any place for which jurisdiction is needed in the appointment of the Croatian Parliament, then it is a very important point. If he says this is about the appointment of the Ombudsman for children, then it gives one additional weight, additional seriousness, and further reflection on the act. If I further mention that this must also take into account the fact that so far, Ms Vrsaljko, the current Ombudsman for children, has resigned, including the strange and indecisive circumstances and the harmful circumstances that have occurred, which the public rightfully characterised very unfavorable for children. Then all this together gives this topic and this debate about the possible appointment of additional weight and additional seriousness. And then in that form, it's not unnecessary to say: we're only interested in content. We're also interested in the form. We're also interested in form because we at the HSS Club wouldn't want to double-cross the kids in some way. We wouldn't want children to be the ones to suffer whether because of shape or because of content for them it doesn't matter. Someone here said it would be good to go through a public call that would allow a clearer, more transparent, more insightful way of getting to the key person who would lead this institution. But I don't think that's it, that would be good for democracy. That's good for the kids. It is good because of this Parliament that is responsible for these children. And we're responsible for everything that's happened, what's happened, and what's going to happen. It is therefore a very important form. And indeed, it is worth complaining about the opportunity that she missed in the sense that we haven't publicly shown ourselves to all the interested and that we haven't rightly, for a reason, allowed an interview to be conducted to discuss the committees regardless of whose fault it is? Is that the mistake of individual committee presidents? Is that a lack of basic law? Was that anyone's fault? But when we talk about kids, it doesn't matter whose fault it is. It's more important if we can fix it. And I think that we can still fix and that we can get into that position that I believe we all want to be, which is to unanimously select such an important person at the head of that important institution. To choose with full support. I absolutely don't want to say that Mrs. Butorac isn't that person. I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that at this point, I don't have enough elements in shape or content to argue on behalf of the HSS Club. I don't have that. We must further respect the fact that we are talking about children. The modern world not only through war, through hunger, poverty, but also through the way of life of those who live better, under quotes, has brought these children into a very bad, uncomfortable and position that they simply cannot influence. That is why there are institutions that need to influence the position not to be defiled. That childhood is not wrong because of a future that can result from such a childhood being mispositioned. That's why our responsibility here and society's responsibility is very high. And the modern world with all its positives that the material world carries still puts that child in another plan whether we wanted it or not. That is why the sensitivity and creation of such institutions is inspired by an additional role that in the former conservative world should not because there were no such differences. That is why the role of this Parliament and this institute is very important. And for this reason, on behalf of the HSS Club, I appeal that we use all the expensive opportunities available today to reconsider this proposal to do an interview, to call on Mrs Butorac, to further shed light on all the elements listed in the CV, to clarify, not to speculate with the facts, information or information that we do not have at this time, and thus to end the debate in the way that this is proposed and from some colleagues, to reach the relevant position that is relevant for the appointment of the head of this institution and thus to get out of this situation which may be unfavourable because the debate has shown that there are reasonable considerations that making this decision would now, in this way and in these circumstances, be harmful to children, harmful to the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I think that this kind of position can be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50061	Thank you very much. In line with what the MP said at the outset, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has in its work an explicit marriage, family and custody. Special protection for children and motherhood and youth. So no one stopped him 10 days ago from getting this or someone else to summon him and that... Dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this committee didn't put it on the agenda. That's the point now. Even though it's not explicit by law, it's outright out there. But it's part of the circle. Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50062	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, there are two historic precedents in the selection of people we don't know. First, the system of marriage and marriage to the picture of our emigrants especially from Dalmatia means where people sent pictures usually those who, digging, dug resin in New Zealand sent pictures when they were young and handsome and then our girls in Dalmatia who were 15, 16 years old sent their pictures and about 50% of those marriages ended up in very traumatic states. My aunt got married like that. She had one of the most tragic history. The second precedent of the institutional type is so called. "bline dating" or blind dates in the United States where people either on the Internet or on the phone or in other ways agree and when they connect see if they fit each other. I'm actually very shocked by the level of masochism of this tall home. You correctly, Mr. President, said there was an institutional vacuum, that we were choosing a mass of people based on the absence of an institution of a parliamentary hearing. However, if you have seen two days in this House you have debated the budget, and masochism will only be looked at when it is voted on because the government has increased by 15 and a half percent, the Office of the Prime Minister's budget by 23 0.3%, the Office of the President of the Republic's budget by 23.01% to see that it is less important, the courts' budgets are only 4%, and the budget of this House is down 36%. Now that we're back on the résumé itself, since we don't even know this person if she's alive or dead, I'm protesting against the very idea that someone who's been retired can't be activated especially if there are 37 years of age in this High House of such people who have been retired and reactivated and can be very successful parliamentary representatives, perhaps even intelligence teachers. But if you carefully read that résumé, then you will see that the key concepts that dominate this résumé justify the fear that Mr. Mastruco spoke of. So you'll notice that these are concepts that define safety, self-defense, criminal sciences, defectologists, psychotherapy, neurolinguistic programming, drug abuse, neurolinguistic psychotherapy, severe addiction, severe criminal behaviour, juvenile delinquency, etc. The positive things I see in it are only about hobbies. The candidate plays the piano and her hobby is reading. It would be good if she at least said what her favorite literature was. See, that's one fairly significant piece of information for me to decide to see what kind of literature she's reading. There's not a word about her family. We don't know if she's married, if she's married, if she's divorced, if she's got kids, we don't know if there's any positive stuff. A child lawyer has to deal with children's smiles, she has to deal with child creativity, she has to deal with the development of creative skills for children. We don't have any insight into any of her humanitarian, humanitarian, or let's say hobbyist activities, we don't know if the walkers, how nature treats animals, did she help the old people. I apologize this way, probably that's what Croatian television is about, if that candidate listens to us and I don't have a prior against anyone as a candidate. I personally had several candidates and candidates who proved themselves devoted their lives to children. What does it mean to dedicate to children? This is what people who are teachers, social workers, educators, even teachers of family law, etc. know. Therefore, I think that this House of Highs would, if he wanted to preserve his dignity, not only defend himself at the level of the Rules of Procedure but that this High House would strike at this example with a fist on the table and say gentlemen enough is enough. Enough masochism, enough of you to force us, whether it's the left or right side of this to vote against our beliefs, to raise our hands for those dates blindly and to raise our voices for weddings through pictures, because today the possibilities are much higher, here there's not even a picture. Therefore, once again an apology to the candidate, the only solution is to exhaust the debate and make this House a conclusion that it will no longer go this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50063	Thank you very much. We have one correction of an incorrect quote, two corrections. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50064	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm just supplementing, or it's not exactly an institution of correction. Namely, personal data show that Mrs. Dr. Xenia Butorac, that she has both a wife and two sons, and secondly, I think it's a more appropriate correction, means that the government is withdrawing its proposal and doing this procedure that we have agreed, because we're entering into a situation that the person already has a negative media component in the act itself, so the first part will deal with it, not with the job that we need. And secondly, the part about getting married and getting married through pictures, it was before there were no cameras, and until the pictures could be sent the question of the kingdom, the empire was the same as solving borders and everything else so it wasn't just Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50065	Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50066	Yes, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is the one that Mr Kovacevic said, which is that it is very well known therefore to live in Trpanjska 4 in Zagreb with his wife Slavko and sons Peter of 20 and Nikola of 17, so he is a family person. So she published her phone and e-mail, so it's possible to check everything else, but it's not true that she's only related to crime, so she's doctored in the field of educational science means at the University of Zagreb and is also dealing with the same area of social sciences that aren't criminology. So, the rest of the post-graduate section deals exclusively with child rearing and defectology, means crime before, but also with educational activity, which is very important for what needs to be done and correct so that it deals exclusively with crime, which is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50067	Thank you, but let's not get into it right now. Everyone has a biography so they can read. If he didn't read it, then he did. Let's move on. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50068	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think this proposal is a serious proposal. Why isn't it a serious suggestion? Because we don't know anything about this person here. The truth here is taxed, they are taxed except for personal data we have education, membership, publications, professional activities, and so it's a job that's not so sensitive maybe that's enough. But you see in one Sweden the only and only condition is that it is very much responsible for the protection of human rights, and, in particular, children's rights where the birth home of such institutes as the child's attorney, the child's attorney, the lawyers for gender equality, and the other defenders there is only one condition, that he loves children and nothing else. And I'm asking you all who put yourself here in defense of something that shouldn't even be controversial, someone's professional qualities that aren't at all the subject of debate, would you, in your conscience, give your own child to some person who gave you paper information, which you've never seen in your life? Would you? I'm sure you wouldn't. Well, you see, but we can give other people's children, and why would we do that? Well, because that's what the government is proposing. Well, then, that's what the government proposes. The government always knows best. But the government didn't explain its own proposal at all. And that's what's most controversial. And if we really want to play criminal to study this little girl's vitale, then he's causing a series of misunderstandings. Indeed, as far as the career itself is concerned, it is evident that the person involved was a criminal officer and was then a lecturer, and I do not know why they use such sexual indeterminateness or if it is a female who is already a grudge. The person is not sensitive to certain things that I think Croatia has already advanced, and even about gender equality must speak for itself in the female and not as an official, not as a defender, but as an official, a defender, etc. So, the lady was claiming to be herself a two-year-old official. Then she was two years old, she said an assistant and lecturer, she said assistant and lecturer, and suddenly such a scientific career is cut short and becomes a criminal analyst official again in 1995 until 1997, or should stand as an analyst in the Department of Drugs Crime of the Zagreb Police Administration. And then it comes suddenly to retirement. We need to know because it's about children who are involved, who are working skills. Is she in physical, psychological capacity to do a very difficult and very responsible job, a job that needs exceptional courage. The attacks on the Ombudsman for children and for all those who are not only such an important institution but all those who task themselves to publicly engage in the protection of the weak face a number of difficulties. First of all, they come across a series of institutional difficulties without talking about the pressures of different species. So that's what we need to know about here. We don't know anything about that. Furthermore, the lady claims that she graduated 78th, please, in classical high school in Zadar. The classical high school in Zadar didn't exist at the time. I graduated 76. She was a high school girl. It was later even called the Center, but it's good to call that high school high school but classical high school becomes like a general high school class only there in the 90s and some years in Zadar. Therefore, it is a matter of evident inaccuracies. There was talk of retirement here, it's true that some person who may have been retired may not have some certain affinity later and so, however, this is about an absolute engagement both physically and psychologically, and this is not about some service that lasts eight hours. This is about the official, the official's application for a full-time official, which means being in the service all the time. There's no hours here. And we have the right to know why this person has requested retirement. There were even explanations here that I don't think they went even though they were in the defense of this person. I think they went to harm when it was said that there was an opportunity to retire. She took advantage of the possibility that she might have taken advantage of the possibility. There's a lot to be used. And when we were here saying there's more defenders than there's supposed to be, but let's play that story now. These are legal possibilities. But please, many things have happened and happened in the state by law and that they are morally absolutely unacceptable. And when we talk about officials and on their own about the child's attorney, then these issues become the primary issues. For these very reasons, not only do we not know about the person that it is about, but it is from these characteristics that it has stated itself that it is in doubt that it is able to do its job properly. And I certainly won't raise my voice for this person.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50069	I need to intervene one more time. In the sense that we had seen and listened to the previous lawyer in the House. I, for one, saw her for the first time when she came to a formal session, so I said hello. Others have probably seen it. I don't know what we want now if we had to see someone, talk to them, etc. as if someone had prevented the Committee on Children and Youth from discussing it. My main problem here is that no council has discussed it. That's what we said at first. And secondly, the use of opportunities should not be prevented especially when such use of opportunities exists in this assembly of individuals who have retired one day. Please, let's not disqualify people, so when we negatively place it, then look for anything possible to question this man. This woman probably, as Agent Letica said, is now living in front of the screens if this is looking at a very unpleasant episode in her life when we talk about her in a negative way and she's here, and that's not exactly correct. Negative and with intent and intent to seek negativity. That's the intention and I'm with that intention here as chairman I can't agree with. I ask you to avoid in some way such qualifications that have no basis but are the fruit of some of our thinking behind which is probably some political background. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. You called late, sir. To correct me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He can't because I'm being defended by an article of the Rules of Procedure that says you can't do that. So don't fix me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't miss it. I speak quite objectively. From the very beginning, I was opposed to discussing it this way, especially if neither of them discussed it. Please, let's move on. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Emil Tomljanović. And in the meantime, at 12.21 hours, it's been ten minutes. So, Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50070	Mr. Vice President, it's an incorrect assumption that we don't know anything about this person. On the contrary. We know all about this person what's important for the appointment in question, one. And two, another incorrect assumption is that the government didn't explain it. The government has explained and referred the proposal to the procedure fully in accordance with the law, and as we have seen from the opening argument and no business obstacles will be allowed to take place today in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50071	Thank you. Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50072	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm just correcting what you said about naming what's right, Mrs. Ingrid, but unfortunately that's the situation with the former, so we're the same. And that's the problem that we name everything unseen. And that is why we are pleading for a procedure that will be public, which will be transparent and the possibility of interviewing and accessibility to all, all places towards the Constitution. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50073	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50074	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic. I'm surprised as the Zadranka fetish doesn't know there's a classic high school in Zadar, or there's a seminary of God, a bishop's religious seminary that has status, which has the status of classical high school. So, uh... It's a classic high school and that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, it's because of us here in the Parliament and for the public. After all, Zadar has a classic high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50075	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50076	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 209. I don't know if you were in the assembly when I was talking. There is, of course, a classical archdiocese high school that only male students could attend at that time and high school at this time did not even exist but center. And classical high school is an establishment as a general high school class in the '90s. So these are incorrect and false data.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50077	Look, don't make a false lie. Well, you could have said incorrect, but you went too far when you told a lie. Don't overdo it, why we're going to extreme qualifications. That, I'm against it, saying it like that. And don't, I mean, let's be tolerant, let's not be so tough and get into some qualifications that don't actually have room. Please. And what if she proves that she used to go to classical high school in some way? So what are you gonna say when you... You said he was lying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what will this one tell you? Please, let's avoid it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Ivo Loncar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50078	Mr. Vice President, colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50079	It's an article!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50080	Article 214(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: And you broke it. She reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, stated article 209. She pollemized there, did not absolutely warn where the Rules of Procedure had been broken. Therefore, read Article 214(4) and you must assign a reminder to it and to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50081	Like this. I must say, for the sake of truth, that the lady was correcting the quote because she claimed. No, she is, yes, but then there's some claim that doesn't have to be true, but she claimed, she has the right to claim what's not true, looking strictly at the Rules of Procedure. So, I think she's in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I don't know what Mr. Kramaric's calling about. Don't spin 'cause you're confusing. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50083	Excuse me, Mr. Stazic. I apologize to Mr. Stengl. He was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here are the references for the proposed candidate and the whole process is not about the fashion show or the selection of the missus, that the lady in question should take a walk here in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50085	Let's move on, Mr. Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, everyone who's this Parliament now, is calling us all into this situation, and above all, who has brought this candidate, Mrs. Xenia, into this situation... He didn't do well before anything happened to her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, her. This is completely unprepared, this is not sufficiently explained, and this did not make a way of processing in the Assembly so that it could come to the plenary session. And now we're all in a very awkward situation together and I personally discuss the appointment of a person we don't know and haven't had a chance to get to know. And I really can't know, maybe a woman is awesome for this job. And we are all now doing her maybe injustice because we need to debate and we need to debate, we need to protect the integrity of this institution in the way we are discussing it. I'd say we don't have any conditions, that we're almost discussing this, let alone deciding. We don't have legal conditions above all. For Article 22 is replaced by the The Law on the Ombudsman for Children says he can be appointed a Croatian citizen with 10 years of work experience and who is known for his personal public opinion in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of the child. Publicity known in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of the child. The candidate isn't. She may be known in professional circles as a criminal, that, but nobody here knows, none of us who have to decide what it is known for promoting child rights. Where it stood for the rights of the child and in public, in the widest public it should be known. So it's not already filled in in Article 22. The law, no business conditions have been met. Look, we just postponed the debate on this tourist property this morning because the parent board didn't discuss it. You have now established, Mr. Vice President, that there is a parent committee for this problem, that it exists. Well, when he didn't discuss it, we could wait until he discussed it. If he wasn't discussing that committee, then he wasn't discussing this one, so is it urgent that we had to deal with this subject in such an awkward way today? It was supposed to wait for the board to meet and, well, at least do an interview with the candidate. Third, third thing, what's a lawyer for kids? He's... Who? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Parliament. This Parliament. He's not... Government, rather than this Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, this House, as I see from all the debates in the clubs, individually except for Mrs. Trakoscan. No one else who would... She's supposed to be this lady she's not famous for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, not your fault, not your fault. But, Mr. Vice President, why didn't you invite the candidate to the session? Well, then here you could directly answer some doubts, questions, clarify the situation. Well, at least we could decide in this regard, and we could discuss it better than we discuss. So, I think it would be the smartest thing right now. I wouldn't be surprised, I wouldn't be surprised if the missus would withdraw her candidacy after all this. I really wouldn't be surprised. Because now, because right now, from all that we could find out. Look here, there are now some doubts, defense-free, we see that she was working at the time of the war, and she's acquired the status of a defender, belongs to a group of people who acquired that status without a battlefield, that's all those who worked at the MORH, in the MUP, we know it all by heart, we know it all by heart. They were doing some administrative work, they were analysts somewhere, because they were employed by the MUP, they gained the status of defenders. And we have hundreds of them, maybe thousands, etc. She used her right to go to early retirement. It's already been pointed out here, whether it's morally controversial, not morally controversial, someone, perhaps someone else's not, the woman used her right, so it's not immoral to use her right, the question of how the right was given, whether it's possible to give such a right morally or immorally, but it's already the question of the legislator, the one who makes such a decision, and not the one who uses it rightly, because certainly, he has the right to do so. But all in all, Mr. Vice President, I think in the interest of the candidate, in the interest of the dignity of this House, in the interest of this institution as it is an important institution I urge you not to conclude this debate, not to complete this procedure until the end, to suspend it in some way. Consult yourself, find some business opportunity, find some business opportunity. Or on behalf of the Government, this proposal will be withdrawn for now. You can suggest the same person another time. But to prepare all this together in a more polite way, in a legally justified way, in a business way and you know that you allow us to act here and morally not only legally. Moral. Because this is a moral question, too. Well, we can't, you can't ask me to vote for someone, for such an important function without these elementary facts. That would be on my side, so we have to vote here according to our best conviction. Well, I have to make sure that person is the best solution right now. It's the best solution. And I will vote for her no matter what she proposes, this or that government. It doesn't matter. But let me assure you that's the person. Not me. All of us here. Well, it's not a person, so it's not a function one can choose from most HDZ votes. It's not that, it's not the kind of act that's being passed by most votes. Well, that kind of decision has to be made here by consensus. We all have to be convinced, everyone, that we've chosen the best solution. Therefore, Mr. Vice President, I am truly inviting you on behalf of the candidates, on behalf of this House's dignity, to step out of this in the most reasonable way possible. I call upon the government to withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50087	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. We have one replica and we have a call from the president of the HNS Club for, like, now. The well-intention of this debate would have been much greater if someone had asked the question on the left why did the President of the Committee, Mr Vidovic, not schedule the session and put this item on the agenda? You haven't asked that question at any time, and that's the fundamental question why any committee or committee are so much, so you're so unobstructed. Correction of incorrect allegations, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50088	Mr. Vice President, the President of the Parliament is obliged to take care of the Committee's work and then when...... The President of the Parliament is right... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50089	You have reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure against, not on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and you have not called for anything to be pointed out. And now please, please, let's go to the correction of the incorrect quote. The first one is Mrs. Judge-Thrascan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50090	He incorrectly claimed that Mr. Stazic had not met the conditions to discuss this proposal. So it is true that all the laws are prescribed and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed conditions. And the fact that they are not additional opportunities used because Mr. Vidovic did not call the family for youth is their failure. And the other thing is one condition for Mrs. D.A. to re-propose the SDP is impossible to meet, therefore, because it proposes the Croatian Government under the Law on Public Prosecutor for Children. So I ask you nicely to stick to the fact that this is a bill and a Rules of Procedure a well-founded proposal. And another correction to an incorrect quote. I don't know the lady personally, but I hope to meet her when we call her the Attorney General, that she will then introduce herself to us and that we will all know her through her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50091	Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50092	My colleague Stazic said, "She is not known here." Then "she" thinks of the candidate "not known to the general public, she may be known to the professional public but that's not enough." I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what, pal. That's not true. Mrs. Butorac is famous, at least to me, for finishing Zadar high school, we heard that a little while ago, and that Zadar high school finished, and our distinguished colleague. I think that should be enough. One more thing. When former lawyer Matijević-Vrsaljko was elected, we know that she was here, that she was walking here like a fashion runway. We've all met her as well as the former state attorney of the party's Elliot Ness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50093	Thank you very much. We have before Mr. Lesar, we have one, one replica of Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50094	Your Honor, Vice President, I think that this part of the further debate in correcting an incorrect quote is not well managed because the negative part is immediately created because if the doctor is appointed, she will first have trouble explaining what she was doing, how she did? He'll lose all the time. And that's why my colleague Stazic is right, and I'm asking, if anything, I agree with the fact that the parliamentary committees could have discussed it. The question of whether the President of the Parliament delivered it to them and asked them to discuss it is a matter of business. But here we have not heard from the government's representatives what Mr. Palaric is like, which Mr. Stazic also appealed was the course in the Government of appointments. Did you, did you see the lady? Has he seen the Prime Minister? Does the Prime Minister know at all about the scale of the business? In the first part, I made it seem like my colleague knew her. She just admitted to me she doesn't know her. I asked her. And as she was saying, I had a feeling she really knew her. So let's not put things back on this part of the opposition, this. This is, this is an important question. This is an important issue of the functioning of an institution, and there must be an agreement because everyone according to the Constitution has the right to have the same opportunities and that is why I should have gone to support my colleague, should have gone first to a public invitation to all. Who is believed to be able to do so should report, the terms and conditions. And then an interview with both the government and the board of directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50095	First of all, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50096	Mr. Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 91, were injured by the debate of this item on the agenda. It is clear and precise in Article 91 that the information and who is the parent committee for proposing to the Assembly of this item of the agenda is. It's not a committee you mentioned earlier, it's about the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. In paragraph 3, it states that it proposes a choice, appointment, resolution and denunciation of other officials elected or appointed by the Parliament if the law is not different. In the law, the Law on the Ombudsman for Children states that the government is initiating the procedure. The government may propose to the Parliament, but it's completely, completely irrelevant who the promoter is? It is important that the Committee proposes the selection of all elected officials. It is entirely irrelevant whether the Committee is the Proposer. But the Committee is the parent body that proposes the election of officials elected by the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50097	Thank you very much. I'm giving you a heads-up because you abused the Rules of Procedure and you didn't correctly quote the Proposer. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and no one prevents the Committee from discussing the issue. Please, Mrs Antunović, you have called upon the law you have not read, which clearly states that the motion is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This does not exclude any committee from discussing this proposal and please no further discussions on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have incorrectly quoted and referred to something that is not justified and is a warning to you. Thank you very much. Now he's reporting for a reply to Mr. Nenad Stazic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50098	Mr. Kovacevic, you're absolutely right. You are absolutely right when you mention the board and in some way the obligation of the committee whether it is just a business or it is of a normal nature or of a moral nature. But look, I would warn you that the President of the Parliament according to our Rules of Procedure, according to an article that I do not know at this moment, but I thank you for letting me say this in your own replica here now, because when I wanted to say it under the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I deserved a warning even though I was absolutely right. I got a warning. If the president of the parliament sees that the president of the committee does not call the committee, then it is the duty and the right of the President of the Parliament to call on that committee and the President of the Parliament if he has established that Davorko Vidovic or anyone else, any other committee he thinks is competent, that he is the parent for this point was obliged to convene a committee meeting and not allow this point to come into debate before the committee discusses it. It is so in our Rules of Procedure, regardless of what the Vice-President of the Parliament shares warnings when he is told that it is so according to the Rules of Procedure, because that is the case by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50099	To all MPs, the President of the Parliament sent this proposal, including the chairman of the committee who did not call the committee for ten days, and that you once again have only declared you guilty now of President-in-Office of the Parliament. It's everyone's fault, but it's not Vidovic. And why isn't Vidovic guilty of you, because he's from your party. That's it. That's the problem. Please be moderate and objective and let's not always look for something on the other side. Let's be self-critical. Ten days has been enough, and the President of the Parliament doesn't have to monitor whether in five days or three days a committee has called or why it hasn't called. You haven't said that to a single word, and you're so unobstructed. Now, on behalf of the club, the president of the club, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the name of the Croatian People's Party Club, I demand a 10 minute break in order to arrange for further participation in this debate and to establish the proposals that we will give you on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50101	Thank you very much. What? Who's looking for everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50102	On behalf of the HSP Club but by giving the government's representative the opportunity to speak to the Prime Minister because I believe he doesn't even know about this whole course.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50103	Who else is looking? This way, HNS, HSP, SDP, HSLS, IDS and HDZ demand a break. The HSS is here. Resumption of the session at exactly 1:00 p.m. On behalf of the CNS, the president of the club Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, what is the function of the opposition in Parliament? To question, ask for arguments and explanations of what we are discussing. The government, and by ruling the proposal, defends its proposals, and we must ask questions, we must get answers to the questions asked and that is our basic function in Parliament. So when that happens, you don't need to raise your voice, you don't need to get any tensions, you don't need to share any warnings if questions are asked, all in order to make an effort to come to an agreement. I would like to apologize to Mrs. Ksenija Butorac and the Croatian public on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Club for having arranged our failures again embarrassingly monitoring Parliament's work, and I would ask that all of us and the presidents of the working bodies and those who handle the work of the session when we go on the agenda, this is a lesson never to do so again. What are we discussing? On the proposal and election of Commissioners of Parliament to protect children's rights. We must choose a person who, on our behalf, will protect Croatian laws, care for the protection of children's rights in this country. Do we have the right to demand, to further question and to meet this person? We do. Does that help her in the beginning to do her job with greater and stronger authority? Yeah. Does the law say that the working bodies, that Parliament discuss it on the left or right, in the morning or on the evening, with reduced or elevated tones? No, I don't. Where's the pass? If it does not say that the parent board and other working bodies have to discuss it, and MPs are asking to discuss it on the working bodies, then I guess we should put a minimum of effort and give it out and the possibility for the working bodies to conduct an interview with the candidate. That's how we proved it today. This point is not in the order of the debate on the agenda that we have. We were now to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land and this point was skipped because the working bodies did not consider the bill and there were no conditions to discuss it, so we moved to the agenda point which also the working bodies did not discuss and when the request was made, it was an infringement of the Rules of Procedure and Notice. Mr Vice-President, please kindly allow enough time for interested working bodies to put this on the agenda, because the item was not planned now, to conduct a conversation and interview and to continue the debate after you have received a report from interested working bodies, especially these two committees that have today said that they want to discuss it. I believe that, in the follow-up of the debate, a number of reasons, the tension will be smaller, there will be a number of questions, to give answers to a series of questions that in a moderate tone without bile and the sharing of reminders could decide on the Commissioner, about the person we trust to protect children's rights in this country for four years on behalf of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50106	Mr. Representative, you are not competent to interfere with the chairman's session and determine when he will give notice and when he will not. Notices have been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And as for the item on the agenda that was skipped, skipped because it had no conditions, this point on tourist land because the parent board did not discuss it. He tried 9:00, didn't have a quorum, so he moved to one-and-a-half hours, and as soon as that point was discussed, it was going to be on the agenda, and this point you're talking about had no conditions, it had conditions. So, Mr. Lesar, by respecting your good wishes to debate in a tolerated atmosphere, I've been working on it all along, but none of those who should have, and those who are very critical of others, haven't said, and this committee should've been discussed and why he didn't discuss it. And you didn't say that, but you're declaring here the president's mistake. I refuse any such tendency that you call upon the order of the chairman who works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. Now let's move on. On behalf of HSP, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50107	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must say, from a business point of view, Mr. Luka Bebic, the vice president did not make any business mistakes, and Mr. Lesar was not even in the assembly when it started with this point. I think on behalf of the Croatian party of rights club, that the question of the appointment of the Ombudsman for children is not a question of the opposition, nor of positions but should be gained the impression, guarantee and position and opposition to appoint the person from all of this which was done, as it was done, that we have the guarantee that this person will successfully behave his function. So it was nothing more than our intention at the HSP club, which we started with this debate than to act responsible, because behind us are the same as all of you Croatian voters who voted and are seeking responsibility to name people in such places who will be able to behave successfully and effectively. Now what's the problem with all this? We are today as you yourselves have seen, we have found one thing that is very important, that we have a bad system related to elections and appointments of such large duties, a bad system that is undeveloped. We from the government's representatives, I ask him three times, what was the election and appointment procedure in the government. Was there some kind of invitation public tender? As in the end, who entered the narrow circle, why did this person get picked? We have nothing against Mrs. Ksenia Butorac to think wrong, though, but we have no guarantee that she will successfully act on that duty, and we think that's the most important thing. ... Mrs. Zdenka yourself told me that you disagreed with this appointment when you're throwing it to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I think it would be wise, I don't even believe the Prime Minister knows about this whole thing. So it would be smart, because since there are a lot of jobs and obligations and we normally know how coordination works and how it all works. At least if the Deputy Prime Minister had come and explained it to us exactly, because it is still the portfolio where she is in charge, because Mr. Palaric is not in charge of that portfolio, he has a system of state administration, that she explained to us which reasons motivated perhaps this debate would not have been at all. Maybe there wouldn't have been a debate if we had been initially told, there were 10-15 candidates, we had talked and we brought the court that Mrs. Xenia Butorac was the most capable, and it guarantees that she would be able to behave, but unfortunately we didn't hear that. And that's why I'm saying again that it's smarter or that the government is pulling this part or to stop this debate, let's say someone from the government who's working on that resort doesn't deal with Mr. Palaric, let him tell us openly why he as a representative of the government says I guarantee it, then it's easier for me and at the HSP club to say we support it, and we'll vote. This way we have no guarantee that we will choose a person who will be able to act immediately, and from all of this, which is not our opposition consequences, the consequence of the unprepared proposal, is that no one wanted to talk about it as a person, but we want to be responsible for our voters and say yes, I can raise my hand exactly, we come to a person who will successfully behave this duty because this is not a party issue, it is an institution question, we know what problems are in this area of child protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50108	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP, who will? Here you go. Mrs. Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50109	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the SDP club, I'd like to start by saying that, in fact, when we're discussing who the proposing is, who's the parent body, who should be discussing something or shouldn't be discussing it, let's say that the motion for all the laws is the government, and then it turns out that all the laws of the government could be discussed without any committee giving an opinion before that, so maybe even the law, the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land could be discussed on a regular basis, regardless of whether the Committee on Tourism has given its opinion. Mr. Vice President, first of all, when we opened this debate today, and when we started to comment that we had no opinion from the parent bodies, you first claimed that it was for this point and there was no parent body. After that you said and read from the Rules of Procedure that the parent body is the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports, I think I read it well because you read it in that section, does not write the parent body in relation to the part relating to the protection of children, and in the meantime the opinion appears that this parent body of the Board of Selection and designation as previously read in the Rules of Procedure, so perhaps then a colleague Majdenic, who runs the Committee on Selection and Design, is also responsible that we do not have the opinions of her body. If I am not mistaken the other day, our colleague Maria Byte, as vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, said at a meeting with the children that we will soon get a new guardian for the children, because the Committee for Selection and Appointment has sent a proposal to the Croatian Assembly. Well, now that I've said all of this, I don't really know who the parent body really is anymore, but what I'm trying to say on behalf of the SDP club, we believe that this debate today has shown that in the process of this proposal, that is, in this material that we have been given to discuss at the Croatian Assembly, there have been gaps. We're asking that a government that, apart from the résumé of the candidate, has said absolutely nothing else why it decided on this very candidate, and even less said about whether there might have been more candidates in the competition for this place. After all, there are two State Secretarys sitting here, so maybe they could explain it. So we ask that this not be debated, that the government withdraws the proposal and proceeds again with the motion for a decision to appoint a new lawyer for children, because as far as we know at the SDP club, there were more candidates, and among other things, there was also a candidate who had the guts first to rule 15 prisons for one paedophile. We're wondering if maybe she could have been a defense attorney's proposal, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50110	Thank you. Madam MPs, there is no parent body precisely appointed for the selection of counsellors for children, but there is a parent working body for special protection of children, motherhood and youth. ... Please don't pretend you don't understand what I'm talking about, and you've found that there's a parent working body to elect a child's attorney, and it doesn't exist. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have failed to say again that Mr Davorko Vidovic, the chairman of that committee that you declare to be the parent, has not scheduled a session in 10 days and discussed this issue, and therefore you are biased as to who you blame for the Committee's unhappiness or at least in this regard for the unhappiness of this Committee. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, you even mentioned some people here to Mrs. Maria Byte in some context and she sees the devil in no way, everyone's guilty just isn't Davorko Vidovic who should have. ... So admit he didn't call the board, that's what I'm talking about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not necessary, because Mrs Antunovic, in her winding act, found wrong that the Board of Elections and Appoints is proposing to the Ms. Attorney General. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, it is. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No parent working body has been appointed, read all the competences of the working bodies, so if you find in one of those committees that it is the parent body, listen to me, please listen to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That that's the mother's working body to elect a lawyer for the kids, then I'll publicly admit that I was wrong. Therefore, do not discuss anything that is not based on the Rules of Procedure. It's perfectly legitimate that the government has proposed a child's attorney, no one has prevented any committee, so now there are 23, I could declare them all interested, discuss it, but you want to transfer the whole thing to responsibility for the unhappiness or lack of work on someone else. That's not gonna work. This is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, and the second thing that I said in the first intervention is that I continue to defend the position that it was necessary for the working bodies of the Parliament to discuss, no matter who the proposer is, and that is the difference between your position and my position, and I will advocate that the working bodies discuss this proposal, if that bothers you. I've been at it since the beginning, but don't argue that this procedure is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. If it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure someone is guilty of not taking advantage of his ability to discuss it, that is the matter, and please let us not, I cannot be missed by any other story that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am here to defend the Rules of Procedure as I sit in this place and I will defend it both in terms of saying the reminders and in terms of trying to resolve in a peaceful and tolerated way every problem, I am here for that. Please don't push me into something that isn't true, and now on behalf of the club HSLS, DC, LS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues from the government, colleagues and colleagues. ... Yeah, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think the first time we were on behalf of the DC Club, HSLS, LS said that really our remark was more than benign and extremely well-intentioned and that I really don't understand that this Parliament is missing what really belongs to it by definition, which is to find really ways to choose someone. And that we're really allowed to do this, like our colleague Letty said, to choose from a distance and to an invisible one. And I think this really needs to get to no one here, at least hope or the great majority because I can't speak for everyone but that this isn't a party issue and that this really shouldn't be a party issue. Because if we ask it as a party question, then it really shows that we have decided to politicise all segments of our society and indeed this kind of post-modernist right as the right of a child, something that really belongs to the newest generation of rights that should in some way be the legitimacy of this society and this House that has this obligation to elect a lawyer or a lawyer, to take that right and to do it and indeed do it in a dignified way. We're joking here so little in the benches that we can actually send a fictional biography like this, and that, too, so that we should discuss this fictional biography and that really fictional biography can also be written without any major problems. Why is it that this hiering institute that they know, each of us who was in any parliament in the world, at the American Congress, could attend. That's what they say, we could say a democracy parade or something like that or say a little cosmetic like that. But why avoid exactly that cosmetics. If that's how we choose diplomats, if that's how we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court, why this and this really important place? We've had some bad experience with this last case of the D.A.'s office. A lot of that stuff was left unsolved. It turns out that it's not really such an idyllic relationship and that they don't rule there. They've got these weird houses, so some weird jobs, so that privacy was quickly impregnated with a public function. We had what we had. I have to admit, I'm really sorry to even talk to you right now. It's a bear service to Mrs. Xenia Butorac who's probably a correct person, but this way, because it's a little bit like that, and it's a little bit like this, a little bit like that, a little bit like that, that we're really coming up with some things with too much ignoring, it's not good. And that's what I'm really saying, and as a man, it bothers me, and in the end, the person who has to decide and who carries a certain responsibility behind him. And that's probably what makes these serious people different from non-serious societies. How responsible we are. We chose the lady, or the previous assembly of Mrs. Vrsaljko's Parliament. No one felt very co-responsible about it and was obviously a failure precisely because the whole series of things didn't work out properly. And now again there goes two, two and a half years, we repeat the same mistake again, and indeed this person, for reasons that I understand, is being brought into a very unpleasant situation. And one hiering or two hierings actually solve all things. And that's exactly what many people here say about what this public invitation to tender would somehow give the person who's going to do the job and that some committees are going to do the job that I'm going to do as a man who finally has to decide about it. And that's all we're really looking for, to see how this procedure ever happened. We got something on the table but I don't know what happened before that fact. Well, that's a fact if someone can explain it to me and if they can convince me and I'm not a man who's running away from being convinced. There's really no reason not to vote for the candidate the government is proposing. But let's respect the procedure. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50112	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50113	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Kramaric. He says we've brought the lady into an awkward situation. It wasn't us, it was the government who brought in a motion like this unprepared. The second correction that work and hearing on congress committees is cosmetics. E is not cosmetics, it's quite a hearing and the first question falls and it's a public hearing. You obviously didn't look when it was, you just walked through the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50114	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS, Madam Representative Dorothy Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't think either of us wants to discuss the name here, but rather the qualifications of someone and, of course, the criteria by which someone is proposed. This proposal shows the government's attitude towards the Parliament. A girlculum vitae came to the government and they were glued three pages up and it came to the Croatian parliament. We do not see any explanation for this proposal except for the essential and formal decision, nor do we see the criteria under which the Government was run, nor what persons it was, the public tender. In order not to offend any other profession, they must bring medical confirmation that they are healthy, have points, conversations, and everything else. I think the child's attorney is a very important function in the state and we can't be so ignoring about this function. I also apologize to Mrs. Butorac. This really isn't going towards her and her qualifications. This is going to the government because this is really done in a very, very creamy way. As regards the committees themselves and the competence which the committee is competent to give an opinion on this proposal, I consider that the Committee on Human Rights is the parent committee that should have given an opinion on this matter. Since there are disagreements between the Vice-President and the other MPs, I propose that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure give its opinion on it and that we resolve then the question which committee is competent to do so and not that some members of individual committees are called upon to blame for why they have called or not called. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament defines the work of the Committee on Human Rights. If we are to regard children's rights as human rights, then it is indeed pointed out that the Committee has the rights and responsibilities of the parent body in the field of principle issues, proposals and opinions regarding the achievement of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the achievement and protection of human rights and freedoms. Unless we want to admit that children's rights are human rights, then we wouldn't be able to believe that the Human Rights Committee is not a parent body. I call on the government once again to withdraw this proposal and indeed refer to the Croatian Parliament and its dignity a proposal worthy of every law and any appointment in the Croatian Parliament. We at the IDS are really asking you to withdraw this proposal, otherwise we won't vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50116	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50117	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague. In fact, no one was defending the Human Rights Committee to discuss it. We remember the last time Mr Furio Radin was called up by the board and they were considering when we had a case of ex-prosecution, but since he started dealing with loans, he hasn't been here, instead of calling the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50118	In addition, the vote cannot determine which is the parent committee but must be written in the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's move on. On behalf of HDZ, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50119	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, and we at the club are sorry that there's been a situation like this on such an important one, you all said here that it's a very, very important matter for the attorney for the children. And we see how one non-political function is politicized. And I think we should find the strength in all parties to get through this one situation to rise above party interests and yes, she said well that she apologized to Mrs. Xenia Butorac, because she probably didn't, she'll certainly hear what was said and it won't be easy for her, and if she's chosen to act that way if she doesn't get the support of the entire Parliament. Therefore, the HDZ Club proposes that the debate be concluded and the meeting approved and this proposal discussed until the vote. I would still pray, pray and say, since there is no Mrs. Byte here, Mrs. Byte is the deputy board, not the board president. And I can still tell you how far we've been able to see almost everyone who's mayors haven't called committees anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50120	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club. Mr. Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50121	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club is simply concerned about this state of debate on this important topic. We don't think it's a good message to the kids, that it's not a good message to the citizens, and in total, we don't think this is how it's supposed to be. I think it should have been. I think you should take care of the form, who should have taken care of the form, absolutely agree to let everyone reconsider themselves, let everyone reconsider themselves. But children who should have received a different message, their parents who should have been given additional trust in this system of upgrade in the development of our children, this Parliament that was due today to testify to its credibility and seriousness about this topic has been brought into a very awkward and somewhat unserious situation. Because absolutely, on behalf of the HSS Club, I want to protect both the dignity and the reputation of Mrs. Butorac. First of all, we want to protect the right of the child, but we also want to give this Parliament a higher dose of seriousness in the debate on this important appointment proposal. Because of all of this, the said HSS Club believes that the minimum in which we will succeed is one positive and active position and one very strong voice towards the Croatian public who will believe in both us and the institution and the future Ombudsman, I think that we should open a debate on committees and that we should enable the interview with Mrs Butorac to take into account both the content parts within a reasonable time frame, and the content parts provided that we also bring this form to the point and the role it plays in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50122	Thank you very much. Now we've heard the exposure of all six or seven registered clubs. We have a concrete proposal from Mr. Marija Zubovic. We're here now, and we should have a break by now, so we can get some rest by 3:00. So, we propose to end the debate, to allow all interested committees, therefore, not only these two who are apostrophe but also others who declare themselves interested in discussing this issue and actually to vote then we have the relevant views of our committees. Does anyone have any objections to that or what? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50123	Mr. Vice President, I have another remark. I have an observation, it has been said that the Committee on Tourism has not held a debate and that the debate on the Law on Tourist Land has not arrived, it is simply not true, the Committee on Tourism held its meeting on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50124	That's what I said. If you have heard that the Committee on Tourism held a session, but it is not the parent board, which is for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. So here he is holding a session now, and hopefully we'll have up to three hours of the position of that committee, and we can discuss it then. Then do we agree to interrupt and allow committees to plead? Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50125	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a state, on the appointment of a prosecutor for children. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50126	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr President pointed out today, we continue the debate on the appointment of the Ombudsman for children, and I personally think it is necessary in view of the debate which has so far been on the tide as well as those discussions that have been highlighted or presented on the committees on which the work of the Ombudsman for children should be based. In accordance with the Law, the Advocate General protects and promotes the interests and rights of children. The fundamental document on which the work of the Ombudsman is based is the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, the Croatian Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other international documents. It is the Convention on the Rights of the Child which has come about, from the Declaration on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations that contains universal standards that every country must guarantee to every child. The Convention first and foremost discusses the obligations of adults in relation to the child as well as the obligations of a number of social factors relating to the protection of the child. This is the first document in which a child is approached as a rights entity, not just as a person in need of special protection. One of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as signatories to the Convention is to meet children and adults with the principles and provisions of the Convention using appropriate and active means and language understood. The Convention on the Rights of the Child was written by adults for adults in order to highlight children as a group to be respected. The right children must know and consider both adults and children. However, they are unconditionally but absolutely unconditionally required to know and respect those who live and work with children who in daily contact with them and who have a significant impact on the creation of an environment in which the child grows up and develops as a person. Similarly, all children and children are all persons under 18 years of age in accordance with the Convention must be familiar with the fundamental rights of the child in order to become aware of their rights, ways of gaining them, and protection in the event of their endangerment by another. At the same time, learning about personal rights should build a view of personal responsibility toward respect for the rights of others. Why did I find this important to point out? According to the Law on the Ombudsman for children, the Ombudsman for children is obliged, among other things, to meet and advise on how to achieve and protect their rights and interests. The Ombudsman has an obligation to cooperate with children, encourage children to plead, and must respect their opinion. Often, the attorney for children is the last and only instance to which a child without a mediator has the right but also the possibility to address in the event of a violation of his or her right and counsel must be the one absolutely sensitised person of child rights. It was therefore particularly strange to me personally that the lawyer’s candidate was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at least as I personally expect from the Ombudsman for children. How, then, do you expect everyone else to know children's rights if the candidate herself for a lawyer whose child rights promotion obligation was not entirely certain of what children's rights were? Is that why I think it's important to bring children's rights to prominence? The child has the right to parental love, proper and healthy nutrition, the right to education, the right to health care, the right to play and entertainment. No child must be subject to forced labor and be emotionally neglected or victimized by war and violence. No child can be the victim of sexual abuse. All children have the right to express personal opinion, freedom of religion, freedom of association, and every child has the right to information. The Convention also prescribes special rights for children without parental care, for children exiles, for children with special needs and children who are in conflict with the law. And respected colleagues and colleagues should not only take these children's rights declaratively. They have their very specific features in everyday life. And precisely because of numerous examples of violations of children's rights, the Croatian Assembly has also established an institution of child defenders. I hereby appeal once again to the candidate child counsel if she will be chosen to really study the Convention on the Rights of the Child because she gives her one, though in itself, a weak but quite necessary tool in the fight for children's rights. Another thing I want to talk about, even though it's always a little ungrateful, is the qualifications of the proposed candidate for attorney for children. Every life of the candidate in all the choices we have here in the Croatian Parliament reads in its own way. In this résumé, I was particularly impressed by a few words. The whole CV of the proposed candidate is rich in words of type: security, self-defense, crime, criminal science, supervision, psychotherapy, prevention, treatment, drug abuse, increased safety, prevention of addiction, maladjusted behaviour, delinquent activities, criminalities, criminalistic aspects, etc. It is not my intention now to enter the expertise and competence of the candidate in the field of juvenile delinquency and to combat drug abuse because I have no reason to doubt that the proposed candidate is not an expert in these areas. But I am quite sure that these qualifications do not give full or at least sufficient assurance that a person of such professional and professional orientation is a suitable candidate for the promotion and protection of children's rights, which I repeat by the concept of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, puts the child first as a subject of law and abandons outdated concepts of protection and special protection. Of course, in this debate, I have no idea of denying or reducing the problems of drug delinquency and abuse, but the modern concept of child rights as I pointed out at the beginning of the debate has been defined as an affirmative concept i.e. a concept that sees children as representatives of idealised futures, not as, not as a generation that needs special protection or modern concepts dealing with affirmation of rights and obligations, by developing personality versus those outdated concepts that put problems at first, which still involve a small part of the population. Of course, these two approaches are not excluded, but it is an important focus in action. In view of all of the above but especially because of the obvious professional disadvantages of the candidate, which was evident during the talks with the candidate at the Committee on the Family, Youth and Sports meeting, as well as the fact that there are numerous persons in the professional and wider public opinion who have shown better qualifications in the seat of the Ombudsman for children, I will not be able to support the selection of the proposed candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50127	Replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Lugaric's on the Committee where the candidate presented herself not only hers as you mildly said insecurity in knowing the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'd dare say she's discovered herself, revealed her ignorance in that segment. And you're absolutely right when you say it's a basic document that you should be working on if she becomes a child lawyer. But I'm worried about something else. In a statement, the candidate told reporters that her hearing on the Committee was "mobing". Look, the committees are hearing candidates for Secret Service leaders, hearing ambassadors, hearing candidates for Constitutional Court judges. It has not yet happened that any candidate who has been heard on any parliamentary committee says it was a mobing. It is an insult, it is an insult to this House, and the candidate should be a representative, Commissioner of this Parliament. I think it's inadmissible and that already alone that fact is absolutely disqualifying in the ability to be appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50129	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50130	Yes, my colleague Stazic I agree with your evaluations which say that it is an unacceptable response of the Ombudsman to one completely if not the usual, and that procedure that should be common especially when selecting candidates where the Croatian Assembly delegates its powers to another, but I still have to correct you. Attorney General for, the attorney general didn't say in a statement to the media that it was mobbing because it would be a bit true. What was more startled by me, the candidate said it was a bulling, and the bulling is mutual abuse of children amongst each other, which shows that the attorneys not only do not distinguish the fundamental differences between mobbing and buling but once again exposes themselves as a rather incompetent candidate for a job to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50131	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50132	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't want to give up today's debate, although it's definitely clear that the proposed candidate will probably be elected by the will of the majority in this House, in fact, the new guardian for the children. I actually wanted to repeat in a few sentences today some of the basic attitudes that I made last Thursday, since unfortunately after that I didn't know that the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights was, I think, very quickly, and the second day I was absent, and I couldn't attend the session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. But I read carefully and followed everything that was transmitted from those sessions in the media. First of all, I would like to reiterate and emphasise that, in fact, the Government has expressed its view of the future work of the Ombudsman for children in its very own way as she referred this proposal to Parliament for debate. Or, as I said the other day, she gave us two sentences with a three - page résumé. The résumé of the proposed candidate himself is respectable, but I think he's quite respectable for some other jobs, not for the attorney's office for the children and what the lawyer for the children should do. I would like to remind myself that there is a Law on the Ombudsman for children, that there are certain provisions of this law, and my real disappointment has been shown by the proposed candidate, not even the basics, the basic documents on which she should work in the future. So I will say, then, that in Article 6 which discusses the work of the Ombudsman and the way the Ombudsman works, i.e. the Ombudsman for children, is to monitor the compliance of the law, the rules in Croatia relating to the protection of children's rights with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child's Rights and Other International Documents relating to the Protection of the Rights of the Rights of Children, etc., and so on. I think it's a scandalous statement that on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports the Ombudsman said that she didn't know she was going to ask the basic provisions of the Convention, because if she knew then she would have prepared herself for it. I guess she'd learn and then she could answer at least partially the questions she was asked. Furthermore, Article 22 which has already been mentioned. It is clear when it says that the Ombudsman for children can be appointed a Croatian citizen who has a high professional capacity, at least 10 years of work experience and who is known for his personal public service in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of the child. If we agreed on something at the last session, we agreed that no one knew anything but those three pages of paper on the proposed candidate. Also because of the statement made by the future lawyer candidate, there was now little bickering about whether she mentioned mobing or mentioned bulling. I, who deals very much with the problem of specifically mobbing, must then say that it is absolutely unacceptable in this way to evaluate and assess the issues and views of MPs and the appearance of representatives at meetings of one or other committees. After all that has been said in this Croatian Parliament, after the ambiguities that have been left and after last week's debate, but I must also say after the session of the board where the candidate has stated, among other things, that she does not remember the basis by which she was retired, which I also find inadmissible, I personally will not be able to raise my hand for the defense attorney's proposal for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50133	Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50134	Well, here's a respected colleague Sobol said it's scandalous that a candidate for a child's attorney doesn't know the Convention on the Rights of the Child. True, fellow Sobol has now concluded and noted that she does not even remember the committee, or that she does not know why she is retired. Doesn't it seem even more scandalous to you that we here today, not only to discuss, but in the mood of most votes most of us will obviously be making a decision to appoint a lawyer who in 37 years has no idea why she retired, while our people are getting ready to work until 70, 75.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50135	HSP counseling club. Five-minute debate, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50136	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. The HSP club opened this debate to point out the lack of appointing and resolution procedures that are within the competence of the Croatian Parliament. The appointment of the Ombudsman for children is best confirmed and as far as no proceedings are concerned, and the procedure must be carried out so that we MPs in the Croatian Parliament are assured that the person who is proposed will be able to successfully behave in the duties for which they are intended. And therefore, since we are now entering the course of new appointments of very large officials, such as the Governor of the National Bank, it is high time that we legally, by law, prescribe a new course and procedure for the appointment of these large duties. It is not party functions, it is not a question of party bickering, it is a question of responsibility to Croatian voters. So, a minimum of one that should stand in such a regulation, a public call to all those who meet the conditions, meaning the conditions must be a certain, public call and now the possibility of selecting the best candidates through interviews, through hearings, either within the various committees of the government, and ultimately the most important debate and hearings, or interviews on the relevant parliamentary committees. Because when the Assembly Committee is behind a proposal, it's easier for us to discuss it here. Therefore, we cannot accept here the fact that we here are fellows who will only raise a hand, that it is pure formalism. If formalism were not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. Right? That it's formalism. It is not formalism because we in our voice guarantee Croatian voters that the person who is proposed to me and we are responsible for what she will be appointed and means whether she will be able to successfully conduct all these tasks. And again, I propose on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that the Government withdraw this proposal and conduct a public competition procedure, invites everyone who thinks they can behave in that capacity and get a real candidate. We MPs from the HSP club were present at the committees, or on the board of one but normally we did not obtain the assurance that Mrs. Ksenija Butorac would be able to successfully act in that capacity. In fact, we saw that there was no program, that she even said she wouldn't solve individual cases but would deal with the system. So we're dealing with the system, which is why we take it to deal with individual cases. We see what the situation was with that family in the City of Zagreb who were evicted into the street. Well, it's because of these individual cases, because of all this that's happening because the kids are getting more and more abused. There's a variety of forms, unfortunately, and we're not doing anything about it, and now we don't even have a guarantee. And the worst thing is that she's accusing us of mobing what I saw in one of the press, it's an unacceptable situation. I think he was a better move and smarter when we had the appointment of a Supreme Court president who then gave up when he saw that he had opposition and that procedure, that something was wrong with that procedure and in the end it was one responsible procedure. I can say I even expected the lady to give up. She just told us she'd give up if she didn't do anything after a year. Then where are we? Then where are we? So we lost one year, then she'll resign. So all of this was quite unseriously implemented, so we're not responsible for it, first of all is the government who didn't give us the guarantee that we got today that pension solution that was said to get it, we didn't get it, to see how it was and how it retired even though I know it legally how it was. Neither did it come, let's say the Deputy Prime Minister who made that proposal to say, I had a conversation, let's say there were seven candidates, six, five, four, maybe not one. But we need to know that. Then she said, "Look, she gave me a guarantee, and that's not there." So don't expect us to raise our hands here because we're responsible for our voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50137	Club representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50138	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I think this, last week and this week, clearly shows when something goes wrong, it has to be bad, it's gotta be worse and it's gonna end worse. So, if I had hoped a few years ago, we were also here during the night, we were MPs, she was offered a new institution with a very rational explanation that it was in and that these were really children's rights, the rights that Croatian society must also take care of, and that such institutions exist in developed democratic countries, although it is and then it seems very clear to me that it seems to him that he was where and where wiser that there is within this public defender and that there is a space that will indeed be dealt with and about these problems, which are indeed the problems of a couple of exellance of our society and which just shows that there and Croatia accepts the right of these weaker subjects. But what I'm actually saying again and again last week and today is showing, it's our hypocrisy, that one selective criterion, that we actually don't even really know the real reasons for solving the old lawyer. This is kind of how those who were the story a few years ago started this time suddenly silenced because it proved precisely that there was a lot of intertwination of public and private and that all together actually left one bitter taste on the very institution itself and additionally sensitized us to not allow and to defend the honor of this Assembly when several representatives, or several clubs, did not allow a new lawyer to be chosen in this way. What we really have a constant objection to, it's respect for procedure. If we're asked to raise our hands here, then we can't be just a gymnastics society, but we really have to have at least the elemental data whether two, three, five, XY candidates have applied to it, or if it's really just about one candidate, I say that last time with a very smut of biography, which is, as each biography itself, respectable, I respect it, and I said that in the name of the club I don't want to talk ad homeim, but it really was all that we started, and that was that a few discussions were opened on several committees where I was also as a man who dared or dared to talk about this problem, too got this impression that it was really about a candidate who still has some other preferences and where apparently the rights of the child are pretty foggy and I's still afraid that the key word of her professional orientation still belongs to one repressive system of crime, and I'm afraid that it's the very much the right of the child. And maybe this is actually a real opportunity for this Parliament right now, we have this one maybe and a chance, to really see if we need this institution in this sense as it is set up, and obviously it's not working, and you know yourself when you have whenever you talk, then one of the biggest problems is that the attorney general doesn't have enough money for him. We are now setting up these other institutions, and I am afraid that it is only in some way satisfying the form, and that the content remains and that what should be at the heart of your profession and our responsibility, which is a poor Croatian child who is in some way excluded and only serves us as here, as a nice slagward to discuss some private relationships on certain lobbying. Well, here you are now hearing that the lady is accusing us of mobing, and I'm afraid it doesn't stand, that we here are nothing but defending that honor. And just what I'm saying about all of this might be the best thing to pull back, give up, see if that institution can be positioned in a different way. I'm afraid the DC club, HSLS and LS can't vote for all of this, and the procedure and the candidates and I say there's already two weeks we've witnessed quite a bitter taste in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50139	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50140	Well, I'd like to make it right, I think I'm right... In his presentation at one time, Col. Kramarić said that at one point a few years ago, when it was in, we formed, or passed the Law on the Ombudsman for children, that is to say, for the first time the Ombudsman was appointed. [[You don't understand.]] I can't agree, I think that's incorrect. Well, I guess Croatia did not come and pass the Law on the Ombudsman because it was and because it was the world of one accepted state policy and consensus in this Croatian Parliament and where it was estimated that we needed such an institution and unfortunately everything that the former Ombudsman had worked on and clearly shows that the institution of the Ombudsman for children is very much needed and, unfortunately, we will need it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50141	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50142	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's the lead and this same Mr. Kramarić, I'm going to say that I didn't talk about this, she was talking about Dorote in front of the IDS club because he would really say not that we don't need this child counseling institute, but that this institute should be taken under the arraignment. And I agree, maybe at this point in time, that's not how to perform in, but I really think so. I'm thinking, and I'm going to say one more time, that the child's attorney should act with the attorney general, more specifically be his deputy, assistant, or so on. Croatia is not Sweden, although I do not deny that there are pedophiles in Croatia too, or that there is no homophylia in Croatia. One of the most disgusting examples is that list of 1,500 homosexuals where a 24-year-old states that a child aged 13 to 14 is common. There has been a recent amendment to this Penal Code, but those who sexually exploit minors in one way, not only should they be punished but perhaps something more should be done. The children's lawyers, I agree with many who have mentioned it, simply have not shown themselves. The first lady fell because of that famous love triangle, and this second one fell because of its god-awful defensive status and retirement at the age of 37. No one slows down that lady's qualifications, but the question is, are you a lady worthy of such a public service? That's the question. Retire, but don't take advantage of your pension. I claim that if we give her support, we'll simply be masochists if we confirm it. And that's why it would be really wise for her to give up this appointment on her own. I'll admit one big thing to my former attorney, which is only now via the Vatican, i.e. Holy chairs, he gets the right of citizenship. This is a pedophilia related to Brezovica, which is allegedly high and in the church hierarchy. Is that how we'll see it, but the Vatican with these last moves assures us. So, the ban on working on Sundays must not draw attention from Bezovica. And second of all, let's take this institute under an attorney general. Finally, this appointment, as Mr Kovacevic said, resolves the dilemma that Parliament is not at this point simply a voting machine and that is the point. And I'm saying it's a great victory for this House because he wouldn't let himself pass his appointment. If we want to, I'm going to say one more time, set up a serious child's defendership, then we have to take him under the vacancy counsel and we don't need to run that there are crimes against children in Croatia. It is primarily poverty, misery, sexual exploitation, drugs, etc. But when children are in turn, it's safe to be sensitive and to be maximumly rigorous, especially when drugs make children and sexually pimp or exploit, drive them to prostitution, crime, etc. This is the question that, in particular, the question of which the future Ombudsman for children or a lawyer should most insist on, which should be worked on especially when drugs occur. As for the appointment itself, we at the IDS Club will not support that appointment. It would be best if the lady gave it up. And once again I will say, we are not masochists that someone in such a public way should make fun of this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50143	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50144	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain who said, saying, "the former attorney has fallen because of the love triangle." That's incorrect. She resigned and this Parliament was resolved. Let's not go into that detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50145	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50146	Out of a series of incorrect findings and even a qualification, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine that no one has challenged this candidate's professional qualification. On the contrary. A number of debates here and at the tide and committees have just slowed down the professional qualification with everything else only colleagues of Cain obviously did not attend these discussions. That second assumption that this attorney is obviously falling in this House. I am afraid of my colleague Cain that despite all the debates, despite all the shortcomings observed, the majority in this House will still support this Ombudsman, which I think is very bad for the Croatian Parliament institution, but also for the institution of the Ombudsman for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50147	Third correction, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50148	Almost as much as she said, as already corrected by colleague Marija Lugaric. It's not true, because we at the Club are currently challenging the candidate's qualifications. They are not even formally legal in this regard satisfied. Because the basic condition not only of this formal education doesn't exactly talk about child protection. However, it is even a minor problem, it is essential. It's something that's very important, I'd say, which is the most important thing, and it's also the formal, but also the substantive condition that the person has shown himself and is known in public life as the protector of children's rights. And she turned out exactly the opposite, that she has no idea what children's rights are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50149	Fourth Amendment, Honored representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50150	Mr. President, I want to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that the former D.A. whom this House has resolved has not fulfilled its role. I definitely, I want from this place to say unanimously as far as I know we've been accepting reports, and also the last report from the former Ombudsman for children and this House has given her the support of this latest report. I think she made an extraordinary effort with her co-workers in setting up an office, in identifying the public, in public. But first of all, I want to say to children as an office capable of fighting for their rights and protecting their rights when necessary. So I'd like to pray that...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50151	SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50152	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club, I must say that unfortunately, we cannot support the candidate for the child rights defender and support the position of the HSP Club, which has asked that the Proposer actually withdraw this proposal and that some other name that would be much more qualified to do the job. In fact, as much as the problem here is highlighted in the candidate herself is so much the same problem with the proposing's responsibility that in front of this House for such an important function he proposes someone who would be much more qualified and better for the job. It should be said that in this entire procedure of running for Mrs. Ksenija Butorac there was a lot of uncertainty, so I would like to say here that there is a problem now. Namely, members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports have received some information, namely the solution some colleagues here have discussed where certain discrepancies in data are seen. According to Minister Ivan Penic, it was confirmed when Mrs. Ksenija Butorac retired that she had completed over 25 years of work. But her "curiculum" that we got here says that Mrs. 83 was employed and that she was retired for 97 years, which means she's 14 years old. I want to know what information is correct. Is this one about 14 years of employment or the one signed by a 25-year-old minister when she retired? So we should settle that before we raise our hand to the lady in question. And finally, I'd like to say why we're asking for a very different person to run here. Because the problems of children in Croatia are extremely high. In fact, we have well protected children in a normative sense, but indeed children in this country are quite unprotected. In several cases in this House, the discussions and reports of the former Ombudsman have shown that the system does not protect children as it should. Today you can read more and more about violence among children in schools, violence against children, child violence against teachers. You can also read unfortunately about child abuse in the family, on the street from your peers. Therefore, there are a lot of problems that children today in Croatia face, and unfortunately there is a lot of work that the lawyer will need to do. In this way as it started in this House, that a number of clubs will not support the lawyer and that she will actually have support from only one club, the HDZ Club is obviously not a good start for such a job that she should do. Therefore, a very bad start, and we fear that it could really come to the fact that the Ombudsman will not do what she was appointed to do, and we think that children should not suffer anyone’s experiments and no one’s learning for the next year so that after a year someone finds that he is unable to act in that capacity. And for that, once again, on behalf of the SDP Club if this candidate stays, we will not vote for her. And once again our appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to withdraw this candidate and to give someone who would be more competent to perform this duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50153	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50154	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. In fact, she may even have had 25 years of internships because she had a benefit at the same time, so she was 3 months old per year. ... No, I know how she worked, just let me, she was three months a year and that's four and a half years for this 14-year effective internship plus this one under parole... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Another group that had a defense group, and that's 25 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, a 37-year-old person, so at age 37, he gets an effective 10-year-old student. So plus a special internship, plus a certified internship, and otherwise it wasn't allowed, because you can't have two interns benefactored and special summed up which was a mistake again and in that process was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50155	Thank you. President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Furio Radin. You won't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a law on tourist land, first reading. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Tourism and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Please, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development of Bozidar Kalmet to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50157	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the draft law on tourist land. This Law, I would like to say this immediately at the beginning of treatment of land or land which is not assessed in the value of core capital, hotel houses or, or resorts of tourism, and the societies have used it in the order of the right to use the former social enterprise. So only this law treats so-called. The tourism land, therefore, which was not assessed in the basic capital of society, and the societies said it in turn before use I used it. This Law also states that I want to say right away in the introduction that they are not resolved nor can property relations be resolved in relation to the return of property. It solves another law so that this problem is not part of this law and it is, and it is not treated although, you will see later when it comes to the distribution of funds from the concession, I will say a little bit later on this Law foresees and provides additional funds for compensation to those people who, whose property has been taken away and the fee is as you know small that I do not say funny. But about that later. PRESIDENT: In 1991, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, Land in Camps and Unbuilding Building Land in Hotel-Tourist Villages has largely not been evaluated in the value of capital and so far this land has been unsolved, and because of the unresolved status of this land we have a whole series of problems. In 1996, for example, many tourism societies launched a large number of disputes in order to acquire ownership over the land. Because of the unresolved status of that land, we have the condition that investment is blocked on that land, there are no investments so that what we suggest is a good proposal. This proposal is also in line with the majority of those who are interested in resolving it so that I think it is one solution that will resolve this issue with one resignation, based on the assumption and the setting that this land will never be sold and that this land will always remain owned by the Republic of Croatia then I think of either the state or the unit of local self-government. And one of the greatest values of this law is that this land will not be sold, but it will be able to happen, investment happens. Such land is estimated at more than 100 million square meters and it is very attractive, not to mention the most attractive land on the coast because it is mostly land around hotel houses, camps or, or other, some other tourist complexes. This Law considers this land to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and this land will enjoy its special protection accordingly. The tourism land law addresses several issues, several basic issues. First, the concept of tourist land and the way it is used is defined. The second is the procedure for determining the concession and the right to build. Thirdly, there is a method of distribution of income from the basis of land use. In terms of tourism land, this Law distinguishes two concepts. First, tourist land in camps. And secondly, the tourist plot on which hotels and tourist resorts were built. In law, in the camps, this law says this, it proposes clearly that it be so. You're the one who's going to discuss it, finally state your point of view. It is therefore proposed that land in camps which have not been assessed in the value of the capital is owned by the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, we only talk about land that has not entered the fundamental capital of society. All other land, we do not discuss it or discuss land that has entered the core capital of society and wages. That's not what we're discussing. Because that's, that's settled, so. Only about land that did not enter the fundamental capital of society, and societies used it in the sequence of those former socialist societies and so on. So land in camps that have not been assessed in the value of capital is owned by the Republic of Croatia. If part of the land is estimated because we often have, I don't know, some receptions, catering facilities and sanitary facilities and so on, which are evaluated and paid, then it is proposed to establish a co-ownership community of the Republic of Croatia and the tourist society, but that community clearly has the right to first concessions. Not the first time because there is no sale we have said but has the right to the first concession, and the concession is determined according to market value and will be determined by a special act. Income from the concession, the revenue from the concession is divided by the following: 50% of the revenue goes to the Compensation Fund for the confiscation of assets. 50% of the concession revenue goes to the Fund as a fee, for the severance fee and the rest, the other half, so the other 50% is divided into three parts. One-third of the county, one-third of the city or municipality dependent, depending on where the land is located and one-third, and one-third of the state. The tourist plot on which hotels and tourist resorts were built, this bill proposes the following. So again, we're only talking about land that hasn't entered the fundamental capital of society. And it's not estimated, it's not paid. So the hotel-tourism society owns the building and clearly ground floor area of the land under the building. It's based on the Property Act and other... rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if he's got a building what's underneath it's like that, it's his. Secondly, the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning is determined by the Office of the State Administration in a given area a useful part of the plot without which the hotel or this tourist resort cannot function. So the useful part of the plot is determined. In case we only have a house, a hotel, and there's nothing around it. In that regard, nothing in this respect entered the underlying capital, then a useful part of the plot is determined and the useful part of the parcel is given in a priority concession to that society, the right to first concession or to priority concessions so that it does not happen if someone else gets a concession right outside the door of that hotel or that tourist resort. The other part of the land which is not in a priority concession, or which is not a useful part of the parcel, becomes owned, is the proposal of a clear unit of local self-government, and if the detailed plan or location permit makes it possible to build on that part clearly, so everything depends again on spatial planning documentation, the unit of local self-government will question competitions and give concessions or building rights in accordance with spatial planning documentation, but the unit of local self-government does not have that right, so this property does not have the right to sell. So there's no sale of that land, or concession or right to build. The revenue generated with the basis of the concession is again shared as in the previous case, so one half of the income is shared to the Trust for Retracted Assets which will create assumptions that all those people with whom the fee is ridiculously small that this fee is increased as much as possible and that the compensation is fair. It's the only thing this law could have done. I said at first because this law does not treat these issues and those traumas that were and the other half, the other 50% of the concession income is divided again into three parts of the state, the local self-government unit, the city or the municipality depending on whose territory it is and we told the state, the unit of local self-government and the county. So those three parts are equal ratios. What will be the effects of such a law? First, by declaring this tourist land of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, I think it guarantees the protection of the most valuable tourist spaces and resources in the coast. No sales, no sales, no sales of those best and most beautiful spaces. Secondly, long-term income from the use of the land is ensured both for units of local self-government, county, state, but it is also very important to ensure that the income that will go to the Trust for seized property and allow for an increase of that I said before that amount of compensation. And what is also very important and important is the development and investment cycle in these tourist plots. I said at the beginning that these tourist plots are blocked because of the unresolved state of ownership, there are no investments, no new facilities, no development, no new employment in tourism, no new investment in tourism, etc. etc. By this law, if he's clearly accepted as such, it'll disintegrate. This node will disappear and will allow one development investment cycle on the tourist land but always in a way that land will not be sold to anyone and it is one of the very valuable, if not the most valuable items in this law, in this bill. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to present in the shortest lines the bill. This law goes to first reading. We will listen carefully to all proposals, remarks and ideas and, as always, everything we consider to be an improvement compared to the proposed bill we will in any case respect and install into another reading. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50158	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50159	A little correction to the incorrect quote. Mr. Minister said that it is logical that that land that did not fall into the core capital becomes state property under those conditions of the local self-government unit. But that is not true, or we will do great injustice. What about private land? There is also land that has not been brought to a purpose, which needs to be returned to people under the Law on the return of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50160	The minister made proposals for a solution to the bill. You're assessing some of the solutions to the illogical ones, and you're reporting for a correction of an incorrect quote. Keep that in mind. It's not a matter of true or false, you've been correcting his logical court and proposals for a solution. These are the proposals for a solution. Do not report for corrections of incorrect allegations by contesting the proposals of certain solutions. Committee on Legislatives, Committee on Tourism, Honored President Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50161	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament at the 26th session held on 22 November 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 10 November 2005. The tourism committee considered the proposed law in question under Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body in the part relating to the concept and strategy of the development of Croatian tourism and the monitoring of concessions in tourism. It is noted in particular that the Committee on Tourism notes that the long-standing unresolved status issue of real estate, the large complex of land on which tourist buildings were built, and the values of which the land was not entered into the assessment of the value of social capital during the conversion and privatisation is a fundamental strategic problem of further development of tourism, organised a special session on the subject of problems and the possibility of resolving the property legal status of so-called tourism land which did not enter into the assessment of the value of the core capital of companies in the tourism sector. The thematic session of the Committee was held on 3 June 2004, and conclusions are drawn in the attachment of this report. I believe they arrived in the meantime or that they would arrive. The opening statement on the reasons for which this law is proposed as well as on issues which the same ones wish to settle, which is primarily the establishment of an institute of tourist land as good for the Republic of Croatia and for the land of strategic importance for the tourism development of the Republic of Croatia, was submitted by representatives of the proposings. In the general debate on the proposed law and the basic issues to be regulated in this law, the common position is that it is necessary to regulate and define ownership of land which has not been assessed in the course of the conversion and privatisation procedure and is not introduced into the value of the social enterprise. This would create legal certainty in terms of the use of the land and allow for new necessary investments, thus fostering a new development momentum in tourism. The debate also stressed that open issues of property-legal status should be resolved in a way that respects constitutional principles of equality before the law and guarantees of ownership, as well as the principles of justice and honesty. They fully respect national interests in the area of space protection, as the most valuable tourist resource, and in particular maritime goods, more clearly set out the criteria and principles of determining the level and method of award of concessions, ensure the ownership rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the rights of previous owners to recover the property, do not question the business interest of entrepreneurs in the field of hospitality, and in particular the hotel industry. In the discussion of the details and text of the proposed law, a number of opinions and doubts have been presented in relation to Articles 1 and 2 which define the Institute of Tourism Land, and the applicant should therefore demonstrate and interpret the constitutional basis of the Institute, but also explain the different treatment of property relations on that land, depending on whether a hotel, camp or tourist settlement is built on them. Article 3(3) laying down that the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first tourist land, but it is not clear from which land the Republic of Croatia buys it. This article should not prevent or slow down the possible sale of land to Croatian companies but should make it more appropriate to regulate the way and deadlines for the sale of this land, i.e. legally enable previous land owners to sell their land to the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These articles define the co-ownership of companies and the Republic of Croatia but do not provide for the possibility that the former owners of the land may be the same and where no return has been made in co-ownership with the company and the Republic of Croatia. Article 5 determines that land in camps whose value is not estimated in social capital in the process of conversion, i.e. privatisation, becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia. The issue is the introduction of double land transfer criteria, when it comes to camps, and those on which hotel facilities were built. It is not clear how to treat the land of tourist settlements within which hotels, camps, villas, pavilions are built, etc. The debate also found that the proposed law in certain provisions was incomplete and incomplete and that certain solutions were necessary to explain the sweating, in particular taking into account the provisions of the Constitution and the rules governing ownership and legal relations. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament by majority of votes, 5 for, 2 against and 2 abstentions. A proposal for a Law on Tourism Land is hereby adopted. Second, the comments, proposals, opinions delivered in the debate refer to the applicant for the final proposal of the law. The opinions and views of the Committee listed in this report will be given to you on the bench, so that I would not read it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50162	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President-in-Office of the Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50163	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 43rd session held today just before the session continued, discussed the proposal for a Law on Tourism Land. The proposal for a law has been discussed on the basis of the jurisdiction set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure, as a parent body. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of this law, which will address the problem of tourist land, i.e. land which is not assessed by the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation in the value of the social capital of legal persons carrying out catering and tourist activity. However, until the second reading of the law, the proposed provisions need to be reviewed in order to comply with other laws governing issues in this area, respecting constitutional principles of equality before law, property rights, and in particular the rights of former owners to return the seized property. The law also needs to elaborate more specifically on issues of co-ownership between the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government and companies. After the debate, the Committee unanimously supported, unanimously reached a conclusion adopting the proposal for a Law on Tourism Land. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. We also said that since he entered the procedure, but we still do not have the Law on Amendments to the Law on Property that it would be good at least in the second reading to combine the debate on this law as a lex specialis and the Law on Property as a general law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50164	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50165	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, keeping in mind the fact that certain hotelers since the conversion, it was out there in '92, early '93. but mostly in '92. until 2005 they used thousands and thousands of hectares, so on. tourist land and it's without a kuna fee. So, keeping that in mind, I can't say anything else down there that this law is necessary, useful and necessary. And certainly he is one of the important things that this Parliament could adopt in its four-year work. Let's just say, gentlemen, that someone can give you an Coversad 200 acres or a Lanterna 200 acres and that you can use that land in those camps without compensation, not for a year, two, three, five, but for, say, 10, 12 years. Well, in one year, you'd be solved for all your life's problems. Who's using it and who's picking up that profit on these properties? I don't know TDR, Count Elhz, etc. So, the richest people allow this country to be even richer. And that's why I said this law was necessary, that he was useful, that he was necessary. I am here in the Assembly once to be cynical, I suggest if it must already be so under quotes, and I believe it does not have to be better for the state to conduct, for example, a public competition through the lottery so that these hundreds of camps as many as Croatia has shared with its citizens for a year. A year he gets 100, a second year a hundred, and a third year a third hundred. Those 300 people in 3 years will solve all their problems in life. Of course that can't be the solution. I repeat, since '92. The years when the conversion began, the hotelers used thousands and thousands of hectares, so on. tourism land without compensation, and keeping in mind the speed of our administration. If today was about first reading, and it was good that it came to us, to follow the second, that it would take at least 3 months to come into force, because this matter must be arranged probably by sublegal acts, I'm afraid that our hotelers to the state, local self-government, etc. In 2006 we will not pay any kuna based on concessions. And God forbid I'm wrong about that. What's certainly worse than that, that these hotelers didn't pay these are the constant attempts of our hotel owners, it doesn't matter over these companies to register over these properties that are incomparably more valuable than their hotels. Such attempts were clear most in Istria. From this last opportunity you had to follow all over Croatia, it is the Lagoon from Novigrad to the former ones, like TDR, Riviera, Laguna, etc.. The IDS managed to prevent almost all these books. IDS, this is IDS. Clearly, you have to deal with the most powerful capital in Croatia, whether it's the Poreč Riviera, whether it's the TDR that controls Vrsar or Rovinj, whether it's Novigrad, whether it's Umag, Medulin, etc.. No one has dealt with this except IDS in Istria and this request is a defacto response to our demands. To remind you, the Adriatic tourist from Rovinj, they've prevented the book, today it's owned by the TDR, you have 200 acres. At Anita in Vrsar, TDR was also prevented from writing at 200 hectares. The Riviera has successfully prevented books of over 200 hectares, Laguni in Poreč also at over 200 hectares, Lagoons from Novigrad to some 60 and some hectares, Agrolaguns taken over by Todorovic today, over 600 hectares or 500 hectares, Arena tourist in Medulin at 60 hectares etc.. Why was all this happening mostly or most often in Istria? So because the conversions of these hotel companies that are relatively, come on, how they did business during the war first started in Istria. But before I mention once again the owners of these hotel companies that are the most powerful Croatian companies, this is the meaning of TDR, that is the Zagreb bank that controls Istria's tourist from Umag, TDR, Anita and Jadran tourist, the Industrial Bank that controlled Laguna, and sold it to Luksic, one multinational company under the auspices of the Croatian authorities at the time, there we managed to even raise the price that with 30 million marks at that time was some estimate that they could get Laguna, in the end Luksc pays more than 100 million marks which at that time could buy all hotels from Opatija to Dubrovnik and back. Then that land controls the holding home... It means the Porec Riviera. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Arena tourist are the Italians who bought the company on the market from a PIF expansion that was owned by the Czech-Americans etc., etc. Finally, let's remember this latest thing that happened during this summer, and that's Liburnia from Opatija. But where there is now the key to understanding this problem. I'm gonna say it one more time, it all starts with conversion. It all started in 92, 93, meaning during the war, refugee drama when 1/3 of Croatia was occupied, when average wages were about 150 marks, average marks of 80 marks, etc. That's that Article 5. So without reviewing, converting and privatizing, which clearly is no longer possible today. I think all of this is going to be a farce in some way, I'm not going to say it's going to be a farce, but it's going to end up how it's going to end. But clearly, the revision of the conversion is behind us today, and we better not go back to it when our courts after the audits have imposed only two suspended sentences and two fines, regardless of what we will all agree that it was one of the biggest robberies in Croatian history on Wednesday. In 93, 92, 92, and 92, banks enter Croatian tourism on the basis of revolving and previously paid loans. Who, for example, is going to review the business of these foreign-owned privatised banks today? And why did this happen, why did this revaluation of previously paid loans occur? Because former or present in many places are directors, these hotel companies fearing that their hotels will fall under the Croatian Privatisation Fund, meaning under a political decision, preferred to agree to revaluation of paid loans and all with a view to preserving their investment jobs because they knew that they would be able to operate more easily with bankers. There was then an unreal estimated value of real estate and fortunately because of this socialist chaos that at the time or until then ruled out in these companies because no one cared about the property, in the garneries, etc., from the core capital left out land. So today, as the minister said, we can talk about 2 thousand 200 acres in camps and another 10,000 acres by the sea. But also in this place, let us not forget about agricultural land. It should be treated in the same way as tourist land. For example, 500 to 600 hectares of agricultural land we have managed to slow down Agrolaguns from Poreč, which today is owned by Agrokor, Mr. Todorovic but no one can know what fate this land will receive tomorrow. Supposedly, if the trend of moving to Istria continues and today we have 30 thousand more voters, it means in 2005, which was 93, that a relatively soon will come the day when some of these properties will have to be urbanized. I repeat once again, IDS has led to the making of this law but the problems are next. The best of the largest Istrian hotel companies everywhere is over 100 million kuna. And it is clear that retroactively no one from that gain will pay anything to use this land but surely the future part and gain must be directed to use that land, either to the state, or to local self-government, or to the county. As for the distribution in this law. This mentions the payment of half of the money from the concession on the Fund for the Return of Nationalised Assets. So the question arises as to what we intend to do with the compensation of the Austrians, more specifically, some contracts have been discussed recently, which the Croatian government has concluded with the Austrian government on this basis. Of course, the Austrians, i.e. The Germans didn't have much real estate by the sea, except for the abbey hotels, which were mostly owned by Italian citizens or companies in the 1930s. Or another question to ask what will happen to the return of property to the Italians? I just want to say that at this point, the government must stick to the international agreements that ex Yugoslavia has signed and any attempt to improvise in this field can cause Croatia enormous damage. I also claim that this optanic issue has been resolved, that the subject of its claim must be resolved in Rome, not in Zagreb or Ljubljana, however, there are 5236 people who have received the so-called ". The discharge from Yugoslav citizenship and the fate of their property was nationalisation and will likely be treated as other Croatian citizens who are in a similar position when these camps and this land are, for example, in Dalmatia, in Dalmatia. Clearly, if our people are owners somewhere, the land should be returned to the foundation of the Denationalization Act. And I don't see why you're waiting here. Clearly, they need to be forbidden by spatial plans to be able to transfer that land, I don't know, that it can be built there, etc. As far as paying goes, 2/3 goes to the state, 1/3 goes to local self-government. The states belong to camps, what's most valuable, what carries clean money, local self-government belongs to land around the hotel. Okay. It's not that small either, it's a lot more than we've had so far. However, in order not to end it turns out that the state rents camps, and local self-government has to cut grass, cut roses, bathe and water flowers around these hotels and all for nothing. Hoteliers belong to see land under the hotel, in front of the parking lot, under the pool, installations, etc. So they can keep it tight, and they won't need the rest clearly, so local self-government will be one immobilized asset they'll have to worry about. But I said it and it's incomparably better than what we have today. As regards Article 3(3), which speaks of the law of the championship, i.e. First of all, it probably won't be anything because the state has no money, and there's no policy designed to do what with concessions, and what's best seen from the 2006 budget where it's going to be coming in under concessions of less money than in 2005 and the country in 2006 will de facto take over under quotes 12 thousand hectares of so on. tourist land. However, it has always been state land, but so far, the government has not wanted to deal with it as if we simply wanted to help the richest people in this country, the tycoons, because what I do know is that something needs to be "slight" under quotes, too. But let me say, the 2005 concession fee was received by gentlemen 441 million kuna, 2004. – 575 million kuna, 2006 and 2007 are planned exactly 350 million kuna per year. It's one disproportionate thing that I just don't understand. However, all in all, let this law enter the second reading as soon as possible, primarily because of the revenues the state can make, local self-government, county for defining the relationship between the state and the hotelers, due to the launch of investments because, in the last 15 years, gentlemen have not built five new hotels without counting the restoration of the devastated socialist buildings. The Adriatic has become a hit, Kempinski is coming to Umag, to Barbara, Dragoner, Hilton is already in Dubrovnik and the Adriatic can run Croatia although Croatia clearly cannot live on tourism alone. From tourism only can not live Opatija or Rovinj and let alone the whole of Croatia, but the multiplicity effects are excluded. For the last two sentences. This is a good law, an important law, a useful law for the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately this law is 12 years late and it is time to adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50166	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So colleague Cain said the IDS managed to prevent books on the businesses of this tourist land. I could also agree with him that he may have succeeded as an IDS party that has conducted practical policy in the whole of Istria since practically from democratic changes in here, but I would not agree with him about it, because he has also managed to enroll in a number of forests and forest land in that area, which the State's Attorney's Office has been challenging for several years and in that part is the correction of the wrong allegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50168	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50169	So my very dear and lovable colleague Damir Cain, who is usually consistent in his inconsistency, said the following: "IDS has launched an initiative to go into the draft of this law." If that were true, and I believe it is completely incorrect, then I ask you a question, dear colleague Cain: Why in Istria County where IDS for 15 years is the absolute master of government, a million and 200 thousand square meters of agricultural land in the most attractive places transformed into building land. If you don't know that, ask your party leader and mayor of your county. Then when it comes to the so-called. forest land where it is being re-used for agricultural land, and these are those plots where there were once vineyards and olive groves, as much as there has been abuse in your county, so it is not intended for that so-called. A forest in agricultural rather than construction. And if we were to sum it up, we'd get that in Istria, in the worst possible way, a million and 500 thousand square meters of agricultural land was robbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50170	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50171	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who mentioned a number of 5,000 and 300 of those who were written out of the former state's citizenship, clearly fear that they would not ask for any satisfaction from the current state tomorrow. The number's not right, it's 3 grand and 200. But I've still got my eye on your exposure where you're actually afraid of moving people to Istria. And what could we say in Slavonia or in particular in the County of Brod-Posavina where we got 25 thousand Posaviak, and left the Serbs with the Bosnian Posavina?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50172	Thank you very much. We have another correction, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this law is full of absurdities, but one absurdity was said by fellow Cain. A colleague, Cain, claimed that this law leaves land to local self-government. ... Yes, it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Read the stenogram and you'll see. Of course, Article 22 of the bill says: "the remaining land is transferred to the property of units of local self-government" and that is what you have bought. And look what the following article tells you: "The unit of local self-government cannot alienate or otherwise dispose of the land referred to in Article 22." Do you know what property content is? Well, at your disposal. Well, then this one doesn't give away property. ... You said that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's an absurdd of this law. Moreover, that land can only be given through competitions in accordance with the implementation plan, i.e. the urban plan. And you know who already sat on that land? Well, these are the absurdities of this law, indeed. It's inaccuracy, a couple of excellents.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50174	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister with his associates. Here, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, they can say at first that the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this Law on Tourist Land, i.e. to support this Proposal for a Law on Tourist Land which is before us, because it addresses actually one important issue for the tourism economy and finally addresses the situation in this area and provides further quality tourism development. It also provides for a fair fee and a schedule of concession fees in such a way that 50% of the funds are paid to the Fund for the compensation of the seized property, while the remaining 50% is equally paid to the state, county and local self-government units in which the tourist land is located. The introduction of this tourism land institute is also important for those who participated in the process of conversion and privatisation, whose core capital was not included, the estimated value of tourist land is included. Therefore, this is exclusively the case, as Mr. Minister pointed out in his opening statement, of land that did not enter the core capital of the companies that had until then. Because it hasn't entered, so neither into conversion nor later into privatisation. So we had one actually mess, we could say. We had one legal mess because these societies that were privatised ultimately to someone, in some order of use of the society before and continued to use the same land that was no longer owned by them, because they did not pay the kuna for it in the privatisation process. However, they continued to be used and they were coming into a position to give even parts of that land into lease, which, of course, was not possible because it was essentially not their land and they didn't give for it, I say, nor the kuna. It was also not possible to perform any new constructions on that land. Of course, there is also a need for new construction although there is also a need to complete the renovation of all hotel facilities. But clearly, there is also a need and a need to build new tourist facilities for the development of a further quality tourist product in Croatia. And of course, because of the inability to apply evidence of ownership of the same land, it was not possible to obtain a building permit and it is clear that, in some ways, those companies that had no legal basis and used the same tourist land, were in one legal inconsistencies, let's call them that. It is crucial that this Proposal for a Law on Tourist Land finally solves this Institute of Tourist Land and we are in a position to solve this problem in a quality way and put it "ad act" in the way this is proposed, and with which we in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community absolutely agree. And this is that the moment this tourist land is assigned to units of local self-government, and is primarily thought of as tourist land around the hotel and surrounding tourist settlements. So that this tourist land will no longer be sold. In our opinion, this is very good and also as far as camps are concerned, it is important that this tourist land enters the property of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia will continue to take care of it. I think, that is, we are in the Club that units of local self-government will, in this way, be in a position to dictate the pace of development in this area, so in the area of the tourism economy. And of course as an interested party and as owners, like those who have such tourist land will determine the best purpose of the land and how it will be dealt with in the future. The fact is that today we have more than 22 million square meters of such land and also other land, tourist land around tourist complexes such as tourist resorts and hotels, according to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's assessment. We have more than 80 million, so a total of over 100 million square meters of such land will be covered by this Law. Which means there's finally going to be order in that space. I would still show satisfaction that as someone said we were too late, but still in time because today when Croatia's hit destination is certainly to build land, especially building land which is drawn in spatial-planned documents and defined as the area in which the hotel tourist economy will develop is of exceptional strategic importance and above all value. And in that sense, I think it's still and still on time, that it's not too late and that we're really making this law in time to settle this problem. Here finally, I think this is how you correct that injustice in the privatisation process when the land was in some way excluded, but maybe it's even good. Maybe it's even good that this land was somehow removed from the side and that today we're deciding about it. Today, when it is much clearer how Croatia wants to develop, how it wants to retain its identity, when it is clear that even after the regulation that has been passed, we have banned the construction primarily in that coastal belt. Because we don't want any further apartmentization, we don't want any further devastation of the coast. It is clear that in this way we will enable a more quality development of the tourism economy and that we will ensure a better position for our Croatian tourism, as well as for all our citizens and citizens who will be engaged in this activity. In this sense, I would once again like to show satisfaction in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club with this proposal for a law. Of course there's more inconclusiveness, this is the first reading, and I hope that in the debate and that there will be concrete proposals from all those who participate. And that improved text will, of course, be before us and in other readings, but in any case we support the final solution to this problem and we suggest that it be supported. In any case, we will vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50176	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50177	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Croatian Government. This Law which has been late for some 13 years since the 96th Law said that a special law would be passed on this land that was not part of the conversion and entry into the basic capital of tourist companies. That special law is what we've welcomed today. But we at the club are not entirely satisfied with this law. Namely, I'd just like to tell the history of how we've come to this problem right now. Most hotel companies or perhaps almost everything on the Adriatic were created so that the best parts of the land were taken away by the will of local self-government units, so then the municipalities of the citizens and given to hotel companies. The best parts. Some of these companies, of course, recorded these lands as their property, some of them indeed led it as their property according to some expropriation papers, and there were also completely unclear situations in which the land was registered, but the property did not exist. So, one full cabbage regarding ownership relations, but what matters is that the hotels used it peacefully. It's someone else's property peacefully used. And then comes the privatisation that brings the new absurd, which is that the hotel company was privatized, the new owner buys the same piece of land, and uses a huge complex around it without paying anything, so often not paying the utility fee. What it looks like on a typical example is the situation of the hotel company Borik. So they bought, so the Austrian owners bought 57,000 squares, so this is this little yellow one, and they use it without paying anyone 333 thousand squares, so this is all green. They use elemental mathematics, so they use land that's six times bigger than the one they actually paid for, and they don't pay anyone anything for it. It's somebody's land, it's somebody's garden, it's somebody's yard, it's somebody's piece of forest, it's somebody's field, it's nobody's land, it's taken from someone's garden, it's somebody's backyard, it's somebody's backyard, it's somebody's field, it's somebody's land, it's someone's land, it's taken from someone's backyard, it's somebody's somebody's backyard, it's somebody's somebody's somebody's a piece of wood, it's somebody's somebody's land, it's somebody's property, it's taken from somebody's property, and if we respect the right of private property in this country, then the state can's not even become a local self-government, it's owned by the owner, it's the owner's owned of land, it's owned by someone else's land, it's owned by someone else's land, it's owned by someone else's property, it's owned by someone else's land, it's property, it's taken by someone else's own, it'cause it'cause it's somebody else'cause it' 'cause it' 'cause it' it' it' it' it' it' it' it' 'cause it' 'cause it' 'cause it' 'cause it' 'cause it' 'cause it' it' it' it' it' 'cause if we' it' it' it' That's what this is about. So, no matter how we try to cover it up with the law, we won't do well if we go this way, but only with a law like this can we raise tourist lobbys with their capital and so seal the kidnapping from the communist era. That's actually what my people are about. It's fantastic for me when the minister tells me here that there is no law like this that stops investment in tourism. It's a poor country that depends on the capital that bothers paying the concession on what he's been using so far, it's a poor country, really. So it's crystal clear that they either have to pay fat or they have to return it and there's no third. Now, Europe only knows two types of ownership, so either state or private. There is no quasi private land with which local self-government or state governs on behalf of the owner, without the owners themselves wanting it, and that is what is proposed by this law. So, you have a garden, someone takes it away from you, then a state like Robin Hood shows up and takes it away from whoever took it away, but doesn't bring it back to the first owner, but gives it to the local self-government that she decides by her hand what concession she's gonna pay for it all together, and I'm sure the concession on how much the hotel house will pay with the hotel house itself, so that they might not be at risk in business because they've used it for sure zero kuna per metre square. So it's crystal clear where this whole thing will end if it goes on like this. So the owners will remain without their land, and the hotel house will pay, say, 16 kuna per metre square to make more money on it. Therefore, the Law on the Compensation of property seized during the communist rule in Article 17(1) clearly states that land which has not been translated for use shall be given to the previous owner on his request. Therefore, no hotels are built on this land, it must be able to return, and as the right to buy me first in this law is mentioned here, it is really interesting from which Croatia can as a state have the right to buy first. The right of first purchase Croatia can only have from former owners, i.e. from those owners of which the land has been taken away, and then the right can be first acquired by either local self-government or the Croatian state, but the situation in which the state and local self-government are placed as some mediator of their protection, hence the protection of those citizens from whom the land has been taken away, but in a way that they do not participate as former owners in the definition of the concession contract and indeed absurd and unconstitutional. Therefore, former owners must participate in the conclusion of concession agreements or the state must act with the right of first purchase, but not from the "Borik" and similar ones who use it taken away and mukts, but from former owners. So let the state buy the land from them nicely, so let it give it to whoever they want or let local self-government do it, and another possibility is that in that body that will decide what concession the former owners must participate in, for for God's sake it is their land. No one else can judge on their behalf. And now another concrete example of what it looks like on Hvar. The hotels "Helios" in the Old Town use land that was expunged, or nationalized, by another municipality of Hvar in the 1980s, on that land are today tennis courts, sports courts, a small village of bungalows, this land is as well known to me as the property of Helios, but it has not entered what is most interesting in the core capital, and what has happened? Since this is not the underlying capital, former owners cannot get shares and reservations for this land, they have nicely sued Old Town as the legal successor of the former Hvar Municipality and we have 26% monthly commission on all incomes received by the town of Stari Grad. It's a momentary situation. So, these owners have fought that way, I don't, of course, invite all the owners to do it because we're going to cause a lot of trouble to all our local self-government, but you'll forgive it's completely absurd that local self-government knows better than the former owners themselves, which is their interest. So either we buy that property from former owners, so cities and local self-government or we declare it a share of core capital, so we give these people shares to participate in the supervisory board and in the administration, and I'm very interested in what it would look like then in "Borrick," so that it looks like the Supervisory Board and the ownership stakes in "Borik" or we'll solve it all together so that the citizens whose land they're taking part in the body that determines what the concession will be, but without them, decisions can't be made, because I repeat, this is all just a replacement of one illegal property with other illegal property, and our goal is to deprive those of whom the country is not subject to the right of local self-government to plan its own space and to take care of the interests of that city. This situation is therefore unsustainable, and it is good that the government has made such a leap to try to regulate an existing complete ruin in that area at all, but we don't think this model is good. He definitely needs to work on one or three ways I mentioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50178	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50179	Yes, it sounds nice, what both the law and Mr. Tadic is talking about is the right of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia, but no kuna is provided in the budget, so there will be nothing in the first place. That's the point. The state will not come into possession under the right to buy a single square metre of land because it did not provide a single kuna for that purpose, at least not in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50180	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50181	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that we of the SDP Representatives Club will, of course, support the need to discuss this bill. The second question is what law in its content and normative and materially-legal form should look like. The second thing I want to suggest is that this bill no matter what my thoughts about it has its own legal, economic, social, cultural, development and spatial and whatever character you want. And that is why it is very important to discuss this bill, and it cannot be discussed as simplisticly as possible, nor can it be said that it needs to be adopted quickly and as soon as possible. The truth of the will he is late in procedure to appear in the parliamentary procedure for adoption but if he has waited so many years then he can wait for some time to get one quality law. Thirdly, what is important to say about this bill is that this bill should be brought into line not only with constitutional provisions and the principle of justice and equality but also with other laws governing ownership relations, and above all by the Law of Property and other real rights. The fourth thing that we have to point out on behalf of our club is the fact that at the same time as we are already discussing the Law on Tourist Land in the Croatian Parliament is addressed, although not in the agenda but it is addressed to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights which, among other things, changes the availability of properties owned by units of local self-government and that provision, changes exceptions to the conversion of management rights, use and availability of provisions, changes the provision on the right of united land and unlisted buildings very interesting and legal foundations. And look, it's completely illogical that these two bill proposals are being discussed separately from each other. It was necessary to postpone the debate on the proposal for a Law on Tourism Land until the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act has been completed and the debate is brought together and discussed jointly. Well, what's there? When such a situation is what it is, then let me warn you of one very important question actually that we regulate by this law. We regulate the so-called so-called law. the legal regime of a particular matter or in a specific case of real estate which we now give a new name for the first time. For the first time, we get such a property called tourist land. We haven't had any tourist land yet. We had room for tourism, recreation and rest, etc. in spatial planning but tourist land as a special category of land we didn't have. Of course, if it's from that point of view, the question is asked, then it's quite clear that this law is not true that the Institute of Tourism Land is being arranged because you didn't even have it, but this law establishes the Institute of Tourism Land and has yet to be arranged. Now you see, how it's arranged is the question that's very important to consider. We in the same law have confused the principles, above all the principle of ownership rights and the second principle of equal ownership rights for the same entities in relation to the property that is being arranged and that is tourist land. And what do we say is tourist land? We say that tourist land is a property in campsites, land under hotels or commercial societies and in tourist settlements. Well, we have an entirely unequal legal position of legal entities in relation to such tourist land. In addition, we are doing further nationalisation with this law, of course, and two basics. In one piece of this law, we nationalize land from units of local self-government that are under the Law on Local Self-Government of 92 and later in fact become the legal owners of real estate land which is not covered by privatisation if it is not of course aquatic good, if it is not maritime good and those land that are excluded. And now, at the same time, we say, for example, it won't be owned by local self-government units anymore if it's a camp, and I know the units of local self-government that have become camp owners because the privatisation of these land has not been assessed by the camps and, among other things, they have signed up as the owners of the units of these properties. Now we tell them it's not yours anymore. The second thing we say to them is you won't be able to participate in the land that belongs to the camps as co-owners or owners because it belongs exclusively to the relationship between a possible company and a camp or state but in hotel lands you will be able to participate. And what we offer them, as property rights. No, we don't offer them property rights. We offer them so-called. "supply yus" or "naked right" because they are actually elements of the ownership rights content cannot be achieved either from the point of view of use or from the point of view of availability, no availability is prohibited, except that through spatial planning they can prescribe the conditions and criteria of possible use of that land. This is something quite different, and in such a situation it is quite clear that these five categories of relationships are added to the additional part that at the same time units of local self-government can appear as co-owner compared to the hotel that this hotel company can be co-owner of the camp and that at the same time the camp is co-owner with the state. Now the question arises who will resolve a whole series of these legal relations that occur in that segment. I don't think in all these segments this law has been completed. He has set up in principle possible relationships but he has not elaborated them and in this respect he has not fulfilled at all the fundamental function that the law in this segment must have, and that is to prescribe exactly that legal regime that wants the tourist land that needs... So we can discuss whether tourist land should be introduced as a special category, as a special institute, its legal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, but you need to see, now work it out to the end, etc. by the fact that the rights of ownership acquired as a Constitution guaranteeed rights must not be touched. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's not just the right of ownership that concerns, among other things, the property created by the privatisation of companies, it's not. You know, there's also a part of the companies that were created by the original investment, not through privatisation. There's a part of the land that's been taken away and that's never been carried out through books. Look out, it's declared social. It has been used as social and thus has been operated and managed as social but has never been awarded in land-book parts. And now we're telling these former owners that even though they're going to apply the Retracted Property Act, but they're going to get a fee, they're not going to get a natural restitution, they're going to get land. Well, you see, it's actually one form of disguised new nationalization. This shall not happen and that part shall be elaborated in this segment. And if you want to go on cash compensation then only a market fee must be prescribed with... And with all the other parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fifth thing that we need to elaborate clearly is the question not only of concession fees but of very interesting whether the concession includes the right to build or is the right to build a special procedure in relation to the concession decision. It seems according to the law that it is set up to be a special procedure and that at the same time whoever gets a concession to use land regardless of whether it is a camp and I'm going to say something else about it, either it's a tourist resort or it's a hotel, that if he wants to build something new and ask for an additional permit, get those permits and then pay an additional fee. Now, when this is the case, the question is raised why Article 26 does not stipulate that, in addition to establishing the right of ownership, in addition to establishing and awarding the concession, a commitment to the State’s attorney’s office for the property and legal part of the business that, in fact, in this part relating to the compensation for the right of construction also gives its consent. Otherwise, it will be a whole series of discretionary relations and willfulness and even possible relationships that will smell of different forms of bribery and corruption. The fifth, which should be quite clear and precise in this segment, is actually a question that, in fact, the fifth group of problems that are being raised is the question of whether the burden of such responsibility and the rights as are prescribed in Article 12 may be borne by the minister. The Minister is attributed to the following: the Minister responsible for the affairs of the sea and tourism sets out the criteria: to determine the time limits on which the concession is given, the criteria for calculating the level of concession fee for the use of the camp and the level of concession fee for the primary concession on the maritime goods and so on. Now first, let's see what camp is. Look, in order to establish a camp in its own time and so far in force not only did you have to have a planned tourist zone in which this part would be carried out and have a campsite plot but you had to set up a camp under the Construction Act with all units within the camp not which individual buildings are established. And now all of a sudden you have the application of the Construction Act and now the question is whether you are giving a concession for the entire camp or giving a concession additionally within the camp for every camp user on a building plot. And the third question which law will you apply? Property Act or Construction Zone Act or Tourism Land Act? I think it's such a serious problem. On behalf of our Club, we want to point out all these problems with the goal of actually making this law a major, important step forward until the second reading. So it's not our goal to remove this topic, but this topic deserves a very serious debate and an expert from various aspects, but in any case, there remains a very important question here how to resolve certain things? In addition, another segment is introduced here to determine by administrative procedure the right of ownership. Therefore, regular court proceedings are excluded as a procedure which should be established, because if administrative proceedings are not reached, then administrative disputes will be carried out. The question now arises, therefore, what about the claim of determining the property that will be used by natural persons. So, of course, as former landowners, especially those who have the right to return and so on. I think that these questions should also be enlightened and should be put in a certain dimension so that key things can actually be seen or better said goals that we want to achieve. And what exactly do we want to achieve? We want to achieve that part of the land that is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by law for it by such a regime that will enable the protection of this particular interest of the Republic of Croatia. First, to decontamination, second, so that it doesn't contaminate ecologically. Third, that land should be healthy if you want it to be environmentally correct. And fourthly, to ensure, at the same time, that it is put into economic function here specifically in tourism, and that it would practically make certain contributions and allow the development of units of local self-government, development... Of course, at the end of the day, he gets for the community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is, what kind of land are you thinking about? Are you referring to tourist land just by the shore? Or is it meant to be a tourist plot on the continent? And unfortunately, if you say tourist land, then you can't rule out everyone else; rural tourism, hunting tourism and that I don't list all that appear as forms of tourism in which tourism probabilities can appear, as well as tourism land and quite different legal and ownership relations established on the basis of this "EZ" and so on in the area of the continental Republic of Croatia, which this Law does not provide at all. Now these questions need to be resolved and settled before we decide to refer the law to the final draft of the law in the parliamentary procedure and to come to a position to come to that part so that we can vote of course. Of course we also have to say here that some of the claims that have been made don't stand, you know. It is said that if the conversion process did not form a special land particle of changed land and so on, the estimated land and so on. Carefully, it was not possible to estimate if there was no particle. You know. So some of the things that you're saying here simply by logic, things can't stand. And that's why it needs to be further examined, too, but there's something that's quite clear is the question of whether it's possible when it comes to ground floor land, this is where the hotel buildings are said, but what about so-called. the functional need of land parcels to carry out basic activities? It's not just a floor surface beneath the building. It is something broader and it is, it is somewhat wider and how much wider it needs to be assessed from case to case and yet such, these elements need to be laid down by law by the above and lower limit which must be taken into account when making up that Regulation which will be adopted by the Minister in order for the minister to actually be covered by the law based... The foundation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise they will not be able to bring them in accordance with the Constitution and such, these rules will have to be published naturally in the National, National Journal. This is very important and in this segment it is very important to take care of another fact. If such a law were to remain as it is now, it would open up the entire avalanche of new legal disputes of property and legal nature from the establishment of property rights to the issue of determining fees and of course procedures for obtaining ownership rights. I just want to remind you of the camp case. I'm telling you that most of the hotels that run and use the camps would now actually go to prove that, according to the former Construction Act, they built these camps. That they had the right to make themselves available and the right to use and that, in fact, through assessment, privatisation covered these camps. Maybe they didn't pay them, and they'd ask them to pay for not paying, not losing... We must therefore take this situation very seriously because, among other things, this Law may have consequences for harmonising the legal property of the Republic of Croatia with the plantings of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we must very carefully approach this to protect the values that we want to protect and leave in the interest of not only the Republic of Croatia but also the generations that are coming, but at the same time we must not expose ourselves to the fact that in this way we have played the European Union which would not be, it would not be good, and that is not the intention of this bill, but within it is the content of a particular solution that has not yet been worked out and should be developed and done until the final proposal of the law. There is time, but in this context, it is certainly necessary to make sure that the amendment and addition of the Law on, I return to it again, on ownership and other real rights, this one that has been offered is not enough to bring this Law into line with it. And secondly, when it is discussed, the second reading of the law needs to be combined to ensure that both discussions are common and that this issue can be fully settled. If it is not reached by the end of the year then at the beginning of next year, we have the opportunity to declare it and actually to show this issue and a very difficult hot potato which is of interest not only to the present but also to future generations of the Republic of Croatia by protecting our interests while at the same time showing a high degree of tolerance and democracy and opening up the possibility of establishing civil and legal relations that bring growth and development to this country and to this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50182	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that it would be better to discuss the Law of Property and other real rights in parallel. Well, I think we can coordinate it in the further process, and that's what's going on, me. Thank you very much. Here we go. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50183	It'll make a better living. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club welcomes the debate on this Bill proposal, and at first I must say that this is certainly from independence, namely one of the most serious legal dilemmas, legal disputes and the same for legal theorists, legislators, executive power and the economy. So the fact that since 1991 has not seriously dealt with this matter speaks of the seriousness of this matter. Legal but, of course, economic and economical, as well as the one that says that things must also be regulated in accordance with the law, but also in accordance with morality and in accordance with justice, in accordance with all those that make the values of a society. We therefore welcome this bill. And right from the start I want to point out, because it's good to get back to the very beginning when this problem, if I may call it that, was created. By transforming economic social enterprises, it should have been implemented in accordance with the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and with Article 2 strictly prescribed methodology for determining social capital. In that simple way, the total assets of the companies were rejected and further developed in the way in which the methodological content of the conversion was achieved. At the same time, the tourism ministry then concluded, which then characterised the tourist land to propose its exclusion from the assessment so that the same land would try to rent or concession its users by a later law. So I'm talking about '91. The Croatian Privatisation Fund and the competent authorities respected the decision. And there's been an exclusion of what's-his-name. the concept of tourist land from a methodology which established the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the process of the conversion of social enterprises. In the meantime, since '91. laws have been passed here that have affected the ownership status of these properties, but which, again, because of their indetermination or incoordination with other laws have never resolved the accumulated problems in relation to the status of this unrated land or property. The famous Article 47, which is the subject of this content dispute, and legal theorists as well as the bodies that need to apply it or those applying the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, all agree on one. Article 47 is unspeakable, so almost everyone interprets it as they will, from the beginning to the present, or as it pleases him. And in practice, it has led to conflicting attitudes, a series of disputes, and it has not solved the basic problem of unrated real estate. Therefore, land books are generally referred to as social property today. I'm gonna stop there for a while. They're still being held as social property today. I'll be back in '50. A year or about '50. the year when nationalization was conducted, when land was based on the decision of the then government being taken and given to whom, by companies at the time. But be careful, perhaps an unknown fact. Even then it wasn't on property, no, on use. What does that mean? That these companies still today, even if not assessed, do not have status property over that land. Because by decision of the '50s until '56. years it's been given to use. So they were never the owners. Why? Because even then, I suppose, it was assumed that being taken away without compensation could never, in a legal sense, resuscitate and become a real property. So let's not make a mistake today in 2005, the same one that happened in the '50s. Let's not put what's definitely not the subject of state property into any new traffic regime, whether it's real estate, rent or sell. Because we don't deal with our property, and our property, I mean, the object of what we're talking about today is state property. So I want to very clearly withdraw the distinction between the concepts of how they happened. What our land record is and what it fits today on these properties and on that so-called so-called property. tourist land? It doesn't, of course, correspond to the actual condition. Because he doesn't keep and doesn't show the owner of these properties. And by natural things, that's clearly what's causing the problem. Has something changed by the law of ownership and other real rights? By law of property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule? They've been laws since '97. A year. Unrated property status not resolved. He's further, unfortunately, even complicated. In addition, the provisions of the Property Act and other real rights which have introduced the principle of property and property unity into the system have raised a number of issues regarding the acquisition of ownership rights and of unrated properties, whether or not evaluated at the time of conversion. So the space opened on multiple sides. That is why my colleague Arlovic's proposal is not only acceptable, but it is necessary if we want to solve this problem. Because what happens in the meantime? The trading companies did not stay in those positions. Today's assessment of how much space there is for tourist land is for me, it would be too ambitious if anyone said it, because no one has at this point an assessment of how many disputes are being conducted on these land. How many disputes have already been settled in the first or second degree? What are the legal processes that happen on that? I'm just saying this for a reason because the Committee on Tourism organized an almost round table on this particular topic where our excellent legal theorists, scientists, law writers, almost everyone who is related to this matter. And, unfortunately, I have to tell you right now, because some of my colleagues, the board members, were there. We wanted to get all of them a measure of response, a legal response, a legal position from those who did the laws, from those who testified through their office by the President of the Supreme Court, members of the Constitutional Court, administrative judges. We couldn't get an unmistakable interpretation. It's just that what we're saying here today is constant. And on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm joining it. What isn't estimated isn't even paid. This must be either paid at market prices, at prices that are in order to say "fer prices" or can be given for use in those circumstances in which we will not harm the property right of the other. So, the preconditions that are being set for this law to be fully adjusted and that we must not forget the economy. It would be inconclusive to forget the businessmen who have serious problems in the hotel industry, gentlemen. The hotel industry is today the lowest-accumulated branch. The question is, what is the return on investment capital in tourism? Who can say that here with certainty today? He's not big. The minister also says, saying there are no new investments in Croatian tourism, there have been no new hotels in Croatia since '91. over here. What's he talking about? If the accumulation that the rate is low, the profitability is low in the hotel industry. The benefits are not what they are in other countries. There are 78 hotels in Turkey to be completed by 1.6. Until 1.6, gentlemen. And you know what foundations hotels are built on? On state land that has been leased in the long term under conditions I keep saying that 80% of the products produced in Turkey must be installed, etc. etc. So here when a whole series of very serious topics are opened, the legal position Mr. Arlovic has very well explained, I will not repeat it because I have no qualifications for it, but I have qualifications to say that it is a problem that must be solved between the economy that provides services to the hotel, restaurant, tourism or other activities and are located everywhere in Croatia gentlemen, not just on the Adriatic. Between local self-government, which is a very important factor not because it would get its oil well so it could increase the budget, so it could have instead of 20 million 40 million instead of being responsible as an important participant, because local self-government cannot be amnested from the fact that the conditions for hotelers and new investments are not good. No one has been amnested nor has the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but no local self-government, because local self-government must also create better conditions. It cannot be a communal fee that burdens business profitability. Therefore, we must all acknowledge our mistakes here, point out our right, but also find a solution that will reconcile on one side of the economy, on the other hand local self-government, but also protect the fundamental interests of this country, the fundamental interests that this Parliament must always represent, which is that our most valuable spatial resources must be protected not only for our lives but also for generations behind us. Therefore, this issue is closely linked to the issues that our negotiators will be very soon leading to the negotiation of land status with our European counterparts. Are we going to be able to fight status for ourselves, by way of a five-year-old ring, for 10 years? Are we going to be able to fight our status for agricultural land to give through concessions our country to manage all those who want to produce it, who want to create new jobs, who want to produce Croatian food, and let them be called what I want and let them have the nationality I want, but let them do it on the basis of concession and lease. Therefore, this law is much more than he tries to solve with his very limited possibilities in his articles he is causing enormous attention and causing our unquestionable need to think more seriously between the first and second readings on how to use this law to regulate on one side the fairness of the return of those who have been taken away from the property, those from Punta Mike who have been trying for a number of years to reach their assets that have been fenced by large walls, barriers, and within that fence, there is even a private house. So it didn't have to look as great as it looks, it could have been smaller, but then it was thought that it was better to cover more for the people to remain less, but let's not confirm such a rule of conduct now, because by confirming the rules that were bad, of course we won't bring new quality than we have to correct mistakes from the past so that we can create a law that will be just, which will be developed and which will show what might be most important, the seriousness of this country to deal with serious problems in a serious but just but also in a legal way. I therefore propose that, in connection with this law between the first and second readings, a roundtable or an extended debate on parent committees is being held again, the Committee on Tourism is not in the position of the Croatian Parliament. I think it's in the metrics, it's in the content. We're all natives here in this matter. There's no board that's not parent when it comes to this important matter. Therefore, we need to have a very serious, conscious discussion between the first and second readings so that neither of these three sides would make a complaint that is justified. We need to find the same criteria for everyone, but the criteria of justice and the criteria if someone's been taken away so they have to come back. Damn it, it's an old sentence. It's never good, it never ended well, and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't reconcile both businessmen and local self-government and a state that has to watch over each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50184	Thank you. I shall inform you that, in accordance with Article 207(2), the time for application has expired for 10 minutes. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall. The word has an esteemed representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50185	Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is indeed a very important law that is addressed to the procedure and when we see that it is actually 100 million squares of land over which so far no one has any concern, which actually do not have any ownership legal status that is used without any compensation. When we multiply it by some kind of market prices of such land, then we see actually what the value of the land is. And that is why, in any case, it is welcome that such a law is addressed in the procedure, because the law that is before us represents a decent basis on which solutions can be found to resolve this issue. Indeed, here we are, on the Committee on the Constitution today, finding that it would be good to discuss this package and this Law on Amendments to the Law on Property, but in any case, and for another reading, it is quite certain to organise it to be exactly that way, because these are two laws that are absolutely connected to each other, the Law on Property is a fundamental general law, and this is one lex specialis in relation to where many questions are touched. It is absolutely certain that this law has 28 articles or 30 articles, and I think that it needs to be completed, that some institutes in it really need to be precise, more precise, more transparent, and that it will then be good for adoption, and that it will then solve some of the problems that they certainly are. Already, Vice-President of the House of Col. Arlovic warned of certain and essential and formal and legislative problems that appear here, and I think it should be resolved anyway. When I looked at it, I would say from Article 32 of this law, where it is said that the Republic of Croatia has the right to purchase the land referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. I think that should be specified, whether it applies to private camps, when tomorrow the private who owns his camp wants to sell it, does that mean this, too, so that in any case these misunderstandings can't be. As regards Article 5, this definition of land in camps whose value is not fully assessed in social capital in the process of conversion, i.e. privatisation, is owned by the Republic of Croatia and this land is also to be described in detail, I think and I assume that this is mainly about that land which is still run in land books as social property with the right to use companies that have actually continued to use this in conversion. So that should be a little clearer in any case. Item 3 of the Land in Camps whose value is estimated in part in social capital in the conversion process, i.e. privatisation, is owned by a company in the estimated part and the Republic of Croatia in an unrated part. So we have a kind of co-ownership. If, on the basis of the conversion document, it is not possible to identify which land has been assessed, i.e. which is not estimated to be co-ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the company in co-ownerships of the relative value of the estimated and unassessed. It's going to be very hard to do the way it's written here. I think we should also specify the elements. The co-ownership community, Article 6 below, is broken down by paying the commercial company the market value of its co-ownership stake. A simple, clear provision, however, was regulated by some other law in the court procedure, so that it should also be fenced here and it should be specified that this does not apply here. Article 7, here we have the Institute that the company whose legal predecessor is in the process of conversion, i.e. privatisation into capital, is the estimated value of the buildings built on the land referred to in Article 5 is entitled to a concession. And I don't think that's controversial, I think it's okay. However, there is a paragraph 3 which states that the annual concession fee for concession referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined in a way that the total concession fee during which the concession is granted is reduced to the market value of the estimated facilities and divided by the number of years of the concession. I think that this should be where the compensation is determined, in any case, the question to me is whether or not it should be reduced. Because we also have to consider the fact that they used that land all this time years ago without paying anyone anything. The truth is, they built something on that land. Not something but they built the facilities but in any case, in determining that concession fee, it is necessary to take into account the fact that they are using this land, that they are not paying anyone anything, that they make a certain profit and a certain profit, and that they should actually question whether such a provision has room in this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I normally think that here we are, in fact, about the determination of ownership rights, all of which we have otherwise put into a unique solution which will determine concessions and concession fees and which will determine the right of ownership. I think it needs to be separated in two steps. The law should specify precisely that the state attorney's office, that units of local self-government, are to initiate procedures in which their right of ownership will be established on that land. It is only when we enter this right of ownership in land books that we can discuss this second step, the establishment of the right to concession, and I think it is a much cleaner situation than when we go at the same time and the solution to the concession and the decision on ownership that is entered in the land books. Because here, when we are self-determining the right of ownership, whether the Republic of Croatia, or local self-government, in this process will actually come to those interested in disputing it. So I don't think a concession and a right of ownership should be mixed with the same solution. This Regulation shall enter I think this really is the minister responsible for the affairs of the sea and tourism, and the regulation sets out the criteria for determining the time limit on which the concession is given. That's possible, it's possible and the minister, but given the weight and complexity of that institute, I think it would be more correct in the second reading to put it as government. It has absolutely a certain weight, has a certain debate in the government so that any debates are ruled out, if the minister is such or such, and too much authority is given to him. This Regulation shall enter I've said that before. It is for me to be separated, absolutely in charge of the Croatian State Attorney's Office, to assign units to local self-government, to initiate these procedures for enrolment of ownership rights. It's only when we have the right to property in place that we can talk about all this. And the concession and everything. This Regulation shall enter Concession is intolerable but makes property in bankruptcy proceedings. It's better to work it out. Let us not allow this concession, to be traded in bankruptcy proceedings under the rules of insolvency proceedings. Let's do that when it's in bankruptcy that certainly consent to the transfer of that concession is given to the minister. This Regulation shall enter It should also be specified how this estimated part is formed because that is all, all of it is generally unclear. One part was paid, and we don't know which one is now. So that's what you should see because when you form this new land particle who's going to do it, in which procedure and how. Article 23 states: "In the case of Article 19, the company has the right to concession on land for the regular use of buildings while they exist and have a catering purpose". I don't think we could go through the concession institute. I think it's actually a classic service right. When you own one facility under the general rules of the Property Act, I have the right to approach this property, use this other property so that you can actually exercise your ownership rights on that facility. That's why there can't be any talk in my mind about concessions, but only about ownership. Finally, as far as Article 28 is concerned, it says: "This Law does not affect the rights of former owners who exercise the right to compensation under the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule." The idea is good and the problem is detected anyway. But let's also make that clear, and in that story, let's say what happens now that property is changed, can property be returned to them or only compensation goes away. We need to be much clearer here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50186	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Walter Poropat. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50187	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me in a few sentences to address this proposal for a law on tourist land. If the estimates are correct that only in the camps have not been assessed and entered into the core capital of companies more than 22 million square metres of tourist land, and the square is greatly increased, taking into account that other than that land, there are also numerous other cases in which the tourist land is not assessed in the value of social capital in the process of conversion, i.e. privatisation. So the square is estimated to be almost 100 million square meters. Then we have to ask ourselves, what has been waiting so many years to pass a law that will reconcile the interests of companies directly using this land of units of local self-government on whose territory tourist land lies to the highest interests of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore welcome the fact that the tourist land has come to the agenda of this House and I believe that the Law on Tourist Land is very important, necessary and of course, most importantly, useful. Bringing forward, the current failure to solve the problem of tourist land has made it impossible for any improvement in the quality of the tourist product, which in the development sense represents an unsustainable situation, because that land was used by companies without a legal basis and in a legally unregulated way, which primarily causes legal uncertainty, but also that no permit could be issued on the intended land, and because of the inability to apply evidence of land ownership. I therefore welcome the initiative in the form of the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land in the first reading which we have advocated in the IDS for years and in our proposal for tourism land to belong to local and regional self-government in order to reinvest the funds collected from concessions and land rentals in the development of a tourist offer, i.e. to improve infrastructure and environmental protection. But if we look back at this bill, then we need to discuss and determine some of the parameters that are very important in these cases, which is among other things the distribution of concession fee and the compensation for the right to build, 50% in the Compensation Fund, and the other 50% in one third in the Republic of Croatia, the County and the local self-government unit on which the land is located. It is not disputed here that 50% is paid to the Fund for the Compensation of Assets, but that, after the payment of the disbursement fee, those 50% will be paid to local self-government units and, of course, that the funds would have to be returned to the infrastructure and protection of the environment of local and regional self-government units. That's what I'm saying for that reason because the Refund Fund is not going to last permanently and it's just a temporary institution and that's why I'm saying it. In tourist companies, questions of a type are asked openly if we estimate that the Republic of Croatia has 100 million square metres of tourist land and if it is found that the fee per square meter will be if we take an example of a kuna, it is estimated that 50 million kuna will be paid into the Trust for the property seized, but it is not mentioned whether the rest will be invested in the tourism infrastructure, which is very important. Secondly, if the value of the fee per metre per square metre is determined, will it change over the years or not? Itd. I don't want to pick it up. So, we can say that there are still a lot of questions that we need to make a final point and the best solution for all participants, but what we think in IDS is best and what we have been saying from the very beginning is that tourism land is not sold out, but that it is given in concession or long-term rental, which this proposal first reads and gives, and that after paying off the established value of the Trusted Property Fund, we are proposing the 50% concession fees and the construction right to be paid to local and regional self-government units to address the infrastructure problems and environmental problems on the ground where this is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50188	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, given the problem that all predecessors have already discussed, what happened to the land around the hotel, the camps and the camps, it is certain that we are then forced to adopt the Law on Tourist Land. However, I will immediately point out that it would not happen by chance to make this law a new nationalisation, to make a new injustice for those who did not even exercise their rights under the previous law. This is something I think is crucial, which this government has promised will never happen and which rightly warns in its individual debate of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, our colleague Bosnjakovic. There's only some indication about it that it's not going to happen, but it's still inaccurate and intransparent. Why are we actually passing the Tourist Land Act? If the existing laws were respected, that those who were not owners were punished, and who were not only used for many years illegally and unlawfully and free of charge to state or private land or the property of the unit of local self-government, and that we were simply powerless to do so, I would say to the dissuasive capital, we were simply all powerless and therefore, in this good and noble intensity, that we should not, in any way, do wrong, in particular, private owners, the owners of which, by virtue of the existing positive legislation, had not yet fulfilled their obligations, these proceedings, let us be realistic, ever since this Law was passed, the Law of Refunds have changed in the meantime and the Government, we were all failed to meet citizens, individuals returning property. On the other hand, we are somewhat more successful when institutions are established then the law is exercised with greater ease, and here we see we are before the conclusion of the contract, the first contract for the return of property to foreigners, as it allows the contract to be reached and on the basis of a provision, that is, the Constitutional Court's decision to declare the non-constitutional provisions of the present time, of course, that even the parties under equal conditions must be returned to the property. And that's why it seems to me again that it would not happen by chance again that this weak individual citizen who comes to the state, when something of her asks her to be powerless, and that others are very easy to establish their rights, and on the other hand, when that state looks at the individual, when she rightly asks for something towards him, then there is again very, very effective. The very way the law is in the process, i.e. the bill itself, as the proposal has already taken place, already points to serious duress and certain remarks. It's the owners of land that haven't exercised their right yet to own all the legal grounds, not only has it always been their land, their fathers, their great-grandfathers who were nationalized during socialism, where hotels, camps were built, but at least that's where these people worked. After privatisation, they were fired, but yet there was a law that wanted to correct the wrongs of the old and that the land that was not brought back was returned. You see, in this process of adopting the proposal, hotel owners participated, and none of these owners, private owners, whose property is still disabled, and they see this as a serious danger so that, according to the provisions of those which I am going to quote a little later, their right to return was condemned. It is immediately necessary to quote the provision of Article 28, which is also indicated by our colleague Bosnjakovic, who said that this law does not touch the rights of former owners who exercise the right to compensation under the property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. However, since he and his colleague are well aware of the case-law and how the courts are considering and functioning in this regard he also sees one insufficient and non-transparent provision and incorrect in view of the explicit provision of Article 22, which explicitly states that the remaining land in which the social enterprise had the right to use and which was not assessed in the value of social capital within the meaning of Articles 19 and 20, hence the former articles, that the ownership of the unit of local self-government in which that land is located or that it becomes a state property. So we have some norms that are in collegiate, above all, with ourselves and then if we look at this law as a whole, because it will certainly in its practice and in its application, or it will lead to a whole series of confusions and illogicalities. Well, it's not the first time that we have a simple, but it's become a habit that often in certain laws we solve one and the same problem and then there's a problem of applying practices not only of the administrative authorities but also of the judiciary which then shifts its ineffectiveness or inequity to the legislator, the legislator says that guilt on the administration is ineffective and judicial and so the ball is being transferred and the problems are piling up and not being solved. Therefore, it is necessary to be very, very careful when two legal acts are regulated by one and the same subject, the same substance. Now we have here in cohesion, the competition of two laws, the law that is so much, I have already quoted it, which has so many times changed the property fee law taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule, which said, "What has not entered the basic capital is coming back in nature to previous owners". In its previous provisions, this law says something different among those first provisions, that such land, that these properties become state property or property of a local self-government unit. And if there is a dispute before the court then they again apply the general maximum of the rights which says that "lex posterior derrogat lex priori" or that this later law will have stronger because these are the two laws of the same legal law and that this law will then be applied which was later passed because it regulated in a different way the law that said something different. If the promoter really has such intentions of good and they're actually on track as it is and promised not to defuse the right... The owner, then, may well have to go with a saying in Article 22, to point out more of this aspect because it has led to great anxiety from these people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can give it right and say, they're very upset. They wanted them in this snow, too, because most often and to the most extent, it concerns the owners who have land in the coast unlike those who are not so concerned on the continent. So, despite these times or troubles, they wanted to come, but unfortunately they see everything, so I would say some kind of conspiracy, conspiracy, issuing their promises by the authorities that this would still happen to them, and then they asked the Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that they could attend this session, and only because they didn't want to be in front of TV cameras, they saw a certain danger, and then they saw the danger because this initial board that they networked not only across Dalmatia but our entire coasts wanted to attend, so then the Parliament's Secretariat approved that they could only be present in the number of six people that were insufficient for them. So, to rule out all these fears of them and really, not to make one new injustice unless the real promoter thinks and turn this land into a touristic and take them away, and then give them a concession. Surely they are not the ones who will be able to compete, offer them a concession. Therefore, it should be pointed out in particular that in the proposal of the Law on Tourism Land that the tourist land is not regarded as a property where persons have exercised ownership rights on the basis of previous grounds, whether or not they have registered it or not because they could not, given the length of the proceedings, both the administrative and these judicial ones, but it is enough that they are also able to implement and have submitted all requests in accordance with the Law on Compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50190	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50191	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister! I'm kind of in a very good mood and I'm full of optimism after reading this law. It contains several discoveries that are very informative of our present and future. If this is not an exaggeration and it really is 100m square meters that is usurped by hotel tourist companies, then the minimum value of this land would be about 5 euros, at 50 euros would be 5 billion euros and latent if it were 500 euros, it would be 50 billion euros. This would practically be twice the total external debt and would be huge and financial and economic potential. The second reason for my joy is the discussions of colleagues Damir Cain and Walter Poropat. They are Istran and few people know that the Istrans are related to the element of the country and the terrible speech of Cain and the less passionately rational speaking of the Poirot speaks of this fascinating binding of Istria to the country. It is more surprising that no such legal proposal has appeared at the time of the coalition government. At that time, the resolution minister, Mr. Cacic, and especially astounding fellow Linic, should be the ones who should have made such a bill, adopted it and have solved these problems by now. In fact, a large part of the usurpation took place in Istria from just a few large tycoons who, though, paid big money to the state budget but could have been prevented in that usurpation of space. As for the concept itself and the name of the law, I am not quite sure that the best proposal is the name of the law on tourist land. In fact, it's not just about tourist land. A colleague Cain mentioned agricultural land, but it is also about all other land and areas that have not entered the valuation of the value of the underlying capital in privatisation processes and also about the non-tourism companies. So, companies in the area of agricultural production, trade, construction, banking, etc. As far as the country is concerned, there are other spaces. So there are streams, rivers, lakes, so a whole series of natural resources and in terms of the basic goals that they want to achieve with this law. I think that not only should the objectives of rational management and the protection of these natural resources be highlighted first but also the protection of landscapes, biological, biological and natural wealth, social justice. So that element is also highlighted in, for the basic purposes of this law. As far as this is concerned, these dichotomy hotel companies and camps are completely irrational because it is almost as castely defined as apriors, that ownership and management rights over all have central authority and has ownership rights in relation to the camps. I worked at a camp I was as a young boy car camp manager in Podgorica and 97% of the property of that carcamp were local people whose it was nationalized, confiscated, taken or taken away by some small, modest or no compensation. And in that sense, I think the name of the law should express its true meaning. What's that supposed to be called? Maybe the law on, I don't know, island, coastal land, usurped land and space. Anyway, think about it a little bit. As for some idealistic belief that the state could be a rational master or one that would prevent the sale I don't know who, probably thinking about strangers, teaches us a different history. Everything that was owned by the state was all sold out. The state thus sold out both banks and telecommunications and new privatisations were also indicated in next year's budgets. It is given to knowledge and potential customers that we will find ourselves in budget trouble so that they can buy it cheaper than they probably would have bought if we hadn't referred to it as a priority. And in that sense, I am on the trail of those thoughts which have been very much here that the primary purpose of it was, should be to find the original owners and not only in terms of compensation but also in terms of restitution if it is eligible for the condition that these, these spaces and land are not brought in by original purposes. Finally, when it comes to space protection, I will take this opportunity to say only a sentence in that sense. On several occasions, I think it should be stressed that the arrival of Kalmeta and Mrs. Marine Matulović-Dropulić has done a great service to the historical interests of the Croatian people. There is a great provision to protect space one kilometer from the coast, however, there is one built-in flaw of such protection. The facilities are protected. It's primarily thought of buildings, and not protected and, everyone, all traditional resources. So traditional roads, roads and other spaces. In this respect, the concept of protection should be expanded in future protection in this respect. All in all, I think that until the second reading, the legislator must do a precise calculation of which even meters of square, distribution along the coast, ownership opportunities and calculations of the value of this land and of the current and latent ones in order to correct these, these shortcomings of this Law, in that sense, to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50192	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50193	Mr. Vice President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here is a view of the preparation of this Law and the adoption of several thoughts that are partly related to it, in it, and, in part, to doubts which could possibly be regulated by this Law and the setting of these limits according to some other laws that regulate these same or similar rights in that area. I have a lot of experience in this area especially about the maritime belt, and it's tightly connected all the facilities are mostly tied to that area, along with this belt and this fact so far here for 13 years, 14 almost that so large was private, there was a social wealth outside of any control pointing to the seriousness of the problem. Also on the other hand, individuals have come easily, and most often counting that later in the coming phases and years, they will solve this rest of the land and thus actually achieve that rent position that God’s days are created by the sea and related to enormous prices at least for our unique land prices in those areas. And that is why both this Law and other laws must be very sensitive and make sure that this does not happen. This Law of course cannot regulate everything, all the ownership rights of all those categories that have been so far. And that and there, that doubt whether in this and I also place it absolutely still confirming as well as all colleagues almost that private property wherever it is possible should be returned to privates either directly or through other forms in which they will have control and control over that space. But it also raises certain doubts, even if this Law makes any provision related to it as a transitional provision, which is the question, and what are the technological elements? Who's the one who's going to define what technology is? Because the doubts that this law sets and it seems to me to me how many hotels or autocamps there are that many cases. Almost all that. Each case for itself is about the way or ownership in that space or use. Why? Many have large areas that can easily be technologically or are already some and others can technologically define that... part of either through components which may be in sports and any other content that is in the function of this tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And leaving an unsaid part of any part leaves great possibilities of interpretation in fact which is also easy to move those boundaries. What's a tech unit? What is the ownership of new owners now? What is the property of former owners who are subject to parole and who did not enter the substance of the estimated value can be questionable. That's why it's good if you don't do anything and that law prior to taking up property to work and define the status and rights of those people so that they can move on. This division of state, city, municipal and county in this section should be distinguished in a way, it seems to me at least that ownership should not but the right to manage should be brought down to a lower level of counties, cities and municipalities and so... they shall have the right to manage only for a certain period of time through concessions and other forms without being estranged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is not regulated by this Law, and what seems convenient to me is that maybe even here one chapter or part of it should be installed because I don't see when that other part will almost be installed. What about that land which is now state-owned, and in the meantime since the last law, or the first Law on Conversion and Privatisation, has been put into office again and again, a tourist function, and is not regulated. What about those who will be in future times as well and who will be the one under what law? It seems impossible to determine or edit in Croatia at this time except for every case for itself. So maybe this was a convenient opportunity for this very law to say and what about those new investments and projects for tourist purposes that are on the ground. There's property clean, either private or state. But the period, time and condition of how to put it into function for tourist purposes, and that is nowhere yet defined. So it seems to me that this law is potentially convenient to process that area and that it could then create assumptions that it solves the whole problem of land for tourist purposes. Not only this one that is not in the estimated value or in the estimated value. Perhaps, most of all, with this problem of regulation of rights in that area, I would say that the same question should be distinguished, regardless of whether state, county or city and municipal and private management should be extended once more, although other laws also define the differentiation of access and the availability of maritime goods. In fact, we have witnessed that also under the technology company, some hotel complexes or other facilities have finely fenced and usurped both maritime well-being and thus not available to all citizens, as it says in the Constitution. In Italy, it is explicitly prohibited. Well, it seems to me, regardless of what the law and the Constitution has regulated, that it would not be excessive here in one of the articles that regulates that technological unit to define that it cannot be alienated from the availability of maritime goods, that it is explicitly confirmed once again. And in the end, and it is, of course, related to this form of use, it makes it seem that it has a lot of property that, if it is not treated equally, the new owners through mortgages and other ways have become the property of banks. It may not be necessary to list them here, but in any case I am afraid of worse experiences, part of which so far, that such means of availability and ownership do not create new forms of availability in the meantime. Because it's very questionable whether someone in the meantime, without anyone knowing it, or even the state's attorney's office, has anyone been able to get into possession of all the other forms in the meantime. So it seems to me that, I'm not a lawyer, and here I really accept all the suggestions that colleagues make that situation of great wealth, national and other, would come through mortgages in a different way to someone's property, especially through banks. And those very elegant ones have taken care of it so far. Therefore, it seems to me that, if this law were prepared for praise, it would be commendable for going into it. He certainly can't regulate all the problems. And there's no need to regulate all cases too wide, all situations. But in order to get something extended, you might want to consider this possibility of being available. What I'm saying is, from the former, present, in substance, without substance and future tourism facilities and surfaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50194	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Indeed, this problem is very complicated, very demanding and cannot only be solved in a legal way. Let's take the turn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "This law regulates the Institute of Tourism Land and regulates property law relations on the land.". Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). "Tourist land is the land for which the documents...", listen to me, "...the spatial arrangement of a certain catering and tourist use." The spatial planning documents are urban plans and spatial plans, i.e. spatial and urban plans. This means by the GUP of a city or some municipality or some settlements, stamps are placed, regardless of whose land is owned. And it is determined that there will be a hotel or some tourist facility. This land under this law could be taken away in administrative proceedings, as the law stipulates that such land is being settled in administrative proceedings. All the other laws and constitutions say you can't do that. And that's what the Constitution says if it declares itself, therefore with a plan of urban interest and with a market fee. But this means that this law, let me, I really want to be well-intentioned, nationalizes the problem of tourist land and turns it into state property, it's just going to be a process without knowing what it's all about. Because we don't know what the spatial plans covered. Neither the city of Zagreb nor the Crikvenica, nor Opatija know anyone. Therefore, all problems, legal, economic and so forth, arise. Now, you have to admit that the problem is urgent. Why? Because many, many companies from tourism activities have already owned land for more than 10 years. And if we respect our legal order, some who use this land, and they have no dispute in use, will appeal to our law on the right to suffer. So, the benefits no one disputes him and will say I've acquired property by file. So, the problem is urgent, but since it starts with something being nationalized, and you don't know what's going to nationalize is causing all the other consequences. If we start with the Law of Property and other real rights and the Law of Construction we have a situation, I can now identify 3 situations, that someone in the conversion process has found that the building belongs to a certain land and has not carried out the process of parceling. So, he had a big particle, a big particle, and he didn't economically reduce that particle, let's be honest, he won't be able to say it, he won't be able to connect the land-marked body, so the land-gathering and the building to privatize the mill after we've privatized it, he only adds land under the foundation. Because economics is not sustainable, and construction is not sustainable either. Why? Because the owner of the building must have access to his building. He's got to have the least right path. But there's got to be something else, it's got to be possible and safe for building reasons, so it can set up a skeleton, so it can fix fences, windows, etc. That's what everybody knows who's doing the right thing. So, the problem is urgent, I repeat, it's good that he came here, but perhaps he can try to solve it by law, not as his colleague Peronja sees well, perhaps it's easier and fairer to resolve it by individual procedures. That would certainly be in accordance with the laws. All of this can be solved with valid regulations. It's just been a long, long, long time. So, I, my proposal is to establish some gauges, carry buildings and belonging land. Maybe it already exists in the Construction Act. It may already exist in the Construction Act to say that it is for the economic use of buildings or hotels or catering facilities etc. or the standard of someone, by the right to connect two land-book bodies, so the building and the land belongs to a plot such as that size, and then of course the geometry must come and determine that plot. Unfortunately, I'm not sure we'll be able to solve all these problems without major disputes. In other words, it may be very important now to lay down regulations that regardless of who uses the land, it is not possible to gain property on it by file. Not to be too complicated. Therefore, Article 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 does not apply to the provision of land-licensed land-licensed land-based property. And something else very important. If we respect the legal order, then the change in the land-book state cannot be based on the law but always on the procedure. In other words, when all this is done, the state, or the owner of the property, must demand that it be changed in the land-book for each real estate. Just one more note. Of course, the exemption from the procedure for the establishment of tourist land and the treatment of tourist land should, before that, be resolved the procedures which have been initiated in relation to the return of ownership from before or the Law on the return of property that has been seized during the period, etc. Communist rule. This simply raises the issue of legal certainty, but also the security of the implementation of this procedure on the identification of land which is touristic and which will be transferred to state property, i.e. to grant concessions. In this way, we will reduce disputes and quickly come to a solution, and if possible, and possibly for now, in agreement with the Ministry of Spatial Planning, you will get the building elements as soon as possible. I know when I was dealing with it, that there was anticipation of the surface, i.e. the building of the particle, the plots, depending on what the object, what the gauges are,... the surface, etc. the building particle is determined according to these elements. Of course, it was social property, so the building particle was often unnecessarily large because it was not paid for by land rent or taxes or so on, today it has no such need or purpose. The state is concerned about the rational use of space, which is why the ministry has and agrees on all spatial plans of local units from county to city and municipality. Thank you very much. I really meant to help, not... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50196	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, short. The intensity of the law is good, and as far as I can see, there is no one here who does not understand this good intention and who is not trying to help make it as good as possible. The question of usurper really needs to be resolved, and these are mostly hoteliers over these valuable land that are de facto not theirs. Now I'm asking myself one question, whether it may be possible to resolve it through existing regulations in principle or pay or return, decide what you're going to do, but in any case you can't continue to act as a usurper in that area or you really need to make a new regulation. Every time a regulation is passed that comes in a new way, an original way solves the issue of ownership, then it's very complicated, first because we have a great law on ownership and other real rights, excellent, perhaps the best law we have in the country at all, thoroughly prepared, milled, and then it always becomes a danger that some new regulation, ad hoc solution, when we want to solve the problem in good faith, we don't actually fall into the area of that law and we don't violate one legal certainty at all in the country. That's what I think we should be careful about. The second good intensities of this law are to protect this land. Protect him. So if we ignore what I said a little while ago, then maybe let's do a legally unregulated area if we can call that area legally unsettled, so if we don't stop at the point that we actually have enough regulations and that we just need to apply them or maybe a little bit adapt to this specific situation. Now something a little bit more concrete, but all in a few provisions. Yeah, more in principle. This certainly requires keeping what previous speakers warn about, keeping new nationalisations that are not even implicit here, it is almost explicit. Almost explicit. That's not good. That's not good. Nationalisation was not a particularly fair solution for those it hit, denationalisation tried to correct that injustice not always successfully, not always happy, but let's as a state we have decided on, and we need this path, on that path to continue and complete those processes of returning to the nationalised property and to come to some zero position from which it can then be further resolved, and not now to engage in unfinished proceedings because it can complicate the matter indefinitely. Now I say let's go, and yes, and it is worth keeping that private property protected as much as possible. Now, my colleague, Lecko, has already warned. This article 2 is unfortunate as it begins and defines a new category of land as Arlović says, we introduce a new legal category for land, tourist land and then define it as what the documents of spatial planning are defined as a catering tourist destination. Now let's imagine a situation. There's a man's land, some kind of private land. The local self-government, with the consent of your ministry, or I don't know which ministry, Minister Matulović-Dropulić, to re-use that land, makes that... photo, decides it would be good and it would be really good. And it would be really good. And now they declare it a tourist plot, and then this article 3rd and 3rd item comes, which says: The Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first. And now a man who had so far been calmly owned and owned his land and calculated that he could sell it somewhere at a market price. Now suddenly because local self-government declares it a tourist plot he is at a loss. He's at a loss. He must now offer it first to the country at which he appreciates it. They're not happy solutions. They're not happy solutions. People will complain to us, they'll start administrative disputes, we'll bury the courts, and there won't be any. There won't be any. Not to say it opens up the possibility of manipulating that area. By the head of local self-government and so on. I mean, there it is, we're entering a very, very slippery, wide and risky area that we don't know where it's going to take us. So I don't mean to vaccinate under the law. We all welcome that intensity, I think heads together, listen to these remarks, try hard to do another reading, try that special regulation to solve a big, really big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50198	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50199	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about the Proposal for this Law that should solve a lot of problems that are present on the ground. And here, we heard from the introduction as well as in the assessment of the bill's proposal that there are a lot of unsolved items, that certain hotel houses are not registered, that it was different in the privatisation whether something entered or did not enter the privatisation and conversion, and in all this is about tourist land. But as a forester in the profession, I have to wonder where the woods are. Are they entering this tourist land or not, or are we just talking about land? I would say the most important and valuable part of the tourist land is exactly the forests and forest land that remained preserved and as such because the foresters on the ground were making sure that they were such and that they were as valuable and quality as possible. And in that part, it's pretty vague in the bill's proposal, which will be because when it says in Article 2, right, that tourist land is the meaning of this Law, etc. That there are land on which the buildings of tourist-economic purposes were built. And I'd say it should be added here except for the one that's already an ex-lege of another legal status, which is the forest. Because the forest law was already passed before and now new a few days ago. And that's why the land couldn't go into conversion because it was forest land like that. And now I'm interested in the fact that we're in practice coming up with a situation that the hotel was built in the forest itself. Here you're saying it's going to expand some sort of, I'd say, business yard. So it's going to spread to the woods and he's going to be able to get that in a concession. According to our Forest Act, no concessions are mentioned as such. So I'm curious about how it's going to work out. I'd like to get a quality legal interpretation related to exactly the state's attorney's office that's running a lot of cases of abuse on the ground today. First of all, local communities, municipalities, cities that entered the tourist land and other forest land that were later declared building areas and were later sold at fairly cheap prices. And today it is worth a tremendous amount, and Croatia's entry into the European Union will be worth several times more. And in that part of it, I find it illogical that some kind of administrative procedure can give that property around the hotel to someone. Because I think if she couldn't get into conversion and privatisation then that now with some kind of administrative procedure, she could give some kind of institution, a hotel, or I don't know who. And in that part, especially when we're talking, say, about camps. And just in every camp, it was all a forest, and now it's turned into a camp. Here, I can cite a few examples where I know that the field has just come up, I would call it kidnapping by some local firm that has, in conjunction with local politics, taken that camp from the Croatian Forests. For example, Biograd and there are, I can count at least 10. And where we are, the rule of law doesn't work even though these cases are standing and running procedures haven't been brought to an end yet. Not to say... "Barbariga" and the rest where it's been going for a long time a whole series of procedures where we still don't see a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that this law will allow for a better solution, but in this part if it comes to taking from the forest complex then it won't be in a quality way with some kind of, I say, some kind of administrative procedure that I don't know some kind of local institution. Just because of local institutions, municipalities, cities, and a large number of forest surfaces, we have lost ourselves. When we add that we had a few years ago, we passed the Construction Act that he took so that there was no need to pay for the forest, for where roads and other infrastructure facilities are built. Now, if we take this, we come up with an absurdity to make our surface fall significantly. And also around the camps themselves, I'd say, if it was used illegally, we say, 10, 13, 15 years, and now we're going to legalize it in such a way that by some kind of administrative procedure we're going to take some sort of concession and compensation, I wonder who that fee belongs to. Whether only to be divided in the way that is said, half the Fund, half the state, county and city, and those who previously ruled nothing. I don't know if it's a fair divide and in such a way that we've done it justly. Also in Article 22, where it speaks of the remaining land on which the social enterprise had the right to use and is not assessed. The problem is, it wasn't evaluated. The assessment of his that was then at the moment of conversion was kind of petty, symbolic. And today this building land is worth a lot, especially the question of whether or not there was a building plot at the time. And today, with spatial plans, we acknowledge that we will accept every re-purpose. This means that we will then accept a significant increase in this value, which is now measured by hundreds of euros, and we have cases and various, and usurpations and everything else. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I'd be wondering what it is if it isn't. It's about transferring property from one subject to another. What is it, is that available? Well, I'm sure it is. I wouldn't say that it can't be considered at your disposal if you're transferring from state to county or city. It's a transfer of rights. And in that part, I'm not a lawyer, but here I think there's an illogicality in that article of the law. I understand that it is necessary to regulate the complete problem as quickly as possible. But it seems to me that until the second reading we have a lot of unresolved questions, and I would like all the subjects present to be called for the second reading. I know that the Croatian forests were not directly invited to the talks. I understand that this is done by the Ministry of Agriculture, but I would like such meetings to be called and lawyers who work as an property-legal service in that company who is quite present in solving property problems in the wider coastal area because simply without the consent of everyone there will be no real result, and what worries me most is that there will be a reduction in the surface of the forest, and that certainly does not need to be a tendency for our development and expansion of development. I say we are just calling for this law to promote a major development, especially those areas where it is. I agree, but then not on the stick of that judge that we have, which just makes it possible for us to boast that we have such developed tourism, that we have such a view of the coast, because when you come to the island of Pag where you have the stone and the same as when you come to Rab or someone else who is green Korčula or others. So, please, here's a proposal to include anyone who might be able to help solve this problem for another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50200	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are discussing the Law on Tourism Land today, but it is obvious that this Law should be in line with a number of other laws, and in particular with the Law on Property and other real rights, which is actually addressed to the Parliament, so that, until the second reading, it should be harmonised and, if possible, discussed in the second reading in accordance with that or together, if it was technically possible to do so, because it would then avoid many things of post-correction and consent that could arise if the problems we would not start here were so synchronised and harmonised as it is, because this Law opens up many other problems. If we want to protect tourist areas, tourism land should then be done with precise, legal formulations and real rights that arise from these provisions that are proposed. Namely, let's take an example. Is the marine good, maritime public good catastre arranged and defined? It happens that certain companies in the conversion and privatisation into the estimated capital have entered the facilities that were built on maritime goods and now the man who bought or the company that bought the property from the port administrations gets a concession to use his own property, and yet the problem is if he wants to modernise, edit, equip those facilities can't be credited because he doesn't have the right mortgage on those facilities. So it is obvious that the Maritime Code that regulates this issue in the area should also be harmonised. Another issue is the issue of nationalised land in the past that has not been brought to its sense of purpose, which is why it is nationalised. So the land is nationalized, for example, for the construction of the hotel, I don't know what the tourist facilities of this kind or that kind are, but it's not done. Now the question is, here we have one letter from Zadar, that part of the Puntamics, which is 400 thousand square meters, and actually a small portion of 40 thousand entered the core capital, or I don't know how many square meters. The question arises as to the possibility of returning the land to the owners or other variants with a fair fee. The question arises whether the legal basis for nationalisation is realised if nothing is done there? It should be resolved, resolved in such a way that the former owners are not discontinued. The land that is an integral part of the hotel and which the hotels use today is actually used by an inert without legal basis, and it is not necessary for the necessary functioning of a hotel. Here we predict that if an estimated and purchased facility is, then it belongs to the land on which the facility is located. We need to solve the issue of approaches, the question of passages, the question of buildings, these things. We don't have to underestimate it, it's very important that the hotels might work. So both the cadastrian and the land-book should be shown separately with certain precisely marked dimensions, and then the rights that arise from this for the functioning of the hotel and for the service of that land for specific purposes. Why the rest of the city and municipalities? Well, assuming it's, I think it's a good idea to work out how and in fact all of this determines the exact idea that, if it's around the hotel park, and it can't be owned by a hotel because it didn't enter the basic capital, then it's normal to expect that the city and the municipality are interested in keeping that park and edit it, that it's to say that it's not abandoned, that it's in the function of the city or the municipality, etc., but I think there's still a need to think about what powers the municipality would have, if it's limited by an urban and spatial plan for the purpose of that area. So the question arises, if it is a park then the restriction of the right of the municipality to sell it or something like that is fine because if it is sold it can be rescheduled for something else, and if not, it should be precisely in the act of surrender to indicate that it cannot be used for construction and the like, because according to the urban plan that is also changing depending on local interests, the local interests of individuals, that this land cannot be re-used for some third purposes and put into question at all a prior concerted urban plan of green areas and similar content in one municipality, the city. I think it is necessary and here I agree with my colleague Lek and Mato Arlovic in the second phase, so this time that is ahead of us before the adoption of the law, all interested and this is mentioned by Mr Ledinski that it is necessary that other professional persons whose interests are at stake, and especially lawyers and urbanists, as they will say about it all and others consult because this law has far-reaching consequences, he determines for a long period of time the fate of the land and in fact its main purpose is to keep the Republic of Croatia the owner of that land because it is to assume that the general interest in this way, assumes, is not certain, to be more protected although sometimes there are exceptions. So all aspects of this problem should be looked at in time, harmonised with all the laws, especially the laws on ownership and other real rights, the Law on Property and other real rights, and in this way actually reconciled, tried to reconcile all interests and all possibilities, not limiting the right of those who would invest in achieving their wishes and ambitions in the context of spatial urban planning and that Croatia would become the owner of these properties because it is assumed that we too would do something like the UK did. The building but the air is yours and the land is state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50202	Thank you. Replica's respected representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50203	So I want to refer to a respected colleague, Bebić, in the part where he spoke about nationalisation, where companies entered certain properties after that did not build objects that should have been built in relation to the nationalisation solution. Such cases are very much in central Dalmatia, however, experience tells us that, unfortunately, almost in most cases, there is no return to ownership nor on such parcels because courts very often state as a relevant reason that the small church that could buy 2 kilos of cabbage was paid, or that due to lack of plans, these projects could not be realised 30 years after the nationalized land was awarded. Therefore, as part of these packages, it should be very clearly defined that what has been nationalised and not built must be returned to previous owners. That's the point. If we don't set up a legal order, then we won't find order at any other level, because order simply won't be anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50204	Replica's reply, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50205	My personal opinion is that the former owners should not be punished for the second time. That means, if they're awake because they've been taken away from their land and they haven't been brought to the point by which logic, then someone has a better right than the one who got two, three dinars and formally lost his right under that law. He didn't lose him. He needs either a fair fee or in nature a return of land if he's not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50206	Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50207	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In principle, I didn't think at first that I was going to discuss this point today, but given that I am a member of the Committee on Tourism and Discussions, I am also encouraged to discuss this item of the agenda of this House, mainly because this bill presented to us by the Ministry and which came in the procedure and the Government of the Republic of Croatia thanks for what it is because it is a good bill and finally solves some of the dilemmas that have had very difficult consequences in the areas, meaning in Dalmatia, mainly in areas where there has been privatisation of tourist facilities, from hotels, camps and so on. In principle, I am very happy, I can personally say what the focus of this bill is on entering into the property of the Republic of Croatia and that this property of the Republic of Croatia cannot be sold but only through concession contracts to rent to all interested business entities who would like to do so. I am saying this in principle because in the Republic of Croatia we have a lot of our private owners who want to sell the land that I personally think may not have to sell, it would be better if we gave it to private employers or interested parties, and I am saying this in relation to outsiders who want to get to our beauty on the Croatian Adriatic and build on them and then for our future, we leave nothing for the future of the Republic of Croatia but leave to our generations the land we have sold to foreigners. I believe that this development through the meaning of giving in concession contracts is a solution that will really be good for the future of the Republic of Croatia and not only for the future in the next ten, twenty years but 50 and 100 years, and in accordance with the needs and arrangements of space in those areas. I also welcome the context of the law on spatial-planning documentation because more precisely detailed plans of regulating violence where it is agreed and where it is legally decided that detailed arrangements must be made for all, means units of local self-government where the needs in the space are accurately specified, where the way certain buildings in space will be built and where local self-government units mean through representative bodies their own decision and how a single unit of local self-government will develop in the future. Normally, through such laws, it is known whether it is necessary to create hotels, dorm rooms or hotels that will have quality facilities in the future to attract as many better customers as possible in the tourism sector, means that it has as high quality and better customers and guests on the Croatian Adriatic. I also believe that through this bill it is very well resolved and the relationship for all of these reasons so far, means that the hotel land and land that is next to the hotel complexes goes to the management of local self-government units while the camps where it is mostly very large are the areas of this land with a small area of construction that then through the country means both through the republic and through the republican bodies can affect such large complexes in which they will continue to develop. Perhaps it is a principled remark that my colleague Lovrin pointed out at the committee session itself, I did not notice whether the board president had read it, and this is an objection to Article 3 where the first paragraph is a little vaguely defined, so I hope that through reading, until the second reading, it will be corrected and that this will be determined and it will also be brought into line with the Law on Real Rights. And I would repeat at the very end of my debate. I would be most fortunate and it is as an appeal to all private owners of the land to go far and far in the future, far more on rent regardless of the legal obligation to go to concession contracts and not to sell our pearls on the Adriatic and thus preserve land for future generations of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50208	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jozo Topic. He's gone. He's losing his word. HDZ representative's club, five-minute debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50209	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, assistants, colleagues and colleagues of this proposal of the Law on Tourism Land is the real proposal when we really want to arrange the Institute of Tourism Land, of course we always say that something should have happened before. If it could have been, but this time we are given the opportunity to, in a very thorough and comprehensive debate and in a procedure, this is only the first reading, to arrange this really important Law on Tourist Land, which would be to the satisfaction not only of the owners of tourist companies or autocamps but also of all citizens, to the satisfaction of municipalities, cities, counties and Croatian Governments. It is very clear what is needed and what are the basic consequences that will be achieved by the adoption of this Law. A legally regulated way will be established and thus legal certainty regarding the use of tourist land which has not been arranged so far is the large part that has not entered the company's core capital used without compensation, I would say even in a wild way. Investment activity on tourist land will be provided, all in order to improve the quality of the tourist product. It is important to highlight the object that covers tourist land, it is noted that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its special protection. Of course, the Republic of Croatia has the right to buy first land but the question is whether or not we can get the strength to make the first purchase real. I also point out what we discussed on the committees, on the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Law and what should be done very carefully in the course of the procedure. This bill of law is very modern. He's short. There are 30 members. In a modern, standardised way, he edits certain provisions but when it comes to solving because he wants to regulate property-legal relations, then he should certainly look at what he says and how he regulates the Law on Ownership and Real Rights and in the first place and this time should be highlighted and repeat how much we care to protect and arrange private property regardless of what this and this tourist land is of special importance to the Republic of Croatia. Problems of possible resolution of ownership-legal status so-called. tourism land which did not enter into the estimated value of the core capital of companies in the tourism sector. The Committee on Tourism discussed this very thoroughly in June 2000, 2004 where it is reiterated and reiterated that open issues of property and legal status should be resolved in a way that respects constitutional principles of equality before the law, guarantees of ownership, as well as principles of fairness and honesty. Of course, national targets in the area of space protection are fully respected as the most valuable tourist resource, especially maritime goods, although of course tourism land also refers to all parts not only on the coast and on the islands. It is also useful to highlight the importance of spatial plans that must indeed be thoroughly pursued and that this be, that the spatial plan be one of the important promoters of economic development. Of course not, it is not enough in Article 28 to say that this Law does not affect the rights of former owners who exercise the right to compensation under the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule but should be repeated and pointed out: we want to protect private property. We want the owner to be the master from the beginning to the end, regardless of whether the property-legal status is resolved in a way of concessioning, selling or buying because once such right has been achieved, there will indeed be a way to a good and secure future in terms of legal certainty. I believe that this will be discussed very thoroughly in the next readings, and it is good and at the right time this bill came. That's what they confirm, and all of it. Speakers' applications so far. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50210	Honorable representative Ante Markov, club representative of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50211	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of this presentation, I would like to say on behalf of the HSS Club that for every commendation, it is the effort and courage of the minister to propose such a difficult legal matter regardless of the criticisms that went first and went in favour of the bill that I believe in the second reading will also be to the satisfaction of all those structures that I spoke of both the economy and the local self-government of the state but also of the former owners. I believe that all together we can make a good concept of the bill that should, of course, be in line with the accompanying laws that are under way or I will come as other laws that they rely on but also have to be taken into account because this problem needs to be fully solved by the problem that we are about, and more speakers have sexised, debated and pointed out, and this is that the process in both expropriation and nationalisation in courts is recording. That these things are not happening in that direction and in the way that we are trying to say it here unless we have bad experience and we do not want to bring them here to the Croatian Parliament. And, of course, experience is bad because a whole series of sub-sticks and blurs exist when you find yourself in a position to return exploited land or nationalized land, which is precisely not built because there is a whole series of obstructional, legal reasons and because of them there is a major stalemate in the case-law on the return of that land. Of course, there's no market damage either. Unfortunately, however, this proposal for a law on tourist land has been charged with a lot of burden on it, a lot of problems of legal profession, but also of life problems, and therefore I think it is a good suggestion that as many structures of experts of all kinds and orientations are involved between the first and second readings and with the assistance of the Committee of all interested bodies of the Croatian Parliament as possible, I think we can reach one, I would also say a fair and developmental but also social approach to which this Law can meet the most requested requirements that were heard during the debate on this Bill proposal, and I believe that if we so set up all together, we will be able to adopt a good bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50212	Thank you. The final review of Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50213	Thank you, Mr. President. I really want everyone who participated in the debate, and you will agree with me that all the discussions were highly professional and constructive and everyone here who discussed the goal of this question which is not simple which is complex, which is legal and political and urban and any kind of solution. And he's loaded with a whole series of traumas from the past. We will really carefully analyze every discussion, we will hold more consultations, we will include Croatian forests and all stakeholders. And we're really not going to rush, we're not going to do another reading just like that, but we're really going to try to reach one consensus, and first of all we're going to try to achieve something to make all the sides happy. Both former owners and cities and states and to protect Croatian national interests. In that sense, here, I will be free of both MPs and those who have discussed really include in a joint job to try to solve this problem which is. And now we can say that he doesn't exist and leave him to someone else, but the problem exists and the worst is when he doesn't solve himself. I really thank everyone for the debate, and we will try to make a proposal for a second reading together, and only when we see, I say, that everyone is satisfied then we will refer him to another reading and try to solve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50214	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on tourist land. First reading. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on tourist land is being adopted. Any comments, proposals, opinions will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 19 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50217	No, but since it's about... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50218	Please, the Deputy Prime Minister will be made clear on the proposal for these conclusions, given that the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Tourism Land has recently been reached. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50219	Mr. President, the government does not accept these conclusions. The law is in the first reading, right? Therefore, the government does not accept that I do not owe.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-24-0.u50220	Okay. Thank you very much. Please engage. I am voting on the proposals of these conclusions. We can vote. The result? The conclusions were not accepted. 24 for, 9 abstentions, 66 against. Let's do another dot tonight. This is - Report on the regulations given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The report was delivered by the government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives and War Veterans. Does the government want a representative? He doesn't want to explain, give an additional explanation. [[Intruder: No.]] The Committee's rapporteurs? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate.
