ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45320	- Proposal for a Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union The Proposer of the Resolution is the National Committee. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the Resolution. The representative of the Committee of the Presidents of the National Committee Mr Ivica Racan will provide an introductory explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45321	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Before you is the Proposal for a Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, which is subject to the obligation of the National Committee from the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 January 2005. In particular, I would like to point out that the National Committee's proposal for a resolution has been carefully discussed, arranged and adopted unanimously. This confirms parliamentary parties' intention to make every effort to promote a national consensus on strategic issues of accession to the European Union and to strengthen the negotiating positions and determine the necessary assumptions for the successful conduct of negotiations. This text can be seen as a logical, further step in the process of participation of the Croatian Parliament in the debate on all relevant issues of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. In January of this year, the Parliament adopted a Declaration on the fundamental principles of full membership negotiations, which basically speaks about the Croatian acceptance of European values and principles and the Parliament's firm intention to support and participate in the process of reforms which will accept these values, principles and rules and of course implement them in Croatia. This resolution goes one step further and its purpose is to set strategic general frameworks within which the negotiating team will move. It defines its position and points to what is important for defining the role and future place of Croatia in the European Union but in a way that will not limit the space for Croatian negotiators to act in a phase prior to the adoption of the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for individual negotiating chapters. Therefore, this Proposal for a Resolution corresponds in substance to what is currently to be defined at this moment by the Parliament as a broader strategic framework, mainly given the fact that the next phase is coming after this, in which the Parliament will also play a major role in determining Croatian negotiating positions with the Government and the negotiating team for each individual chapter. The colleagues and colleagues of the preamble part of the resolution as you could see confirms all those political principles in which the degree of general consent has already been reached in this House. It is reiterated that the strategic objective of the Republic of Croatia is full membership in the European Union, all values, objectives and principles on which the European Union rests are accepted. It calls for the previous documents adopted by the Parliament, recalls the decisions of the European Union relevant for the start of accession negotiations, as well as the relevant operational decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, stresses the importance of implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the importance of pre-accession assistance from the European Union. The preamble also highlights the political objective of preserving indivisibility, integrity and integrity of state territory as well as the protection of heritage of the culture of language and social values as the basics of national identity, and in particular points out the expectations of the Croatian public that membership in the European Union will contribute to improving economic and democratic relations in society and improving living standards. I'd like to make a special note in this particular place. And in this last piece of road in the European Union, when it comes to the speed of that road and the quality of that road, it is necessary to say that there are a lot of things that depend on ourselves. The rest of the trip will not be easy, but our journey to the European Union has not been as easy as it is known. We still have a lot to change in our lives. In the European Union, on the other hand, we do not have honey and milk and some golden streets waiting for us to work together in the European Union. But with our good work of joining the European Union, we are aware, we have a better chance of success, for a better life, and in particular it will be fully accomplished for the generation, for the young generation and generation of Croatian coming. What I would also like to point out is that the principles on which this Resolution insists would be achieved and implemented by the Parliament of this Resolution determines that Croatia's objective is to achieve full membership in the European Union, which will rest on the principles of equality, partnership and solidarity between Member States, with the preservation and promotion of national identity and diversity, and under the most favourable conditions and within the shortest possible timeframe, in favour of the principle of individual accession to the Union of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process. The parliament therefore calls on the government to make the negotiations good and effective with full protection of national interests and with the aim of trying to complete them by a time frame that would allow Croatian citizens to participate in the 2009 European Parliament elections. In line with the objective, the Assembly will strengthen co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to implement the legislative harmonisation process in quality and in accordance with the deadlines set. In accession negotiations, the Republic of Croatia must promote and preserve its special identity, including the acceptance of the Croatian language as the official and working language of the European Union of the institutions, and the intention to negotiate in a number of chapters is also supported in the Croatian language. In particular, the Parliament in Resolution stresses that the national objective of the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations is to achieve the best realistically possible transitional periods, if possible, exceptions to those parts of the acquis in which there is no or no sufficient level of readiness for our full harmonisation and implementation at the time of accession to the European Union. This would concern those areas of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia in which a prior effective preparation and adaptation of the Croatian economy for equal participation in a competition within the European Union is necessary. Such transitional periods should be based on real needs and their duration should depend on the analysis and assessment of the time needed to adapt the Croatian economy. Of course, this is exactly where the success of the negotiations will be very important. The need for appropriate transitional periods is mainly but not exclusively relevant to the chapters of agriculture and rural development and environmental protection, as well as the areas of real estate acquisition and state aid. The resolution highlights certain elements in which negotiations will particularly need to be taken into account. The Council in Resolution recalls that the final objective and intention of negotiations is to ensure a higher and better standard of living for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, in this respect, underlines the need for negotiations on accession to the European Union to be followed by continued internal reforms. Therefore, in the Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is encouraged to adopt as soon as possible appropriate national strategic documents and programmes - Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, further strengthening the institutional capacity of the state administration of the Republic of Croatia, continuing cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, effective and responsible use of pre-accession assistance, and participation in community programmes, further strengthening political dialogue with the European Union, and the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive communication strategy just like our Republic. In all of the above, the National Committee assesses that this Proposal for a resolution contains the basic general strategic provisions for negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, which was also the objective and intention of the Assembly at this initial stage of the negotiations, and therefore I call on you to support this Proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45322	Thank you very much to the president of the National Committee. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45323	Dear Mr Vice President, our esteemed Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Drobnjak, dear gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm really glad this point is on the agenda. First of all, so that Croatia's policy on the international plan could be defined in some way for at least two, three, four next year to know what our goals and what policy this country has to lead to outside. So much, clearly, I don't think this country should be running any sort of court policy. I don't know, like sending a plane to get Ren to watch the game here, but she's got to be her own. I, and that's what I'm going to say, hold the beginning of the negotiations between myself and the great success of Prime Minister Sanader. Clearly, I never abandon President Mesic, but this is in some way Mr. Sanader's success. And why is that? So because he had to break the dominant opinion within his party which has always been reserved to the European Union, to the Hague court and so on, even though relations in power sometimes pay off and bite the tongue because you can thus take care of thousands and thousands of members of your own party who are back in power. But let's let it go now. That start of negotiations in a way I will also say the satisfaction of the IDS policy because the IDS was in some way a reaction to the policy of exclusion in the early 1990s. That's the first thing I want to say. So encourage the government to continue pro-European policy because Croatia has no other options. Either there'll be capital in the country or our people will go after that capital where there is it. The fact is that opportunities in this country are also significantly different from the end to the end. For example, unemployment in Istria is 6.1%, and in one Slavonia over 30%. It is clear that today's issue is primarily the return of the refugee Serb population, further co-operation with The Hague, although it is important to note that soldiers are ready to be sacrificed, and politicians who are responsible for many of these wicked skills have been preserved. However, although there is no need for euphoria to begin negotiations because negotiations will not feed the hungry mouth at least not overnight, it is a sign that Croatia will be admitted into the European Union. So this is a sign that Croatia has left the political fate of the so-called The Western Balkans is certainly not a small matter because the decision to start negotiations is a "de facto" decision on Croatia's accession to the European Union, and the second question is whether it will happen in 4 or 5 years. Croatia should be clearly prepared for this in two, three years, and it will be if it attracts capital because it, so it has introduced capital into the European Union and one Czech Republic and Slovakia and Hungary and Poland. But what am I trying to say? All the countries that I've mentioned have arrived in some way, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived, they've arrived. And one of Slovakia and the Czech Republic and Hungary. The economics today are much more developed. By standard, today is also much more attractive. And that is the European Union. On the other hand, Croatia is simply not one Switzerland or Norway that can be outside the European Union. But also those countries, for example one Norway, pay about EUR 1 billion annually to the European Union to benefit from the common European market that we sometimes know with various affairs, with sugar and so on compromise. However, what I am personally holding, we have missed one important moment mentioned in this resolution and declaration. It's the return of nationalised assets. It seems that in the background of the start of negotiations with the European Union and how Croatia will conclude property-legal agreements on the return of the nationalised i.e. Confiscated assets after World War II. The first is Austria, so there is no surprise in their eager support for Croatia. The second one will be Italy. Unlike Italy, with which ex Yugoslavia compensated war damage with so-called. the well-deserved ex Yugoslavia, which Croatia is not obliged to compensate in any way to the former owners, with the Republic of Austria of such international contracts, so it is possible to expect more than, under quotes, thousands of damage claims as it has been made to the Danube Germans as we find out recently that 20 thousand properties of the total area of about 120 thousand hectares have been seized...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45324	My colleague, my colleague, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45325	I'm holding on, I'm sticking to the subject Because that's one huge problem that's about to arise. [[Aggression: I warn you to stick to the topic.]] And this shows gentlemen that Croatia is at the beginning of the transition and that exiting the Balkan pot is expensive among other salaries, and that maybe billions of euros will be paid through those return obligations. That's what you should say among other things. It is clear today, with this set of political issues, that a little later, the most important thing is how to reform, reform the economy of the Republic of Croatia, which is highly dependent on the budget. Everyone mentions in public shipbuilding. How do you get the company off the budget? How do you keep it and reduce these budget expenditures? Unfortunately, it is impossible to achieve this overnight in a country where for seven, eight years, it has been exclusively purchased to express social peace and perhaps capital has taken over our judiciary. Which is also evident from those two conditional convictions and two fines after the revision of conversion and privatisation. What's also important here to say in this resolution is this fate of real estate. We generally know what we don't want in that resolution. We don't always know what we want. But sometimes we also know how to throw dust in people's eyes. How much is it, speaking of these properties, that's certainly apostrophe as perhaps a special point in this resolution, so how much is the real estate sale in Istria? About 30,000 a year. Who's selling them? They're sold by citizens. Local self-government maybe 50, no more than a hundred. Who do people sell them to? They sell them to those who give more, but we're sometimes hypocritical to the end. For example, we sold the banks to foreigners, and now they clearly control hundreds of thousands of mortgages on our apartments. They own hundreds of factories, hundreds of hotels. So to them, a peasant can't sell, say, a thousand square meters to go to Magdalena to treat, I don't know, a heart. PIFs Wait a minute, gentlemen! [[The intruders don't understand.]] PIFs, the PIFs are also run by strangers. They're monsters with hundreds of companies in their portfolio. One "Liburni" would be sold to foreigners, I don't know if Count Eltz and a Croatian citizen, but a peasant in Ližnjana can't afford those 500 meters. We sold HT, we sold INA to foreigners, I don't know, we'll sell HEP, Croatia to insurance and so on and so on, and that clear policy will continue and in the future because it needs to be paid back to the pensioners. The budget needs to be filled with 4 to 5 billion kunas per year by clearly selling public property and not counting further, and today I read that perhaps "The Oilman" will go to the stock market which I believe will not happen. But regardless of all this, the start of the negotiations is certainly a great success of the country as a whole. It is clear that this should also be read as a message from the European Union to other countries in these Balkan areas, such as, I don't know, the introduction of Turkey should read the message of greats towards the Muslim world. However, whether the European Union will be ready for Croatia in 2009, 2010 is increasingly mentioned today in 2012. I think it is a key issue not to continue trading with Croatia, and also let us not crash this promising start because the country could indeed suffer as a whole. So, I sometimes criticize the European Union even though I sincerely hope for it. I don't know, sometimes I resent being indiscipline like the Jovic Hague case, but I also know we can't do it without it. There is much I do not agree with power, but I certainly support it around the European Union. So, let us also enable the entry of capital higher than the country as a whole, enable refugees to return above all clearly to Serbian nationality, let us try in some ways, although it is not Croatian guilt to reconcile relations with neighbours regarding Slovenia, I said there is no Croatia's fault. Let us be determined to clarify the opportunities for war crimes and the Croatian judiciary, liberalise these economic processes in the country and try to curb orthodox nationalism that fed divisions, hatred, or exclusion. One thing is certain, Croatia deserves the start of negotiations. Croatia certainly deserves a seat in the European Union. Croatia will be increasingly attractive year by year, not to be doubted, increasingly civilized, increasingly attractive country that will be difficult, but will change opportunities year by year and improve the standard for the better. It is as safe and necessary to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45326	Thank you. We're going to six correcting incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Cain said that most HDZ members are against European integration, which is not true, because in the 1990 HDZ Programme Declaration and its author, Dr. Franje Tudjman clearly and unequivocally states that HDZ for European integration and NATO accession is an alliance, and Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ in 2005, and has filled the Programme Declaration with satisfaction from all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45328	Second correction by the respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45329	Thank you very much. In his inspired speech,.../President: Inspired?/... he made several mistakes. I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation. Namely, he said that the countries that entered the European Union of Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, are far ahead of Croatia by all indicators. I don't know what kind of indicators my colleague Cain has. It can give such an assessment that certainly does not stand because, according to indicators both economic and social and infrastructure and even democratic, I do not believe those countries are ahead of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45330	Thank you. Dear Representative Maria Byte, third Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I do not wish to violate the consensus and unity of the parliamentary parties reached about the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, I do still have to correct Mr Cain's allegations that Dr. Ivo Sanader had to correct and sanction the euro skeptics in his own ranks. Individuals of the euro skeptics have in all parties, but Mr. Kajin does not know, Mr. Bekavac has already said, but I will repeat that in the 90th Year's Programme Declaration of the Croatian Democratic Community, in its eleventh row, it is said that Croatia in the community of European peoples is determined and seen with the creation of the Republic of Croatia so that it is a completely incorrect allegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45332	Thank you. And the fourth, honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45333	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations about Mr. Rehn's arrival at the football game. I think we should protect Mr. Reno's integrity. He did not come to the football game, but came here to talk to the Prime Minister, with the president of the state, with the parliamentary committees on the continuation of the negotiation process, and I believe that the spirit, or the whole discussion of Mr. Caine, indicates that he does not understand either the philosophy and the spirit of the European Union, nor the new position of the Republic of Croatia, so in fact he defines himself as a Balkan, himself as a Balkan politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45334	Honorable representative Ivan Jurkin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45335	Inaccurate quote, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Kai's incorrect is your assumption that we throw dust into people's eyes. When I listen to you and your presentation, I remember the famous Churchill sentence: "Nothing can cheer me up as if I were shot and missed!", and you fellow Caine keep shooting, you miss me, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45336	And the esteemed representative of the Mato Church, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45337	Here we are talking about the principles presented by Mr Racan as president of the National Committee on the basis of which Croatia will equally engage in negotiations as other countries did. But Mr. Cain says, I'm just taking the details, shipbuilding, but agriculture and others need to take them off the budget. Europe will do it. At the same time he says I'm reading this morning the Oil Man will go to the stock market which I hope he won't. Well, neither will Europe tomorrow nor when we can't take it out of the budget, nor will the Oilman tomorrow, and it should be on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45338	Thank you. Dear representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the HNS Club, PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45339	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. Chief Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. I was going to say that, but I didn't mean to start with that, but given the debate that preceded this on behalf of the HNS Club, I'm going to say that it's kind of worked out since the moment we found out that the negotiations started, it's been a public matter to warn that it's not time, there's no space, it shouldn't be euphoria about it. I agree that we should not fall into euphoria but I must say that I think we should rejoice and be satisfied about it. That's a good thing. That's a good thing for us. There were a lot of bad things, we were about a lot of things, and here in this House we were racing, arguing, arguing, about a lot of things we didn't get along, about a lot of things most of us thought we should be very worried about, and today he thinks we should be very worried, about a lot of things we were very critical about. But this is one thing, and it is the duty of the people who took over the task of at least leading this country to worry in some segments about when something is really good and something really good happens that it is also property, an integral part of all the citizens of this country. Therefore, the feeling that something is good and positive and that everyone can take part in it is also something that I think should be highlighted, underline, show and know about it and enjoy it together and, of course, enjoy the work that was coming to us and which, of course, is ahead of us, and therefore I think that my idea of the course of this resolution was that it would be more of an expression of people coming from both political projects and parties and individuals coming from very different definitions, worlds and attitudes that have been in one element or one important point of agreement, and that is that we are from the beginning of negotiations, and this resolution is an important rock that makes us go further, that we have made an important step on the path that some of us have been taking since 1990, and I have to say all our life. Therefore, this is a good time for Croatia, a good thing and what we should do from now on, part of it is what we should have done and should be doing whether we started or didn't start negotiations and what we should have done all this time, regardless of the start of negotiations, and these are reforms within the country. And what is good is that this resolution, in the opinion of the HNS Club, the PGS emphasizes exactly those reforms within the country that we need, which are our project, the Croatian project and in which the European Union has served only as, I would say some kind of reminders, some kind of pathway that all reforms, possibly and in order, take an example of some other country, in which order these reforms can be implemented, which are all the difficulties in implementing them. But these are not ideas or those are not the reforms that we are doing because of the European Union or in general regarding negotiations with the European Union. As far as HNS and PGS are concerned, these are the reforms we want and want for Croatia, regardless of the Union. On the other hand, of course in the area where we are, geographically, politically, historically, the European Union, the question of the European Union for Croatia is not generally asked whether or not, it is asked as a question of how best, so how to become the most efficient and smart member of the European Union and this task, this task is right now ahead of us as a Parliament and from that point of view, of course, we cannot view it as being responsible for the negotiations only directly on the negotiating team and the leader or as being directly only on the government. That responsibility is on us, too. It's our job, and that's why we demand that we participate. But of course, then we need to take responsibility from that point of view, and at this point the European Union is not for us the idea of new reforms, but for us it is just a guarantee that reforms, so we see them in the club, that the reforms we are carrying out in Croatia, which are in line with some European standards, are also going to cross European standards. As far as these European standards are concerned in Croatian ambitions should be minimal not only economically, but also in terms of the functioning of institutions, standards of civil and human rights, they should be what is absolutely guaranteed minimum. And as far as we're concerned, the ambition is to go beyond that in Croatia. So, in this respect, membership in the European Union, which is now being opened as real, not to say a certain possibility in some perspective, this membership is a long-term guarantee that these reforms will not be able to be stopped, either interrupted, or revised by elections and different governments coming to Croatia in the future to power both in our time and after our time. Because it then becomes a long-term institutional, even from the point of view of political culture a long-term context and a framework within which Croatia operates. And finally, the third moment that opens here with the beginning of these negotiations and with our future within the European Union is the observation of Croatia and the need to change, I would say only understanding, the way we see ourselves, in which we now become an active participant, not only in the approximation of the European Union, but in the perspective of what the European Union will be in the future. With the entry of 8 transition countries, 10 all together, but 8 transitions a little less than a year and a half ago, the European Union certainly has a new dimension and in the future, the fact that these countries entered the Union will affect the Union's profiling. And our ambition should be that together with all the member states, we contribute to our own entry and participate in the profiling of how the Union will develop in the future, which will be, to be there, to be an active factor and perhaps to contribute to something, which, in my opinion, transition countries may bear in themselves more than the old members of the European Union, which is the awareness that this kind of peaceful, cooperative Europe that solves misunderstandings and conflicts with agreements, which defines the firm institutions of higher and higher ossion individuals, that such Europe is the only option because we who come from transition countries are even more aware of what is an alternative. If there is no such arrangement of Europe, what is another possibility, and what does this other possibility look like in different forms of stricter or lighter dictatorships? From that point of view, the transition country may be priced and observed by the European Union project with more enthusiasm than the old members or with the kind of enthusiasm from which the old members might have seen it in the '50s, '60s. and somewhat in the '70s. For years and from that point of view, of course, the transition countries have, and so does Croatia, as their element on this road and contribute and profile new leaders, European leaders and profiling the European Union in the future, and that is not, in my opinion, too ambitious, our responsibility and our full place. This resolution, of course, is only the first step. The opinion of the HNS Club, the PGS, is that the Parliament must continue to participate very actively in this process, because the Assembly is the space where the citizens of this country are directly represented and this is the most direct way in which they can participate in this decision. The parliament is also the most representative for the structure of Croatian society and the adoption of some standards in the Assembly is much easier to accept these standards in the common Croatian society. Of course, as is known, there will be many difficulties in the negotiation process, there will be a variety of both content and technical considerations. There's a fact that out of those 35 chapters that we're negotiating that de facto everybody closes down like that when the total negotiations are over. So, every chapter we finish negotiating, we end up only transparently, and we end up all together when we're done together. However, it is then part of the technical work in which they participate in different forms from our negotiating team to the Croatian Assembly of different Croatian institutions in different ways and then the National Committee, which is likely to have in the future, I would say more controversial and difficult problems than this Resolution. Controversy and harder, but less principled, less general. And what I think is important, so in a way that we need to feel good about ourselves as we are in Parliament's assembly that has succeeded after many years of effort, which has managed to achieve enough consensus, enough mutual agreement on the fact that Croatia has a European profile with it, that Croatia has a European perspective in its future and that Croatia is able to realise European standards in its institutions and its functioning. If we had achieved a consensus on this, and if we had managed to agree, I would have said in a relatively short time as far as the National Committee is concerned, on the content of this Resolution which even in my opinion is going to go a long way in detail, citing even segments of negotiations that will be particularly difficult, i.e. which will be particularly controversial as you have seen by mentioning that protection of the environment, real estate, agriculture, so I would say some very good things about which the consensus was also achieved. Finally, regardless of all the difficulties, the statistical fact is that countries that entered full European Union membership less than and a half a year ago have a higher growth rate than they had before and a higher growth rate than Croatia otherwise, I would like to remind my colleague Markov, therefore a higher growth rate than they had before they entered the European Union, a higher per capital of national income than they had before they entered the European Union. So economic indicators that show an increase in living standards. But what is also important for us here, it is not only an improvement in the economic situation and economic indicators which, from the examples we see from neighbouring countries and from the countries of our region, shows that it is important, but it is also important to achieve standards of functioning of institutions, standards of protection of civil and human rights that recognise the inalienable dignity of individuals and guarantee this inalienable dignity of individuals on the long term in this country. For us, looking at it historically may be the most important thing in the long term, and this first step is certainly encouraging in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45340	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45341	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the incorrect alleged vice president of this House, which is obviously the result of Mr. Cain's previous presentation, which I did not expect from her. In fact, she said, some said it shouldn't fall into euphoria. Well, that's what the president of the state said first. The president of the state said first that it should not fall into euphoria and let's not use the term "some" for the president of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45342	It's a comment again, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. So you correct your opinion and attitude. Some have said, so the vice president says "some have said," some have said it. ... Well, he said, but that's not a correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45343	The Honorable Vice-President of the House said that countries that entered the European Union on a net basis had a higher growth rate, economic growth compared to the year they did not enter, but by replicating me, in the sense that they have a higher growth rate than Croatia. I suppose the distinguished representative didn't think that Croatia should wait to join the European Union to raise the rate of economic growth. We can do it without the European Union. I think she said it herself at the beginning of her presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45344	Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45345	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Negotiator, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is a project that will have a crucial impact on the future development of the country and the life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Aware of the importance of this process and the fundamental provisions on which negotiations on the accession of the European Union should be conducted, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club supports the proposal of the National Committee on the adoption of a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. At the same time, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives' Club voices hope that during the debate in the Croatian Parliament this topic will be confirmed and that a document will be adopted that will best determine the basic guidelines, but also support Croatian negotiators in the process of negotiations. Membership in the European Union is one of the fundamental priorities of both the internal and foreign policies of the Republic of Croatia on which there is continuity in Croatian politics and the agreement of all relevant political forces. A resolution of the Croatian Parliament on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in 2002, a joint statement by all parliamentary parties on the start of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in December 2004 as well as a Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and a declaration by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of Croatia on joint action in the process of membership negotiations in the European Union, demonstrates that all parliamentary parties on full membership in the European Union have been agreed in the highest representative body of citizens. The Croatian Democratic Community Club hopes that by adopting a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, this agreement will once again be confirmed and further strengthened, on the topic important for the future of the whole country, all its citizens and future generations. The start of negotiations on full membership in the European Union is of historical importance for our country. It completes the project of creation and democratic construction of the Croatian state, and should also congratulate Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's government, past coalition government and all other former Croatian governments as well as all those who have allowed the creation of the Croatian state and its victory in the Homeland War. The start of negotiations also means entering a new period of relations with the European Union that the Republic of Croatia is entering as a stable democracy, a country with a strengthened rule of law, social tolerance, a country that respects human and minority rights, with a functioning market economy. Thus, as a country that has emerged from the transition period of its creation in the period of values on which the European Union is also resting. The proposal for a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union is a well-balanced text that takes account of the most important provisions that Croatian negotiators must observe during the negotiation process. First of all, the Resolution brings one more confirmation that full membership in the European Union is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and the objective of accession negotiations. It reaffirms the intention of the Republic of Croatia to reach a level of readiness for full membership by 2008 to allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to participate in the 2009 European Parliament elections. I would like to stress here that given the current level of readiness of the Republic of Croatia, it is possible to achieve this. But in doing so, the basic leaders of the negotiations must be that negotiations are conducted as high as possible, in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, and that membership is achieved under the most favourable conditions. Which means that Croatia must ultimately be best prepared for its entry into the European Union. When we talk about political preparation and political goals, the Republic of Croatia must maintain its fundamental constitutional values during the negotiations. Indivisibility, integrity and integrity of territories, continuity and protection of tradition, culture, language and social values as the basic foundation of their national identity. Croatia wants to contribute to strengthening and enriching the common European values and social and cultural processes. And I particularly stress that negotiations are not only a unilateral process in which we accept European standards and withdraw financial resources, but it also means giving or providing our own values and understanding of the problems and interests of other countries and the common community of the Member States of the European Union. The political goal is to ensure that Croatia is as good as possible as possible as possible during the negotiations process. That is, that its political, economic and financial position corresponds to its proportional strength compared to other Member States. This position will be particularly important when Croatia, as an equal member of the European Union, participates in joint decision-making and will decide on its own fate for the first time within the world's strongest integration. The political and economic objective of the negotiation process must take into account the national interests of the state in sensitive areas and branches of the economy. In doing so, the Croatian negotiating team must ensure the most favourable exceptions and transitional periods for certain areas of vital interest where there is insufficient level of readiness for full coordination and implementation with the acquis of the European Union. We particularly highlight the areas of agriculture and rural development, environmental protection, real estate and state support. I believe that these two goals and political and economic can be achieved in a good way. The government of the Republic of Croatia, with the consultation and consent of all political forces, has appointed a negotiating team composed of the most qualified, experienced and most professional people. Such a team, acting in accordance with the principles set out in the Croatian Parliament in the Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, as well as in accordance with the guidelines we are discussing today, will certainly act in accordance with Croatian national interests and achieve the best possible results. I remind you that these results must ultimately be accepted by Croatian citizens in a referendum. That membership negotiations in the European Union are a demanding process also speaks of the fact that the Republic of Croatia will hold negotiations not only with one party but with 25 or 27 Member States in which each Member State will certainly seek to defend and protect its interest. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia must prepare as best as possible for this kind of conversation. The political consensus we have reached on the issue of membership in the European Union must be constantly strengthened. This strengthening of the consensus also implies trust in the ability of Croatian negotiators. I therefore call on all colleagues here to support the Croatian negotiating team in their responsible and demanding task. I'd like to point out another fact. The motion for a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union clearly sets out guidelines that Croatian negotiators must adhere to during the negotiation process. The text of the resolution should not be extended because enlargement would also mean reducing the room for maneuvers to our negotiators and making their work more difficult. In addition, experience suggests that none of the new Member States has made their negotiating positions loudly, publicly and in detail. In doing so, nothing wants to be hidden from the citizens but some discretion protects Croatian views and positions and exactly the opposite, it is in the interest of Croatian citizens. In addition, the Croatian Parliament has the task of monitoring and overseeing the conduct of the negotiation process, and of including in the debate on all relevant issues arising from the negotiations specifically through the National Committee. The National Committee, as a special working body and forum, will discuss in detail the negotiating positions on certain negotiating chapters in a transparent dialogue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Negotiations on membership in the European Union are a major challenge that requires the mobilisation of all available potentials, not only among decision-makers and within the State Administration but also requires the mobilisation of the entire professional public and the entire Croatian society. With the political agreement on this issue that we have already reached and which we must further strengthen during the negotiation process, the successful achievement of the common strategic objective can only be achieved with the support of all segments of Croatian society and citizens. In order to achieve that membership in the European Union is a universally accepted national goal and we MPs have special responsibilities. There are topics and projects, and membership in the European Union is exactly where we should rise above our, sometimes narrow, day-to-day political thinking and interest. In this way we will give support to Croatian negotiators, but we will also send a positive message to Croatian citizens. Show them your seriousness and responsibility, and show European public and European negotiators preparedness for a consistent fight for national and state interests and the better status of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45346	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45347	So a colleague said the government has proposed a negotiating team that is made up of the most capable, best-quality and most beautiful people. I wish I did, but we don't know anything about it. It is necessary to wait to see if this quote is quite accurate or if it is possibly premature.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45348	HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45349	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. He would really agree with anyone who said it wasn't a time of euphoria, but that a certain amount of satisfaction certainly exists. And it is clear that the HSP Club will also join the general atmosphere of the need to reach agreement on the objective of these negotiations. On the one hand, the objective set out in point 1 of this resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. So let me, despite the fact that, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Racan has almost listed all the points of this resolution, that I am still quoting this 1st point, simply for the sake of the public. "The aim of the Republic of Croatia in its accession negotiations with the European Union is to achieve full membership in the European Union, which will rest on the principles of equality, partnership and solidarity between Member States, with the preservation and promotion of national identity and diversity." I really think that there is a consensus in Croatia on achieving this objective in the negotiations. However, allow me a few words about whether these negotiations do not respond to Croatia becoming a member of the European Union or not becoming a member of the European Union. These are open negotiations, not on our membership, but on the conditions under which Croatia will become a member of the European Union, if we achieve this proclaimed goal from the resolution. If, therefore, we are talking about the conditions and the resolution which should give strategic provisions to negotiators to meet these conditions, then it should first and foremost be mentioned that we as a country are not starting from zero, or from zero point of this negotiations, but that we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, which has largely already set certain conditions and which has already set out the starting points of our negotiating team's accession to the European Union several years ago. We can't get that out of our minds. Furthermore, the resolution sets out another objective, I do not know if it is wise for the Resolution to declare two objectives, but in point 3 of point 3 "to continue to make a special effort to ensure that all political, economic, legal and institutional criteria for membership in the European Union are met and that the Republic of Croatia reaches a full level of readiness to join the European Union. In accordance with that objective, etc.". So we have another goal, and this is until 2008 according to this Resolution to meet all that to become in line with both legislation and economic and on political and institutional criteria. In fact, the question arises whether, in a certain way, by setting itself up in the Strategy Resolution, one such goal is to make it all fulfilled by 2008, we in a certain way condition something for our own negotiators. Naima, if we achieve a full legislative agreement both institutionally and politically and economically, we meet all the criteria, in other words translated from Croatian to Croatian, we actually have fully consistent and political and economical and all other solutions as countries of the European Union, then we have actually lost the advantage, for example, that Switzerland or Norway has not fully brought into line with this legislation and its criteria just by protecting some of our national interests that we have declared first. In fact, what if we align practically everything with the European Union by 2008 and then actually in 2009 we do not become a full member but extends to a few more years, is it possible in this way that we have reduced our advantages for foreign investment in Croatia, because the question is why would someone from the European Union or from the world invest something in Croatia if they have the same conditions as in their country? However, this is a question that may need to be considered whether to limit our negotiators with one of these deadlines in such a resolution. The question, which it says in point 3 in order to ensure that this legislative harmonisation process is implemented in quality and in accordance with the deadlines set. The question in itself is who set those deadlines, whether these deadlines are set by the Parliament itself, whether those deadlines are set by negotiators, whether those deadlines are negotiated or whether the deadlines may be set by the opposite parties in the negotiations. There are a few more things I would like to particularly apostrophe, according to the 7th point of Resolution, the national goal of the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations is to achieve the best realistically possible transitional periods. In itself, the syntagma that I have to admit to me is completely unclear, which means the best realistically possible or realistically possible, or the abols, the best realistically possible thing is something that's actually round and on the corner. In point 8. accession shall be subject to the provision of appropriate transitional periods, if possible, of exceptions. I particularly refer to this term of exemption, why, because exceptions are something that the state in the negotiations can only ask for if its legislation has resolved something that it does not want to deviate from and that this is not in line with the criteria or legislation of the European Union, if this is not settled by domestic law, exceptions cannot be sought. I will set an example that may hurt all of us most, which is an example of the acquisition of the ownership of foreigners over real estate in the Member States of the European Union. As Belgium had in its legislation made it very clear that acquiring ownership of property to foreigners was not possible if these foreigners do not have a place of residence in Belgium, it sought an example of the exemption for this criterion of acquiring ownership in the negotiations. So, not a transitional period, but an exception. Why? Because she had it so settled in her legislation. We here from this pay phone and in this House have developed political options very often talked about the problem of acquiring ownership of foreigners in Croatia, and we have done nothing, and unfortunately I am afraid we have missed the decisive opportunity to adopt in the Croatian Assembly a law on the acquisition of the ownership of foreigners that would allow our negotiators to seek an exemption like Belgium and some other European Union countries where the acquisition of property would not allow citizens of members of the European Union who do not have a place of residence in Croatia. I don't think we should particularly point out, explicate, indicate why it would be very important and why we can't ask for such an exemption now because we haven't passed such a law. What remains of us is the acquisition of the property of foreigners over real estate in Croatia, unfortunately only the instrument of determining the transitional periods or the delay or delay of such an instrument that is in the European Union. We have had the opportunity to ask for this exception and this would be of great importance to Croatia's national interests in every almost point of this Resolution we mention Croatian national interests but when we should have protected them then we did not do so. Thus, in that 8th point, unfortunately, it states that there is a need for transitional periods with regard to the acquisition of real estate resulting from the fact that at the moment there is a significant difference in purchasing power between Croatian citizens and citizens of individual Member States of the European Union, so we left only our negotiators with the possibility of identifying transitional periods. Furthermore, point 9 on the strategies to be adapted in the negotiations of the European Union is cited in this context by the Croatian Parliament as encouraging the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the necessary strategic documents and programmes as soon as possible, with the "National Development Plan", "National Strategy for Equal Regional Development", "The Strategy for Rural Development", the Industry Development Strategy", and then writes "The Strategy for Harmonisation of Law in the field of Environmental Protection". I do not know why, especially when it comes to environmental protection, only the Strategy for harmonisation of legislation is listed, and is not listed as for all other strategies, therefore, for environmental protection. It is necessary to bring our environmental protection strategy into line with that of the European Union and not only the harmonisation of legislation in the field of environmental protection, because it means, in a certain way, that we also mention in the strategy itself that we may not be able to bring our environmental protection strategy into line, but we are able to do so only on paper. to bring legislation into line. So in point 10, we're talking about exactly what I already said on behalf of the club, that we're starting from a certain point, not a zero point. Therefore, the full implementation of the Stabilisation Agreement is mentioned through which many already have been resolved and many conditions already defined. And let me just look back on the very text of the declaration, on two things, on two examples that I hold that it's not good to stand in these resolutions no matter how declarative they are, and that's a certain phraseology at the level of emptyness. So I'm gonna mention this. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to say, among other things in paragraph 3 of point 10, "maintenance and further strengthening the achieved level of full implementation of the Copenhagen political criteria." I'm asking the question right here because of the phraseology. How can you further strengthen full implementation? If there's something full implementation she's a full implementation, it's impossible to further strengthen her. Or it is unnecessary to say that we need to strengthen full implementation, so let's throw out the word "full", so that it remains "maintaining and further strengthening the implementation of Copenhagen's political criteria". Finally, the paragraph behind reads: "Effective and responsible use of pre-accession assistance and participation in community programmes that should be used maximum to implement internal reforms.". I don't quite understand which community that applies to. So, participation in community programs. What's that? Croatian communities, international communities or some other community because it writes with a big "z". Finally, there is another phrase that sounds so phraseologically complete, which is "to further strengthen political dialogue with the European Union which will contribute to a better mutual understanding of the further approximation of the position of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia and to the general promotion of the interest of the Republic of Croatia." And I don't know whether it was meant to be said to promote the general interests of the Republic of Croatia or to promote these interests in general. However, in any case, the HSP Club will, of course, support this resolution on the strategic provisions because we agree on the objective and the goal is, I repeat, that the Republic of Croatia in its accession negotiations with the European Union achieves full membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45350	Thank you very much. I am reporting that it is time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45351	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mr. Chief Negotiator, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This resolution, which is before us, is a logical follow-up to the resolution on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which we adopted in this House on 18 December 2002 as well as the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of Negotiations for Full Membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, which this House adopted on 19 January 2005. And today, when the negotiations started on 3 October this year, I believe that we politicians in this House and in general politicians in Croatia will show again a high degree of agreement on the overall policy towards the European Union and the need at the end of the adoption and of this resolution. But I repeat my old thesis. We must in no case forget that, with our consent, there are also certain public doubts and certain public fears, which means Croatia's entry into the European Union. I remind the public about the European Union is very oscillating. It was somewhere at 82% a year and a half ago, about two months ago it went down to about 37%. These days after the start of the negotiations, it is again climbing to a level above 60%. And in fact, that intensely oscillating the mood of the public speaks enough about these doubts to the public. Given that we refer this resolution primarily to the Croatian public, but we also refer it to the public of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union, it may actually be good to see this resolution as a kind of start of fighting for the acceptance of the Croatian public as much as possible of the overall policy around the European Union. That is why I will speak practically because I think that with the declarations, resolutions and general views around the European Union, we have ended up actually knowing our views and, of course, speaking in a certain hypothetical way. We refer it to the Croatian public first and foremost with the aim of clearly demonstrating our willingness at the beginning of the negotiations both the Government and the Parliament, which were implemented in the course of the negotiations, that in fact every detail of the negotiations, every controversial matter of the negotiations must actually be clearly presented to the public. It has to be today, it has to be in the future. Because if that is not the case, if the public is not well aware of everything we do about joining the European Union, we will have an absurd situation that politicians will agree, that they will be Europhiles, that they will believe in the European Union and that the public will be Eurosceptic or that they will not believe. That's why this attitude towards the public, that interpretation of the public in an open and clear way without any hiding is a very important thing. We also refer this resolution to the public of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union in a way that is designed to see our determination, our responsibility that both the representatives and the Croatian Government will have in defence of national interests, representing national interests and ultimately the identity of this country after entering the European Union. I've already said I speak in a certain way and hypothetically. I am hypothetically speaking because the whole negotiation process is run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is the one who, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, has direct communication, which decides, etc. It is good that by the decision of this Parliament we have formed a National Committee, it is good to bring this Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. In this way, the Croatian Parliament remains in play and the Croatian Parliament can have an impact, ultimately, on the very course of negotiations. But we need to know clearly that the government will have the greatest responsibility because in fact its decisions, which will be made in the course of each chapter, will also depend on the implementation of this Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. I'm afraid we're all arguing too theoretically and too declaratively together, and that we should just for the sake of the public, say some things quite clearly. Finally, and demystify what these negotiations are with the European Union. Negotiations with the European Union are only the acceptance of European acquis and nothing more in the final. Therefore, the acceptance of European acquis. No one should worry about that because we ended up defining ourselves. Of course, there are no classical negotiations, there are no classic guesses, but there are certain issues in which we have the right to seek special treatment in the adoption of the European Union's legal gains for application in the Republic of Croatia. These are those issues and we will believe them to define for which, at this moment, the Republic of Croatia is neither legislatively nor practically nor economically nor socially willing to accept the full acquis of the European Union or those areas where there are certain specificities in which we want to maintain permanently. Of course, it's about temporary exceptions or permanent exceptions. Temporary exceptions the country negotiator may receive a certain number of years, permanent exceptions forever. In this Declaration, we have not listed permanent exceptions, which does not necessarily mean that they will not be in the process of negotiations, and that our negotiating team will eventually not identify them for one day, or possibly a national committee. Therefore, there is no need to mestify what the negotiations are, they are accepting the legal gain of the European Union in which the country that is negotiating in this case Croatia has the right to seek for those areas for which it is not prepared, so-called temporary exceptions to a certain number of years. No news of that, that's what the countries that came in a year and a half ago were getting, 10 new countries. This right is consumed even by some of the rights on permanent exceptions and by some of the old members of the European Union. There are examples like this, and I don't see why we shouldn't be dealing with questions at that level. Why are these exceptions no matter what character they are important to? So precisely because it is constantly stressed that we are able to apply the acquis of the European Union and to train ourselves to retain the identity we have been building for centuries. It would be dangerous for national interests to be the failure of negotiators to seek exceptions or to be bad analysts in identifying these exceptions. Therefore, negotiations as they are must also be public work, no matter how much it cannot be fully public because it is not practical to conduct negotiations with the European Union in public. Negotiations cannot be conducted by the Croatian public, negotiations are conducted by the Government with the support of the National Committee and this House, but all controversial issues by negotiators and the Government must know in an adequate way how to present them to the Croatian public and in an adequate way ask the Croatian public for suggestions on how to resolve them. Suggestions for a very simple reason to avoid the worst possible scenario that the public does not understand us and that at a crucial moment when there is a referendum on entering the European Union, the public eventually turns his back on us. Of course I speak hypothetically, I speak with great caution, precisely because all of these possible problems that are really possible are simply avoided. It is therefore also important to have a decision on the process of adopting the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia, which includes the Croatian Parliament through the National Committee and all government structures. But we also respect it fully, even if in some cases a little longer, and the negotiations on certain chapters continue. Any hiding, any discretionary government decisions in these negotiations are undesirable, any avoidance of communication with parts of the interested public is simply unacceptable. And it's going to be a sensitive issue that they're going to bring, there's going to be sensitive issues that are going to bring the negotiations into question. I do not see any problems either, I remember some countries from this last round of enlargement that have come to the brink of even cancelling the desire to join the European Union for the inability of an adequate solution to certain transitional periods or exceptions. In these cases, we need to use the Croatian public, in these cases we need to get to know the Croatian public in detail, just to get the consent of the Croatian public to continue negotiations, even if some chapters should be opened. Just when the negotiations are in jeopardy and if they come into a jam, then there will have to be a lot of agreement in both this House and the National Committee and the Croatian public, and then, in fact, this feeling of our negotiators, our Government, and the National Committee will have to be respected and public opinion. This Resolution I dare say that it has well identified relevant issues and areas where certain exceptions should be sought. Of course, only when the negotiations begin to be negotiated that we will, in a concession for each chapter, determine certain pragmatic concrete points of view that the exceptions are two, three, five or fifteen or eighteen years. In particular, I stress the importance that in the prominent place, i.e. in the first place to seek exceptions, agriculture is placed, i.e. the requirement for a transition to find transitional periods, for mechanisms for the level and dynamics of direct payments to Croatian agricultural producers from the European Union budget, the determination of production quotas for specially sensitive products and deadlines for reaching the quality standards. We know through this general definition very precisely what we want. We want to enable that large number of Croatian agricultural producers to be able and competitive to producers in the European Union over a certain period of time. It's not just an economic question, it's a sociological question, it's an identity issue. Don't forget the fact that there are only 10 to 12 thousand large agricultural producers in Croatia today. That there are hundreds of thousands of those who are in the incentive and VAT system, who certainly operate on purely market principles but that there are over 120 thousand outside of one category and outside of another category, and there are questions about how they will work, how we will introduce them into the European Union actually reflects the full meaning of the sociological issue. And let's not ignore the fact that by solving the issue of agriculture, in fact, and the existence of these people, we're actually solving about half a million people in this country. That's why it's important that agriculture comes first. In the end, the other countries were not at all amnesty to talk about agriculture the most and neither was the European Union amnesty from spending most of its funds on agriculture. In addition to agriculture, it is good that we have put real estate acquisitions in place because it is about the apparent disproportion of purchasing power between us and the people of the European Union, that we have put environmental protection in order to maintain the attractiveness of our spaces, but with a note that they are necessary, very large investments. That it is necessary to restructure the economy and so on, but also beyond those chapters that stand in this Resolution there are a whole series of chapters such as the movement of labour force and the movement of goods, public procurement, food safety, fisheries, customs, etc., which we will, of course, need to look for certain exceptions, that when these negotiations begin, when strategic starting points are established, we will, of course, discuss it in more detail. Of course, there's room for maneuvers and for those chapters. There is a provision in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the practice of the European Union on so-called ‘EU’. the general economic clause. No matter what I have expressed some caution, a certain desire to communicate fully publicly and openly with the public, that we are also seeking public assistance in those controversial situations, we have no doubt in the club that this resolution should be accepted. By bringing this resolution, we have set firm and clear frameworks and there is no other job than Mr. Chief Negotiator, members of the Government and Madam Minister, to accept the job. In this business, I am sure, and it seems to me that I may say this as a member of the National Committee you will have strong support from the National Committee but you will also have permanent requests from the National Committee for full public work, for full consultation with the National Committee, for you to regularly report to the Croatian public and thus create that necessary climate for the Croatian public, and not for politicians to accept the European Union as their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45352	Thank you very much. SDP's respected representative, Neven Mimica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45353	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a candidate country for membership in the European Union and negotiations on this membership begin. This is good news for Croatia because it also means the recognition of all the efforts and changes that have irrevocably brought Croatia closer to the values of the European Union in particular in the last 5.6 years. This is also good news for the European Union because it means that, after not finding out at the beginning of the crisis and war in the former Yugoslavia, the European Union finally has a defined policy that can contribute to stabilising the situation in Southeast Europe and produce that I say so to the new candidate and the new member of the European Union. And this is good news for the region that in Croatia gets motive, political model and economic leader who can advocate Europe in the region and the region in Europe. Today, the Croatian Parliament has a unique occasion. There is an even stronger opportunity to get involved in the adjustment process which will introduce Croatia into membership of the European Union as an equal partner. Such an important role in determining the framework, dynamics and content of the future development of Croatia's state and society had little to do with the assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Maybe it was only the first one from the early 1990s whose historical, state-of-the-art decisions we celebrated the other day. Today in the Parliament, we congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia and all those who have created the conditions for a decision to start negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union. At the same time, we in the Croatian Parliament today say that we are ready to be the one who will bring all legitimate expectations of Croatian citizens into the process of adapting to European standards and criteria and make sure that the negotiation process reflects and revives all their hopes for a better life in better Croatia. And that is why we representatives of the Croatian Parliament have the right and the duty to engage in the establishment of a strategic framework that will define Croatia's future place in the European Union and which we will clearly express what kind of Croatia we want to see in society with other European peoples? We have before us a proposal for a resolution on the strategic provisions for Croatia's membership negotiations in the European Union. It was made and unanimously adopted by the National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations. This confirmed that the political consensus on the fundamental objectives of our pro-European commitment continues. It also showed by this text of Resolution that all parliamentary political forces have decided and are ready to engage in the most important phase, the phase of communication of Europe to citizens, the phase of opening a public debate in the European Union, the stage of proving that after impulsive and emotional reactions from citizens to the delaying of the European Union to recognise our real readiness for membership that now comes a time of calm reflection on what advantages they are and what shortcomings of membership in the European Union. For us in the SDP, there has never been any doubt about the long-term benefits of membership, and this will also lead us to decide on this Resolution. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this Resolution. We will support it because it is for us a natural continuation of our commitment to modern, democratic European Croatia. The SDP has never had a problem with public declaration of its pro-European commitment. We had no problems even when we had the opportunity to translate this commitment into the concrete government policy in which we participated. Neither in power nor in opposition have we ever put ourselves in a position to be ashamed or to try to cloud the tracks of our long-term and consistent pro-European action. That is why we want to send a clear message here and here when giving consent to this resolution. For the SDP, the accession process to the European Union was and will be more important than the accession itself. During the reform process, legislation is changed, new economic conditions of business are created, the democratic system is strengthened, social relations are changed, institutions are established, and people are changing and their way of thinking and acting, which is also the most difficult reform. The real value of approaching the European Union is not only a membership but it is the internal process of permanent change for the better. Membership comes at the end of the road as a logically deserved and expected reward for well-done adjustments. That is why we see the process of European integration as an internally important process that we have decided on because of ourselves. We see membership in the Union as an asset, not the goal of our own social, economic and democratic development. So do not ask when we will join the European Union but ask when we will complete reforms and adjustments and become ready for membership in the Union. Starting with such SDP settings, it calls on all parliamentary clubs to unanimously support this approach and Parliament's role in strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the European integration process. Our willingness to agree on the EU's accession issues should not and should not be seen as a non-critical acceptance of everything that the Government will propose and implement in negotiations and in European adaptations. As the strongest opposition party, we have the right and responsibility to point out all government errors and failures in defining the pro-European policy, the sins of the inaction we see and of course we reserve the right and to expose all attempts to conceal and cover up some of the moves with alleged demands from Brussels. Be assured that the SDP will exercise its right to do so and fulfill its responsibility. We will be constructive in support of everything that is real European adaptations and critical of everything that doesn't lead us quickly and directly enough to the progress and repair of the current situation of the economy, the standard of living and the security of citizens. We are now publicly saying: we will not support an attempt to measure the success of the negotiations at their speed. For us, emphasis is on the quality of the negotiations, on the argument that we will show and prove why, in some negotiating chapters and areas, we need more time to accept the acquis of the European Union. For us, exactly the period ahead of formal membership in the European Union is the most important period for implementing decisive and specific measures that create conditions for better adaptation, economic growth, increased competitiveness and a more equal match with the members of the Union. Discussing the specifics of the negotiating framework is a good opportunity to point out two more things. First, no one, and especially not the Government and the negotiating team, must realize that we are now left with only negotiations and if we successfully complete them, everything will have a happy ending. We must all prepare together for triple work: negotiations, reform completion and Europe's communication to the citizens. Already today, we can say that preparations for the negotiations are making good progress, but reforms have slowed down, and in communicating the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the European Union, the government does not make anything effective. We are already setting out the emphasis we need to learn to define future activities both the Government and the Parliament and the entire society in these three areas. Secondly, the biggest delusion of the entire process of enlargement of the European Union has arisen since someone called the process a negotiation. Everything that happens in the relations of a country wishing to join the Union and the institutions of the European Union is in no way appropriate to the definition of the negotiating process. A country that wants to join does not have much chance of changing the conditions under which it will be admitted to membership. These conditions are pre-set by the European Union, they are the same for all countries and there are no negotiations on them. It is only possible to reach an agreement on a temporary or, in some cases, a permanent delay in the application of one of the conditions for membership and the duration of that delay. That is why I would prefer to call what is happening between the accession country and the European Union by negotiating rather than negotiating. This also excludes expectations that a good negotiating team can outwit and defeat the European Union's negotiators. This is really not about the winners and the winners of the negotiations, but about facilitating the implementation of reforms that will allow the country to develop as quickly as possible according to the model by which the European Union has developed and that the more prepared it enters the society of equal members of the Union. If somewhere in this process and there is a need to negotiate then it is the most pronounced on the domestic agenda to negotiate the bearers of the European integration process with all those who, for these or those reasons, resist the necessary reforms. We can agree by assessing the proposed text of the resolution that it is further concreteising and directing the negotiation process by the Parliament as a representative body and the expression of parliamentary democracy. Such a resolution will fill its role in the phase of the negotiating preparations and will strengthen the negotiating positions that the government will define and negotiate in the next phase of relations with the European Union. The resolution strongly and clearly lays down the basic provisions on which the negotiating positions will be built. It advocates several extremely important starting definitions, which highlight the need for Croatia to join the Union on the principles of equality, partnership and solidarity, to ensure the preservation of national identity and diversity in negotiations, and full protection of national interests, to maintain an individual approach to membership, to make the Croatian language official and working language of the European Union institutions and to ensure that Croatia's political and economic and financial position in membership in the Union is proportionate and comparable to members of similar sizes. It can almost be said that such provisions already define the positions that Croatia will represent in the upcoming discussions on the constitutional arrangement of the Union whenever they are launched and in a way that advocates the European Union as an alliance of states, not as a federal state. The resolution also precisely points to chapters and areas where the negotiating team will have to make specific efforts to justify both the choice and the appropriate transitional periods, which highlight agriculture, the availability of real estate, environmental protection and state support as particularly important but not exclusive areas in which an extended period for the application of the acquis of the European Union will be sought. With regard to the provision of negotiations, it will seek to complete in a time frame that would allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to participate in the next European Parliament elections in June 2009. We believe that such a commitment can be kept in the text of the resolution more as a motivating factor than an attempt to define realistically sustainable and more precise timings of the duration of the negotiations. For us, I repeat a more important provision from the next paragraph of the resolution, which speaks and calls for specific efforts to complete reforms and adaptations and the internal preparedness for membership by 2008. And here's the end of the call. Let us be clear about this resolution, let us show that Parliament has clear, common views not only on support for European values, but also on how to specify these values in Croatian, political and legislative life, and on the even more concrete influence of the Parliament on the formation of negotiating positions for each negotiating chapter. All parties will have the opportunity to declare and contribute to the regular work of the National Committee and in regular six-month discussions on the negotiating process at plenary meetings of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45354	Thank you very much. For the club HSLS, DC, LS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45355	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear Mr. Drobnjak, dear colleagues and colleagues. I really have to show one of my own private pleasures and feelings that I feel good because I am speaking for the club anyway, or parties who have expressed a distinctly pro-European orientation from the very beginning, and it has always been, not only since the 1990s, but it has been a part of some life philosophy, of a permanent political philosophy, and it's always good and it's a good feeling when one such orientation, one such attitude becomes a general place of our policy, and when a full national consensus is reached that there we are today, or these days, we can feel good. Although I believe that I will feel even better if indeed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can also vote for the European Parliament there in May 2009. Then, I say, it will be a great pleasure. There was a little talk here today about whether or not a sense of euphoria prevailed, and I think it's a good thing that the government itself did not encourage such a mood, but that it approached this fact as a job well done. And we really need to say that this part of the job is relatively well done. Some of us who, I say, had always had us in our political thinking led by this Europhilic mood may have shown a regret that something might have lasted too long, but apparently the contexts and circumstances were such that we had a little too long and we just had to make a wish, or hope that the opening of this start of negotiations would still significantly reduce this transition process and that in fact one part of the public had always had a mild feeling that we were being treated unfairly and that we were nothing weaker than any other transition countries. Also, I would also not want to bid on behalf of the Club here whether the harder part of the job is done or if that part of the job is waiting for us, but simply what is coming now is also one job that we will also have to do and what we also need to be clear here as politicians, as people who in some way create a certain political environment that there is no room for ingling. It is also simple that the work that awaits us will also have to open up some, some of the same topics that are still causing mild frustration in our public. This also means the relationship to The Hague and the return of the exiles, that these are still topics that will in some way be topics that will appear in the public and that will require certain solutions and we will have to deal with them. But what I think is very important to say is that we need to have one clear attitude not to do it for others, but that above all, the issue of The Hague and the theme of returning to exile, including some of the other topics that are in this resolution, are actually the topics that we must first of all do on behalf of ourselves and ourselves, because simply no one will look through our fingers. There are always these possibilities of a suspension veto and simply again, because of some of our perhaps internal political relations, we do not come into a situation where we ourselves will be a problem. This has already been said here, and it needs to be repeated. Yesterday, the colleague Drobnjak also said that, and some things are not being discussed, and these are precisely the legal gains of the European Union. But now the same thing that must be clear throughout the whole story, which is that not only is it possible but it is desirable to defend certain national interests as well. I'm saying, not only is that allowed but it's one and desirable behavior. What might actually be the worst, which is that we agree to some things, and then when we agree to start challenging them the other day, we actually start acting the opposite of what we signed ourselves. That is why, there is now the great responsibility of this negotiating team which will in some ways have this one specific framework, and that in some things, it is called the legal gain that is not being discussed, but now see how much from the experience of some other countries, transition countries, for example. Poland and others, in fact, appreciate and on this trail to set up and defend our own national interests, interests that we must nevertheless be more clear not to start from the same position, that we are now entering a community, a community that is even more complex than us, which is more complex, their complexity must be answered with our own complexity. In fact, these negotiations don't take place in some vacuum, in some air-breathed space, they're really working, they're doing problems, they're not just big, they're heavy, they're dynamic. No problem that will arise is a static category, but it will just require that, I say, this European complexity be answered by our own complexity. That, just what my colleague Mimica was talking about earlier, is now the beauty of these reforms and the changes that must happen in our own society. And what is, in fact, very good, which is now one focus and on our policies which have mostly been dealing with this foreign policy lately, that we can now transfer it to our internal problems and that now indeed our economy and our agriculture and the problems of unemployment and privatisation, which are still not solved once and for all. What makes me happy is that this National Committee has counted exactly the problems Croatia faces and will face in the future and will in some ways also be part of some of these negotiations. That's one relationship to regions, that's very important, isn't it? Everyone, right, just as we start in relation to Europe, from the same positions as the more developed countries in that same European Union, and within us there are regions, there are spaces that have not been developed evenly. In the end, we must always keep in mind the situation after the war, that some places have suffered more, that some of them are, in some ways, one smart, wise government policy has to run that selective policy, and that it has a special approach to allow those spaces and those regions to catch actually one rhythm with the development of those parts of the country that have had that happiness that, say, they have not passed what some other spaces have passed. Because if that's not how it goes along with these economic problems, we're going to face political problems, and then really, there's always one political force that one such fact can compromise, I can abuse, and I'm saying that wouldn't be good. So, exactly what this new situation is now for us, and this is the beginning of opening negotiations, it can enable, and that is indeed to improve these too, our own economic and democratic relations. Because none of us normally can say that there are no problems with us, that we are a country that is free of human and civil problems, that we have solved with the problem of impatience, that these are actually things that we adopt. Unfortunately these are things that are not, not those lessons that you can simply say that we have put ad acta, but exactly, I will be deeply happy if really entering the European Union, between the Inga and this typical liberal idea, I say as ideas of human rights, the problems of privatisation will be solved by not one different and better way than it has been done before. And what some wiser people have always said is the question of a better life is, in fact, the question of all the questions. And indeed if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't live better then we simply didn't make it as politicians, and they'll expect us to have that better quality of life, better and higher standard. It is good to hear that even now these economic indicators show these countries that entered the European Union a year and a half ago, and positive shifts. In some ways, the analogy is, they say in logic, not good, but I also hope that it will also happen when Croatia enters the European Union that then these economic indicators will show that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live better and that this principle of better life is, as a matter of fact, the principle of all political principles in Croatia is demonstrated. And lastly, what we should say both sometimes and speed doesn't have to be a virtue every time, but I think this is now and a time when we can participate ourselves in the anti-cipulation of some future processes and relations in the European Union. I say, it would be wrong for the European Union to be seen as one static fact, which is once and for all. It's not a non-conflict community, it's a community that's in certain processes. We could see this even during last year, when the negative votes on the European Constitution, for example in France and the Netherlands. And also, if you are reading these European newspapers, then you will also see that there is a repeat of the story that is very well known to us here in Croatia, which is that some are already saying that they pay a lot more in the European Union than they get from the same European Union. We know very well how it was in that former state community that it was a painful conversation and a painful situation, but that's all we can expect and where, I say, we just have to see. This future of the European Union is what it is, I say, a good goal, a positive goal. It is good to be part of the European family, but we also need to understand that there will also be a lot of problems and that certain fronts, polarisations are being created there, and that everyone, first of all, cares, despite European interests, cares for their own and defends and promotes their own political, economic and interest. I mean, in this very sense, this Parliament, i.e. as a legislative body at all, it actually provides an opportunity precisely for us to be imaginative and, I say, to help the negotiating team in the anti-ciplining of these future relations and, in fact, that we ourselves have some answers to these challenges that will come from that European Union. And for, I really am the end, I hope I won't, you know, a man can't get away from his profession, so then I wouldn't want to be seen as a petty man, but what what, like Krleža said, you know, some time a riot in sentences is actually the result of a mess in his own head. For a nuance, he would suggest this resolution to the National Committee if it was a little short, it's a little bit, the text's editorial is necessary. The more it's written in one language for which it's... He analyzed it under that slang of authenticity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This language sometimes does not express exactly what was meant to be said, that is, if we understand what was meant to be said, it does not necessarily mean that it will understand the public. I would just give, like, for example, that the word point 9 would then be seen as there's a lot of ambiguity in that point 9. One even wrong linguistic-semane analysis would show exactly that void of thought, and I don't think it would be a good thing that one resolution that is excellent, which is indeed and which is well followed by what is going to happen in this next period. It should, however, be much more complex from the language aspect, for example, it says. with the aim of promoting a knowledge-based economy, okay, this is how I think it's a little bit rough and it's not exactly in the spirit of Croatian language, but also why not by promoting an economy that would be based on the market and some others not only on knowledge and I say, but I don't want to say that I'm too petty, but it seems that in the end it has to talk about what I've actually been doing in life and schooling. And once again, the club of LS, DC and HSLS will give full support to this resolution precisely with the desire that in 2009, both our parties and our politicians will participate in the European Parliament's election. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45356	Thank you. SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45357	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I will join here those who have expressed their satisfaction with the start of negotiations with the European Union on our membership and, of course, express my satisfaction with the fact that, even the members of the national minorities in this segment have been able and made an important contribution to the fact that these negotiations can begin. I am not saying this because I think that there is a particular need to highlight the members of national minorities or their policy rather than because I want to say that for us, the time behind us that national minorities were the subject of dispute, conflict and conflict within the Republic of Croatia and that at this point of membership with the European Union, the approximations of the European Union, national minorities are being shown as an integral part of what is called the national Corps in Croatia in the political and valuable sense of that word. And that is what I particularly want to point out and that is what I consider to be the result of the work around the European Union that we have done over the past few years. And that is quite certain achievement that is irreparable, irreparable and without which nothing, no other values can function if there is no such. In this regard, I am convinced and convinced that representatives of national minorities, that members of minority communities in the Republic of Croatia will remain firm with pro-European orientation and Croatia and of course the values we develop and want to develop in Croatia. I am deeply convinced that if a misunderstanding arises about the implementation of these values, if a misunderstanding arises which some may misread, that this policy that I have characterised as a characteristic of the policy of the common national interest will prevail, overcome any separatical, any very obstructive elements that can be heard in society in this regard. Indeed, for me, Croatia is Croatia, which is not divided either by ethnically or by some other divisions that are still visible with us, which were ideologically so powerful as not elsewhere, were so strong that in other European countries they were no longer, either in a third or fourth possible way. And so much is this job that we have accepted and that we are doing with this launch of the negotiations really got our full and complete satisfaction and complete and complete confirmation. Now allow me two words about what we call negotiations. In our public, of course, political and political speeches talk much more often about membership negotiations than what is said about reforms that we need to do for ourselves, for ourselves, so that we can have Europe in Croatia. In other words, Europe is not just a question of negotiating membership, nor can it be. For us, the issue of negotiations and achieving membership position is not just a number of successful, professional and perhaps best negotiating team we have, because certainly this negotiating team will not or will not be in a position or good part of the people who are on the negotiating team will not be in a position to implement reforms in society, and without these necessary reforms in society, of course, only membership can cost us dearly. Without these necessary reforms to be made in certain segments of our society, we can, of course, be found with membership even if we get it through some kind of assessment that is not among the best or the highest. In other words, if we get not a very good one but just a passing grade. Such membership would certainly be risky for Croatia. This approach to Croatia's membership problem would certainly be problematic. In that sense, what should Europe really mean to us if not just membership? What should Europe mean for every man in Croatia? It is certainly a good part of what the 90s have symbolized and what people in some political idea had in their heads when they opted for a change in the political system and for an independent state. At the time, they certainly had Europe in their heads not entirely articulated, but they did. What exactly is it supposed to be for us today? Seems like a normal life to me. A normal life in which neither in this House nor in most of our environments will be sang and listened to by combatants instead of normal functioning and life. A normal life in which people will be sure of the values that they will live, that their children will live and that they will live after them. We don't have ladies and gentlemen today. We have general values that are mentioned here and in terms of national, both in terms of language and in terms of state. But when it comes to what we meet daily as humans, we still don't have those values in society. Secondly, it is quite safe to talk about the economic and other aspects of our position, with us one of the fundamental assumptions of good life, and that is what people want, that is what people identify with Europe. Why should he be in Europe? Well, because Europe is a place of good life, arranged, civilized, more organized than elsewhere. Where people live and can live from their work or what others do if you're not in a position to get a job right now. We don't have that. We do not have a situation in the fullest sense that we have values and a culture of work. In our case, this type of value, in our case, is actually damaged thoroughly, fat, and we have yet to create it. And when we talk about it, it actually implies not only the culture and the value of the work but also the protection of work and the ability to work, what is actually missing at this point in time. We are, of course, the first country to approach membership negotiations according to a specific model. In a different way than that was the case with countries that are now members. We, therefore, other than not only negotiating with the Commission but will negotiate with all existing members individually, we also have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So we don't just have the legal gain of the European Union, we don't have some specific interests of Croatia in trade, in property, in environmental matters or in the state of industry. We also have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which as we know, also has some other countries from the former Yugoslavia and Southeast Europe. And in that we're actually the firstborn, and in that we're actually the ones where a lot of things have been tried that others haven't tried before. And the question is this Agreement, the realisation of that Agreement will certainly have the same importance, if not greater, I would say, but the very method of negotiation. I'm a job that's gonna be a good part of our negotiating team. So of course it's a government job, of course it's a job and this Parliament, and of course it's a unit of local self-government and different segments of the institution that we have in our society. The negotiating team, ladies and gentlemen, cannot resolve the issue of corruption in our society. Negotiating this cannot resolve the issue of organised crime in our society. The negotiating team cannot resolve, for example, the issue of tolerance, respect for diversity, members of different national minorities. He can't handle it, he can possibly defend what he can defend or defend at a given time. This is the job that we really need to do and why we sit here in the Parliament, or government that has more power in this regard than we can have. And in that sense, I would like to say that each of us, by our own political work, each of us, can contribute to our political behaviour, should contribute by calling the creation of Croatian identity as part of European identity. European identity as part of Croatian identity. From the political culture we can have here to the political culture we can have in the Parliament. I recently heard that one of our colleagues here was asked on state television to allow a child, in this case a daughter, to marry someone who is a non-Croatian. And beyond that, who's a Serb? I'm not going to talk any further because it's not about me. It's about someone who shouldn't be concerned. The answer was, not if I was going to influence it. Ladies and gentlemen, on public television in a civilised country, not necessarily European, such matters do not allow for jurisdiction. In America, with all the racial differences and the forms of discrimination that exist, it is unacceptable to ask such questions on public television. And it is even less acceptable for someone who represents himself as a democratic politician and a Europe-oriented driver to answer such questions with boldness. In other words, in other words, to the extent that we will be free of those elements, those curtains that prevent us from seeing what real life is like in Croatia, to this extent we will actually be able to develop a better and more European Croatia than we have right now. Here in our declaration which is well served, balancedly engaged and the SDSS Club will support it, many places are dedicated to tradition, language, culture, identity and that's good. But not so much room for those other questions, the ones that depend on how many identities, languages, cultures and traditions we'll have. It happened to us that we don't have any more banks, we don't have factories, we don't have a whole bunch of other things that we've had, and we might even have less if we don't have a thoughtful relationship with what's called Project Europe. And if we don't realize that Europe isn't just a space of equal membership, it's at the same time a space where it's trying to colonize others and not being equal to others, so if we look at things on that side, then we'll be able to really access what we care about, what we're here for. And it is to maintain the sovereign will of this people and to protect the daily interest of life, not just the fundamental constitutional rights of our constituents, or our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45358	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, she's a respected representative, Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With much of Mr. Pupovac's exposure, I agree, but I am correcting his incorrect claim that we still have no fundamental value in our society. The Croatian people of the 14th century belong to the Catholic Church and have fundamental values that bind it to it, and in the last census, over 80% expressed their belonging to the Catholic Church and fundamental values. There are also traditional, religious and national and cultural values in Croatian society, and according to them we belong to a European cultural circle throughout the centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45360	Mr. Pupovac has expressed his opinion. The second correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45361	It is an incorrect allegation that other public televisions are not allowed to express hate speech, ethnical, nationalist, racist views. In America, the worst racists are left to express it, and the mission or the sending of television is to show the public that it is precisely the kind of attitudes. It would be bad if the Croatian public had no right to know that they exist in Croatian society and such people. And we need to know that these are attitudes that are most unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45362	Thank you very much. These are all different opinions. We're moving on to an individual discussion. The first is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45363	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that I'm probably going to spoil this solemn atmosphere that feels in the air of the assembly about making this resolution, but I belong to those people who like to discuss less in principle, and more concrete and applicable. I always wish our decisions were such that we had clear goals, clear carriers, exact deadlines and sanctions if we don't realize something. In that sense, I'm going to make a few suggestions here, suggestions, that we might do things a little differently in the future. I can agree that this resolution has two fundamental objectives. One goal is to convince the European Union and Europe that all political forces in Croatia are unique in terms of pro-European policy. It's a clear political message and I agree with that. The second benefit of this Resolution is probably that we are giving the first framework to our negotiators, within which they must think and try to do their very important work. That's good, that's very good, but if it's enough colleagues and colleagues. In fact, December 3rd has passed, now we are expected to do more, in particular, that is expected of Europe, but I also think of our citizens. I hope this is the last principle document of this species to come to our assembly benches, I repeat that this is the last document. From now on, we need to be much more concrete, much more serious, with much more professional analysis of access to everything that will concern Europe in every sense. Namely, colleagues and colleagues begin screening in just 7 days, the evaluation of Croatia's situation in certain areas and the willingness to start negotiations begins. This screening will take about a year and it would be clear that we in this House know a little bit more about it, we know a little bit more about the order that this screening will go to to know more about what the government will do to prepare certain areas and people in these areas for this screening in order to make clear negotiations start as quickly as possible and be pleased with all of us. Here in this Resolution, I, like myself, would point out only three articles, three points, points 8, 9 and 10, and in those three points, I would narrow the whole resolution down to just 5, 6 key sentences. The national development plan, in point 9, is mentioned, why we do not have it, which is the consequence of not having such a plan, colleagues and colleagues I want to remind you and I hope that the National Committee is already collecting a little bit of construction in that sense, in the period 2001 to 4, Croatia has used all 10 euros of grants for reforms that we are talking about here today, why it is so, I don't know, or better to say I know but it would take a very long time to discuss it here. Then in this period of 2005 and 6, we are again offered 250m euros, as we pass in an attempt to obtain these funds, I recently spoke to people close to the European Commission, and they said, unfortunately, they were quite disappointed with the way in which certain regional projects were presented. and that they couldn't give the green light to these projects, I won't talk about those who got the red light but I'll say that they talked very nicely about colleagues in Karlovac, I don't know who was on the carlovac negotiating team for these regional development projects but it's nice to hear in Europe that they respect the approach of colleagues in the carlovac way of presentation, the elements they went with and that it's not at all controversial that the CARDS funds will get that money. Therefore, this must not happen to us, that such means of quality, grants are not used, and it would be clearly good to see the screening and the start of negotiations that will surely follow in 3.4 months that this Parliament is also monitoring through the National Committee everything that is going on in that field. Point 8 refers to agricultural standards, and in particular points out quality standards. It would be good to hear what we are planning to do in this year to correct these very quality standards, I believe that it would be much easier for Mr Drobnjak to negotiate if he had certificates on the quality of our agricultural products and then agreed quotas rather than without clear these documents, and such clear guarantees that these are indeed quality products in line with European standards. As regards the longer transitional periods proposed, for example for supporting, I fully agree with the shipbuilding industry, the steel industry is pointed out, however, my coastal and my islanders will definitely object to me and ask why you did not try to fight because the whole of Europe respects the extreme conditions in which people live on islands, the extreme conditions in which people live in mountainous and mountainous areas why it does not stand and here to try to give a clear framework within this story to our negotiators to try to protect them too, because it really respects Europe, therefore let us be more concretely clear if we were to aim, then let's not jump such a large group because it can certainly help our negotiators to stand behind them. So, colleagues and colleagues, I might just end up with one possible task of our National Committee. That it follows the implementation, so the application of all those laws that we have brought into line with the laws of the European Union, here two days ago, Mrs Chikesh and Mr Mimica and I were in London at a meeting of all representatives of the Committee on European Affairs and the main topic was the "Impact Assessment" that would be an assessment of the effectiveness of European laws, Europe proposes if the laws were not effective.../the speaker was excluded. So, if the laws are ineffective, then they should be withdrawn, there is no reason why the dead letter stands on paper, if something can be done, we should clearly remove these mistakes, use and achieve the objectives that we want to achieve through the application of the European laws, and we have installed 200 laws in our legislation, and we have done no analysis of the effectiveness of these laws so far, and as soon as we enter the European Union, be safe colleagues and colleagues, it will be one of the first tasks of the European Union to evaluate and monitor us with regard to the implementation and effective implementation of these European laws. So I would just conclude, therefore, less emphasis, less incentive, less calling and more concrete duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45364	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45365	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's essentially not a classic replica, but it's the addition of this part that Mr. esteemed colleague said, it's about that part that I have to admit to the fear of those 1,000 people of our negotiators, because so far we've had a lot of examples where we've had bad negotiating teams, like the last one with the United States of America about those free military bases that the Department of Defense worked on. In fact, there are even stories in the towers that we must be well concerned that many who will negotiate who will be in these teams are primarily interested in a place in the bureaucracy of the European Union and therefore we should have information about the quiet 1,000 people to see who will negotiate it on behalf of Croatia and how they will negotiate. That we can take measures in due time so that we do not have that variant as we have now in many cases of negotiations that the variant that was offered has been accepted because they have led more interest in themselves than in the interests of Croatian and Croatian citizens, it is a big problem that will be very concerned about it because I think we should regularly here as representatives of the Croatian Parliament who bring this Resolution to know who will negotiate it and how they will negotiate, that we have information about all these people because I am afraid that this could end badly. Thank you very much. Only in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45366	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ivica Mastruko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I certainly do not personally belong to those who are particularly priced and who have a high opinion otherwise on the resolutions and declarations of different types, except clearly those resolutions adopted by the Security Council and which are effective and effective at least as regards the part of their implementation. Resolutions and declarations are what I would call adding dishes, their kind of vegetarians or Vegeta in political menus. But to tell you the truth, I don't see any other option in our case when we start these agreements that my colleague Mimica rightly said with the European Union that Parliament should bring and accept just one such document, one such resolution, one such principled political document that has no operational value in itself but is indeed a declaration, a declaration and one principled position. Because what's the matter? The Assembly cannot enter into the operation and operational details of the negotiations. That's why we've just got a negotiating team, we've got a big broad circle of people. They are not all negotiators, but in these thousands of people all of the people, consultants of those who accept the procedure. The operation is therefore on the negotiating team, we can only speak in principle. And we know, and we've heard that the task force itself doesn't have much room for maneuvers in view of the acquis and all those documents that have already been said here. As for the concrete observations or remarks, I will mention points 2, 4 and 7 and 8 of this Resolution. This is the first time around the date indicated here and listed as the goal it seeks to complete in a time frame that would allow Croatia to participate in the next European Parliament elections in 2009. I really agree with those who have stated that this date should not be taken as a binding one. It is good and it is good that it is listed as a government obligation but not as some kind of burden on the entire society and the whole of Croatia as a great waitout to welcome Godo or as an imperative because we are frustrated enough in the last few years with different dates. We live from this date to that date, we burden ourselves with dates in public starting negotiations, signing this document or that document. In doing so, all public attention is focused on these dates and then, of course, follows a whole series of different propaganda-political-party steps that the instrument-allising these dates is actually trying to ideologies the very fact that these dates are linked to. So I'd like to stop living between one date and the other. People mostly live between 1st and 30th or 31st, but for the date, I say only as a goal, as a government obligation, but not as a general burden, and when we are ready to make it clear then we can count, when Croatia is ready to participate in the elections for the European Parliament. In point 4, we are pleased and I would like to suggest it in some way to the negotiating team, which is listed with this mid-European which we have been constantly pointing out as well as the Mediterranean country's identity, the Danube we already know because lately it seems to me that in one of our general orientations and also our foreign-political activities we have forgotten about our Mediterranean mentality, our Mediterranean identity and everything that is Mediterranean... Regarding points 7 and 8, what concerns me is not deadlines and transitional periods whether it will be three or four years. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] We are witnesses, in fact, when we and our domestic obligations have, or the laws, transitional periods, that we do not mostly use these transitional periods or use them to adapt, but that we usually do so at the last minute. Is something accepted as a transitional period, as a delay for three or five years, I think it's irrelevant. If we're willing to do something for five probably the first two, three years in our old custom we're doing nothing to use at the last minute to do this transition period, namely to end it in a successful way for the future. Therefore, that emphasis on these transitional periods of tension around the year, two or three will not be of particular importance to Croatia unless we are ready to use this transitional period in the interest of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. So one thing I'd say is more important to me than this transitional period is the obligation to use transitional terms wisely. Exceptions will clearly be difficult to get through but I say the experience is other countries that did not use these transitional periods wisely I think should be a warning to us too. In the end, I will vote personally for this resolution but clearly given those fences that I said at first I will vote for it primarily as for a document that manifests itself, which in some ways shows our goodwill. So, as one form of political marketing, I would say, like, to be a little more ground floor, as a form of Coca-Cola marketing, as an addition to that political menu of a kind of "Vegete" and noting that it shouldn't be expected and I didn't expect the resolution to have any operational efficiency and efficiency because it's not really the purpose of the resolution. It does not contain that dimension in itself. And finally at last in parentheses to mention about these remarks concerning the language and terminology of text and one political meta language, believe it will be better and clearer when translated into one of the foreign languages because it will have to turn out to be a more logical translation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45368	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45369	Here, almost by accident I'll be moving on to the discussion of colleagues Doric and Mastruk. My position is also to adopt or not adopt this declaration nothing important will happen, it has no practical value for negotiators. It's one in a series of viewing documents. I can personally be against and for her, it's no use. What we need to worry much more about here is the negotiating history of Croatian diplomacy. In less of all the negotiations we've been through badly, I'll tell you what it was about. If you take border negotiations with Slovenians, negotiations on the Ljubljanska banka, negotiations on the distinction down at Klek and Neum, negotiations on the demarcation down in Boka Kotorsko bay near Cape Ostro, negotiations on succession, etc. If you do a serious analysis, you'll see that they're always smart people, very educated, but they didn't have any specific knowledge of negotiation. These were university professors, diplomats, decent people who had other priorities, people who were negotiating the sale of some banks had the ambition to end up in the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund, etc. So we need to know that there is unfortunately no textbook in Croatia on political and diplomatic negotiation. I've got two, three at home, so I'm gonna give my colleague a gift because I got it from my older son anyway. There's no seminar. There is no shop at any of the Croatian universities. So, first of all tomorrow, we should at least organise a serious negotiation course at the diplomatic academy, negotiating strategies. The man I know was named Loan... It's an American famous lawyer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He conducted practical negotiating courses with the Qur'us. I've been in the O.R. for eight months. Hindus are an extremely smart people, especially Siki. However, they have one deficiency that is metabolic. They often eat and after two, three negotiations now become hungry and nervous and it is a tactics of negotiating with such people to extend negotiations to make the hypoglycemic crises force them to ad hoc negotiation. So, in a different way, it's negotiated with sugar patients, neurotics, etc. The negotiating team has virtually no negotiating experience. Boris Vujčić, say I would never put him in that guy, he's a young boy, without any experience, he's been dealing with some financials. Therefore, if we want to do a serious job, I must say first of all, that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader meant left or right, whatever he wants, one of the perhaps most successful Croatian negotiators. What he has done here is the great, perhaps the greatest negotiating success in modern Croatia. He would be a much better negotiator than other negotiators, and you will easily conclude that if you read media coverage in the last 15 days, 15 days about Europe. No good has written anything about the fact that Croatia has succeeded in starting negotiations on the European Union. This is a major task of Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian public and should give the Parliament's duty to this government to create a positive negotiating climate for these negotiators. I'll tell you, I was with my colleague Doric now in Strasbourg and there I met quite accidentally Dennis McChain, that's the man who wrote in the Financial Times that the late Tudjman, I've been calling him the late dictator the same thief, thief and murderer as Slobodan Milosevic. And he introduced me to Miomir Zuzul and I told him, Mr. McChain what happens to you, my son sent me an e-mail saying you're some kind of lunatic. And he says about this, Robin Cook told me, what I'm saying can be confirmed by colleagues Mimica and Doric and there was Miomir Zuzul, he told me how to get to Dr Tudjman. He said it was coming through a 100-metre corridor, it was entering a lobby that was as big as a small volleyball court, and his office was like a basketball court and he was sitting at a table dressed in a white uniform as Mussolini. More or less, as you can see and, I've said about you're one fool, you don't understand anything, of course a ton can say Smally. We need to know how we negotiate, what we negotiate. When I talk about these very courses that should be organised and tested by negotiators, you have extremely educated people who don't know everything in the world who are disastrous negotiators. I'm such a man. You've got people working on selling sports equipment. A friend of mine, one of them's name is Make Luke, I'd let him negotiate everything. He's from Imotsky and he's been doing this his whole life. He can do it. How will the Drobnjak negotiate? I don't know. He's too polite and too good a family. I believe he'll negotiate well, I don't know. I can negotiate with Hindus. So, the bad circumstance is that, please nice, that, I'm talking about a very serious thing. The principle of the National Committee is Ivica Racan, an extremely harmful negotiator, and I have a contract with Slovenians. If there was a negotiation course at this academy, then it would be a guideline, so-called. as a "failor story," as one of the missing stories about not having to negotiate. And in that sense, I would like to say today that our negotiators must very urgently test not their knowledge, their education and practical skills, the speaking of foreign languages, whether they were with these people, whether they are able to negotiate, but to see who these people are, what their interests are, what their specific abilities are, whether they have negotiated somewhere, what their negotiating résumés are. These are the things we have to talk about. And when it comes to the document itself, there are a lot of things that, in some ways, represent humiliation for this High House. From, say, too often using the concept of a transitional period, which is known as the Marxist term, to the excessive use of the concept of Croatian national interests. It's better to talk about Croatian interests because they can also be national, they can be civil, they can be traditional, they can be professional, they can be down there. At one point, it is claimed that a commitment should be made to respect the Stabilisation and Association Agreement literally. I'm absolutely against it. Because these new negotiations allow us to allow those elements of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that ad hoc superficial negotiations have been introduced into the Agreement, first of all, on the right of foreigners to acquire property rights within 4 years of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, modifying these new negotiations. So I wouldn't have given anyone here in some way a note without covering the negotiation. We must have parliamentary hearings for the most responsible negotiators. Rest assured, I'd be happy to participate, have experience testing someone, whether he can negotiate or not. If he is from Imotski, I would give him a steady advantage over negotiators from other parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45370	Thank you. He's got property that's not from Imotsky. And the other thing, Mr. President of the National Committee, Mr. Ivica Racan is no negotiator but the president of the National Committee on behalf of this Parliament who has chosen. So, I don't think it's appropriate to speak in context of what you were talking about Mr. Racan. ... No, he's not a negotiator. He's the president of the National Committee. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it's Mr. Representative Frano Piploic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Negotiator, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I probably won't be as argumentative and sharp as my colleague Leticia, but let me say a few words at first. As we're already considering supporting this resolution, let me say a few words about the testimony we had at the beginning of this debate. If you were to judge Europe according to these statements as your colleague, as your colleague Cain painted Croatia and relations in Croatia, I am afraid that Europe would be scared of both Croatians and Croatia, and that instead of some successful negotiations and adjustments, you would actually have a very developed "croatphobia" in European terms. In history, it has been reported that Europeans and llo temporas were frightened by Croats. They were scared of Francis Trenk and his cops. In fact, not all Europeans, but husbands and individual husbands who were afraid that their wives were not looking so longingly for Croats, or the Pandours of Francis Trenko, wanted to see them more. Therefore, I think that this one, I would like us to be seen in that way again by the Croats of this Europe and the Europeans, longingly, but that we know how to set ourselves up in all that quality. This resolution actually, who follows it closely, can see one intention to go straight into negotiations, to go with dignity and to go responsibly and to what seems most important, to go complicated. And allow one parallel, let's say, as of 1991 when the socio-political environment was such that we set out in Croatia's defence together and that's why we succeeded. It seems to me that there are elements, and we have the same elements today in 2005 that a similar socio-political environment has been created and that we are going by consensus in negotiations for Croatia's full membership in the European Union. I believe that we will succeed again, clearly if we agree to keep to ourselves what we agree. This resolution is a logical sequence of government procedures, meaning the current government of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the former government, former Prime Minister Ivica Racan. I believe it's also a sequence of those acts, decisions made by this House of Commons. I would especially point out that it is good that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader himself, both here in Parliament and in the public, gave recognition to former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, is good that Mr. Ivica Racan also gave his confession, thanked Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. It is a good thing the President of Parliament, Mr. Vladimir Seks, in his speech a few days ago here in Parliament, gave recognition to the president of the state. So it all affected me, I believe, to create this one favorable environment that we can go out with a resolution like this. The whole adjustment and negotiation process is clear to everyone that it will take place on two levels. One level is this narrow team of negotiators that I believe are ready for these negotiations. I wouldn't show any doubt in advance about their ability and willingness to negotiate. The second level is, in fact, all of us, the whole society that we have to do while negotiations continue, we need to transform and coordinate in accordance with standards that are prescribed by the pace of our transformation and alignment with the set standards depends on both the pace of negotiations and the results themselves that we are quality, it will be a good, favourable wind in the back of our negotiators. But at the end of the day, I would also express one concern, in fact, to highlight the responsibility of all of us that it will be far more difficult for us here in Croatia, to all of us than it will be for the negotiators. I do not believe that they will do anything and do what the National Committee will not have, in some way be informed, which will not be known by the Government, which this Parliament will not know. That is why it is good that this resolution is the result of the consent of all relevant political factors in Croatia and in this sense I welcome it and will give my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45372	Thank you very much. That's the debate, they're reported for discussion, we're done with the debate. The chairman of the committee who also explained this motion for a resolution will now address. Here you go, Mr. Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45373	Comrades and colleagues, allow me just a few words at the end of this debate. First, I remind you once again that this resolution is an enforcement of the obligations that the National Committee has received from this Parliament. Secondly, as with any document that may intend to be short and core, they can always be written and slightly different. Compared to critics of this text proposal, I remember one known in the history of statesmen who said, "It is best to put critics in the next writing of laws or texts and then their criticism will be less." But some of it is understandable. What seems to me to be said in the end, the debate, and I thank the people who, colleagues and colleagues who discussed it, especially in the name of the representatives' clubs, because in this debate there is clearly supported by this motion for a resolution. What is logical in relation to several minor remarks, they will be entered in the language editor of the text of this Resolution which does not cross over that we put this Resolution to the vote tomorrow. I also immediately propose that, since many things were very much present in the debate, and we could not bring these things in, explain in the text of Resolution, I suggest that one full information about what is coming in these negotiations, especially in the screening that is first on the agenda, that this information be given by our negotiating team, by the chief negotiator or the head of the negotiating delegation or both, as it was well given to the National Committee, that it be day, when it is possible here first and before us by all parliamentary representatives, and I think that this information is very good and that it would remove some of the issues that have been heard in this debate, which is not about the text of the Resolution itself. So my official proposal is as soon as possible to agree to get that information to all MPs here. I think it's necessary and I suggest it as president of the National Committee. Now, I'd just like to say a few things taxically short. First of all, the question is, is someone having this problem, can we nominate this phase as a negotiation? We know what negotiations mean. Negotiations somewhere mean sitting two sides and trying to make arguments agree on a common position that they will sign. These negotiations are not evenly negotiated in this regard. Someone said well, it is the shortest formulation, negotiations on their content, and the objective is simply to take over the legal gains of the European Union. But not only that, the question of how legal gains are being taken over, let's say here in our country. I think it is terribly important to keep in mind something, and I will now say it this way, where Croatia may be in a difficult situation than the previous countries that have negotiated with the European Union and have successfully completed negotiations and entered the European Union. There is already a greater accent being thrown here by the European Union not only the lack of legal gains, as we will translate the standards and regulations of the European Union into the laws of the Republic of Croatia which we will vote here but is now hardening and I want to warn it in a working, strong tightening of issues not only of the adoption and adoption of the laws but also of their application. The European Union did not accidentally come to that tightening. He's got experience negotiating with other countries right now. Someone has said well in the negotiations on our part that we understand each other immediately, we should not, should immediately lose hope that in these negotiations it is possible in some easy way to achieve some of our goals and interests. Negotiators by the European Union are professionals and they have already practiced against all such possible tricks, attempts, etc. And I believe that our serious negotiating team and doubts about it and I personally reject it for now, and the result will indeed be seen when the negotiations are over. It couldn't have happened if everything was said in advance, I expect a good result, but what's important is I'm sure that a serious negotiating team will not be used by means that can compromise us. But the European Union has learned some things, especially countries that are yet to enter the European Union, that I can say here in work, I mean Romania and Bulgaria. There went the phenomenal rapid adoption of the law, the passing of the law and the paper adoption of the acquis of the European Union, the lack of application. After that, the European Union rightly goes and throws its weight and implements, and we may be the first country to feel one more requirement in this way and we must be prepared to do so. Here I agree with those debaters who have tried more or less in this direction to warn about the problems that await us. I, in that sense, would refuse to discuss whether the road behind us or ahead of us is the hard way. The hard way was behind us, we know where we're going to get to this last part of the negotiations with the European Union now. But not to quote, not to compromise, it's a difficult road, I think, and in front of us for what I was talking about. And not just for what I was talking about. Some things will not be easy to apply in Croatia. Some changes that we need to continue to work faster in Croatia will not be easily accepted by a part of the population, people. It will take an extremely good, I agree, promotional strategy to monitor these negotiations. It won't be easy. I guess, when we can do that, there is a joint work that seems to me, and a sense of joint responsibility for this strategic interest in Croatia. But I agree with someone who warned you about it from this pay phone. We still have a lot to adopt from valuable standards that are not an integral part of our practice and our life. Change in that direction won't be easy. Let me, let me, the behaviour that we can persuasively qualify both Balkan and intolerant, etc., normally will have to fall during these negotiations and the deviation from some practice we know how to deal with, will not be possible if it is about entering the European Union. Therefore, the work will be sufficient. And let me get this straight. We mention in the text, in the motion resolution some possible dates until we would like the job done. This is how we mention 2008, including 2008 and not just up to it. The desire to finish our part of the job, that's just intention. We also want Croatia to finish this job so that Croatia participates in elections for the European Parliament in 20096. That's, let me say in person, an extremely ambitious plan. Some say unreal, but I don't get now about whether or not it's real, how unrealistic the plan is. It's up to us. I'd like the situation if we could commend ourselves. We have finished our part of the job, it is in Europe to finish its part of the job and accept Croatia's entry into the European Union. And that's why it seems to me that, and there's a lot of work, not just for the Parliament, for the negotiating team, for the government. We still have a lot to do for ourselves, which has been very much here, with right, speech, and not for the European Union. So I would really support here the thought of my colleague Mimica who said, it would be very clever if in this case from now on we would no longer quote about the date. Not about when Croatia will be admitted into the European Union, but when we will make the necessary changes, adjustments and reforms for ourselves. Until when? And then only then do we ask the question and what about the accession to the European Union. If it could be an integral part of the promotion of our work and the public, then we would have done a lot already. I conclude, which is why it seems to me that one more piece of information that would remove at least some questions and some dilemmas would be necessary. And I suggest if it's possible tomorrow, if it isn't possible, that you leading the Parliament agree on the first possible occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45374	Thank you. I would like to conclude a debate on the Resolution on Strategic Definitions. The vote will be tomorrow. I would like to inform my representatives that the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Mr Dragutin Pukleš, has called a session now at 13:30 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. We will now interrupt the session, and at 3 p.m. continue that debate that we interrupted, the proposal for a strategy of management of the waste of the Republic of Croatia, at 3 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45375	Proposal for a Resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union. I am voting on the motion for a resolution, but before we have one conclusion from the Club of Representatives of HSU which I think should be before we can, or later. It is only the Government of the Republic of Croatia's duty to refer within a certain period to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of a comprehensive communication strategy. Who's here from the government about that? I spoke to the Minister today...... [[No one.]] Please, colleague Kovacevic, with the minister, please, it is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I spoke to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration who was supposed to be here, I don't know why she's not here. And with her saying that she would accept that amendment only if it was too short a 30-day deadline and that it would agree with the 60-day deadline. So, yeah. I am voting on the motion for a resolution first. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union was adopted by 95 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. And now I am voting and this conclusion, with the opinion that it is in agreement with the proponent's conclusion. The deadline is not 30 days, but 60 days for the government's obligation to direct it to the Croatian Parliament communication strategy within 60 days. Please engage. Please vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached with a 60-day deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45378	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I propose to the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Government to support the Croatian Government's decision of 12 October this year, which led the government to decide on the transfer of 7% of INA shares, the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, without compensation. This is a proposal that I will believe all MPs from the Croatian Parliament support, it is, of course, in accordance with the Law on Privatisation of INA, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War, that is, in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Ladies and gentlemen, when you make a decision, if you make it, I believe that you will support the government in its decision, we will have 7% of the shares of the Croatian Telecom already transferred to that fund in the Croatian Defence Fund. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present with your permission further with this decision and only a very short chronology of events related to the Croatian Defence Fund, the establishment of the Fund, I believe that these are useful information for all of you and I am sure that they are extremely important to all of you because they are talking about the care of all of us, the care of the Croatian Government, the care of the Croatian Parliament for Croatian defenders and members of their families and, of course, the achievement of all those legal obligations to which we are bound by the Law on the Fund, the Law on Privatisation, but also the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. I would like to remind you that last year, or in 2004, in order to begin at all with the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund, we had to further amend and supplement the Fund Act in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Commission. So it wasn't just the idea of the Croatian Ministry of Defence or the Croatian Government, it was the Commission's request for securities. Otherwise, according to their observations, the fund under the law adopted in 2003 could not be fully established and would be in its implementation of significant problems. Then, the Statute of the Croatian Defence Fund was adopted, the Rules on criteria for selecting a society, we opened a competition for selecting a society, we chose an asset management company, I think it was also one of the most important decisions. Then, I believe that most MPs and MPs know that it is in the competition, so the public tender, with the public opening of offers and everything that goes with such a contest becomes "Erste Invest d.o.o.", so as a company for the management of the fund's assets and then at the meeting of the fund on 15 February this year, a conclusion was adopted that a request was submitted to the government for the transfer of 7% of the shares of the HT, there was the fund's decision, i.e. the government's proposal respected and transferred, as I said, shares of HT to the Croatian Defence Fund. According to what we have in the report of the Association for Property Management, I want to inform you ladies and gentlemen that so far the value of the shares expressed in kunas, the value of shares of HT transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund is somewhere, something more now, I cannot say in full because, of course, things are changing, but it is somewhere around a billion and 300 million kuna. The government's decision today in front of you refers to 7% of the INA shares, which means 700 thousand shares. What's that going to be, what is that amount in kuna we'll see. Also, ladies and gentlemen, you know that, in parallel with this job, a job has been done to create a register of Croatian defenders, which is necessary for the participation of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We finished the job and already delivered the register to the property management company, so "Erste Invest". This job was done on September 23rd and we are now in a new phase, in a new period. We agreed, since when the register was completed, we ourselves, so when I speak to me about the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, we announced that this job should be completed even more in the sense that it must be developed, that is to separate combat from the non-combat sector. About 85% of that work has already been done. We plan that, in line with the announcements from the Ministry of Defence by the end of this month, this job will be fully completed, so separate combat from the non-combat sector and then the calculation of the number of shares for each member of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War will begin in accordance with the criteria adopted by the Management Board of the Fund and adopted by the Croatian Government. We predicted that this work that must be done by the company for the management of the property, so to calculate the share for each defender, must be completed by the end of January 2006, and then the delivery would take place to each member of the Croatian Defence Fund and their family members about the number of shares in the fund. And finally here you are with this decision I remind you that, as I said earlier, we have made very clear criteria for the award of shares in the Croatian Defence Fund. These criteria were proposed by the Defence Associations of the Associations of Homeland War to the Trust Management Board. These criteria were not complemented by the Fund’s management board, so it did not touch any letters and so the proposed criteria were also adopted by the Government without any single intervention, so these criteria are actually the original criteria of the Association of Homeland War coordination, so Croatian defenders. These criteria provide for several categories, so the fighting sector, of course, is understandable, the non-combat sector, then the family of the mortally injured, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders who make the maximum number of points, the captured Croatian defender from the Homeland War who was imprisoned in the defense of sovereignty in the enemy prison and camp. Every day spent in prison is worth eight points. As for the fighting sector, there are points determined according to the time of participation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, or in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Here, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I suggest once again on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you accept this decision, this proposal on the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45379	Thank you very much. The War Veterans Committee? The chairman of the committee, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45380	Mr. President, dear Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! The Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 18th session held on 13 October this year a decision on the transfer of 7% of the shares of INA to the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with an act of 12 October 2005 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for consent. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families prescribes the right of Croatian defenders and members of their families to share shares without charge from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or according to specific regulations which are or will be privatised by companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Law on the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry d.d. The transfer of 7% of shares to Croatian defenders and members of their families is prescribed and will be established by special law by the Croatian Parliament. The decision on order and dynamics of privatisation of INA prescribed the need to give consent to the Croatian Parliament. The establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, established by the Croatian Parliament since 1 October 2003, has provided for the transfer of parts of the shares that are intended for special laws on the privatisation of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia to defenders. Thus 7% of Croatian Telecom shares have already been transferred to the fund in February this year. In a brief discussion, board members welcomed the decision to transfer 7% of INA shares to the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families but the opinion is also expressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respect the Law on the privatisation of the INA of the oil industry d.d. i.e. its Article 5(2), which states that the income of the state budget of dividend is not achieved by shares intended for Croatian defenders. This Article 7 which does not define a due dividend from the moment of transfer of shares to the fund. Following the debate, the board decided, by a majority, five votes in favour and three abstentions, to agree on a decision to transfer 7% of INA shares to the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation. It suggests a course of adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45381	Thank you very much. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. President-in-Office Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45382	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Minister of Honor, the Honorable Representatives! The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 13 October 2005 discussed the Decision on the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act of 12 October 2005 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for consent. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that decision as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: The decision to transfer 7% of the INA shares of the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45383	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HSP MPs' club, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45384	Mr. President, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! As a representative of the Croatian Party of Rights, I am in the third term and defender in Croatian I find it difficult to discuss such a topic. However, I did not hope that I would have to after having discussed HT shares that I would have to discuss it this way and that in such a beautiful decision to be made for the benefit of Croatian defenders, the shadow fell in the text of the decision. And it fell in a way similar to the shadow that exists in the decision to transfer shares of Croatian Telekom. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, I am as an advocate and as an authorised proposer to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but our Committee on Law did not find it appropriate to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament from 4 July, so to this day I simply found no way and I believe that I will find a way to put my request on the agenda. Not because I think someone should be given money but because I am convinced that the decision did not respect a law that explicitly states that dividends belong to the Croatian Defence Fund. There's no dispute about it, and it's the same thing in this case. As regards the Croatian Defence Fund and these two and this INA Privatisation Act, as well as the HT Privatisation Act, it should be mentioned that those who are in difficult circumstances because there was a lot of resistance about it in the past term to pass those two laws and to pass the Fund Act, however, it has passed. Although there has been a lot of resistance, colleagues who are the most responsible for this contribution to Croatian defenders are no longer among us today. I think colleague Pavlek... It deserves to be mentioned also this time because this decision today is the result as far as I know the most and its advocate to establish the Croatian Defence Fund and to open a legal framework so that Croatian defenders can, apart from the declarative rights that they have so far, perhaps have some concrete material rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, I think this Croatian Parliament as a legislative body should at least be me perceiving the Croatian Parliament, a body in which law enforcement will be taken into account, respecting the law. However, both this decision and the decision to privatise HT is not the case. Unfortunately, it is not the case, and since there are different opinions and doubts about my claim I hope to have opportunities before the judicial authorities in this country to obtain confirmation of that thinking and that is the thinking of the Croatian Party of Law Club. In this particular case, it is the following. The INA Privatisation Act states in Article 7. "To a fund which will be transferred to the shares referred to in Article 4(1) of this Act with all the relevant rights including the due dividend." This is what the INA Privatisation Act says and the government also quotes it in its decision but adds "from the day of the transfer of these shares to the Croatian Defence Fund". What the government's adding, that means that the dividends until the day of the transfer belong, we're wondering who, by the logic of the matter, are state budget. Or Article 5. The Privatisation Act states: "The income of the state budget of dividend is not realised by the shares that will be transferred without compensation within the meaning of Article 4(1) of this Act.". Who they will be, not who they are, but who they will be. I don't think there should be some great lawyer, so to determine who's right about it, but what I'm more concerned about is the political dimension and the political dimension is that in both decisions and in HT shares, and in shares now INA, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to achieve its promise of restoring dignity to Croatian defenders and trying to make decisions for the benefit of Croatian defenders, in these two cases it does everything, and in this way interpreting the law in order to make money, it is reportedly about 150 million kuna in HT. Here these funds are certainly much smaller, we know that the situation in INI is not as it is in HT, there may not be dividends, but we are talking about the principle of law enforcement. If there are no dividends, let them be gone, if they are not there, they belong to the Croatian Defence Fund and from the day the Fund was established, in the least and legally from the day the two laws were passed. Because then the question is also asked politically, morally, in principle, the ethical question, why did the government wait 16 months to make this decision. And if the law says right after the Fund is set up, immediately, says the law after the Fund is established, shares will be transferred. We've been waiting 16 months and then we're making a decision that says, we've made a dividend since the day of the transfer. So we intended to keep the shares in the Croatian state portfolio for 16 months in order to keep any revenue from the shares for the state budget and not give it to the Croatian defenders. This is not in line with the principle of concern and the well-being of Croatian defenders, and it is in complete contrast with the political announcements, which should also damage Croatian defenders through the Croatian Defence Fund. It's about significant assets, what is the value of INE shares, it's now discriminatory and we'll see what it's all about, this decision that says, of course I welcome the decision on the transfer of shares, which I'm sure none of the MPs will dispute that decision that comes from the law but shows the government's intention to actually carry out its obligations and to allow the defenders to become the owners of the shares and everything that belongs here. However, a decision that says from the date of the transfer that dividends do not belong only from the date of the transfer of the Croatian Defence Fund to me in no way can my colleagues accept. Because it's not to be rude, it's to abuse the law, it's to disobey the law, it's to break the law, that's all it shouldn't be in this House, and especially it shouldn't be from a ministry that's partly called the Croatian Defence Ministry. Because obviously when it comes to money, then there are some other criteria, some other criteria. I publicly ask the question where did the money, the money that belongs to the Croatian defenders, based on the dividend from HT shares, where did that money physically end up in what account? We can never get a concrete answer. Although the government does not deny that the law on the privatisation of HT says dividends belong to Croatian defenders, i.e. I can't be income from the state budget, so where are they then, and in this case says the law isn't revenue from the state budget. Where will the dividends end if, in this form, we accept a decision, where the dividend money will end if not in the state budget. Of course we don't use hard words. It is not right and it is not fair and it is not fair from the government that the dividend funds simply seek a way, either by postponing the decision, whether by interpreting the law in a radical manner, to seek a way to keep it in the state budget without forwarding it to the Croatian Defence Fund. It is simply unacceptable, even to me as an advocate, incomprehensible given the fact that we spend 4 billion kunas per year on enforcement of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and what is now, which is the problem, that these 100, 150, 200 million kunas have become so important that the government is willing by its decision to directly violate the applicable Croatian laws and this should not be said by too many lawyers to see it. I quote Article 5. The INA Privatisation Act, and Article 7. The INA privatisation law, which explicitly states that dividends and shares belong to the Croatian Defence Fund if we accept the decision in this form. Of course, this decision is in the form of acceptance or refusal, given that we are looking for consent, does not make a parliament decision and is a very unpleasant position for MPs in the vote because of course we must give consent in order to carry out a transfer at all and we do not have a way of doing business that enables this part of the decision to keep the dividends in the state budget, not to be given to Croatian defenders through the Croatian Defence Fund, simply this is not possible for our business rules and therefore I am sorry that the price has fallen to such an important decision because, of course, through the media they will be fragmented Croatian defenders have received shares, but again the story is repeated, the story from HT. I ask you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that I do not now list the articles by which you are required and you are obliged to allow me as an agent to banish the respect of the Rules of Procedure, to try to take what you can from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. as president of the Croatian Parliament to put the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament on the agenda and to decide on my proposal for credible interpretation regarding HT dividends. Then, of course, some other possibilities were opened. Unfortunately, I have to say from this place that as things stand right now, this is still gonna end up in some kind of court. I'm sorry, too, because I feel it's my duty, no matter what a man thought in private terms as the president of the Committee, and as a representative, it's my duty to call such a decision illegal, I now call it illegal and announce it of course until the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45385	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45386	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Jukic where he stated that the government has acted against the law and that it has actually kidnapped shares of Croatian defenders, i.e. The dividend and... It is true that the Government has given its interpretation which is credible and it is credible because it is related to the Law on Commercial Companies Article 167, which clearly states that the right to dividend is owned by any person who has shares from the day of transfer and from the day of the management of shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45387	Thank you. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45388	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I have reported that at the beginning of the debate on behalf of the clubs we might be able to clarify some of the things that the president of the HSP Club may not even know. I am sorry that the Croatian Party Club of Rights thinks that this decision by the Government has been made very clear, what the last Governments did not say and were not ready to do, therefore, nor to set up the Croatian Defence Fund, let alone transfer to this Fund anything, let alone 7% of HT shares and 7% of INA shares. I would like to remind you, i.e. that of the credible interpretation, of the credible interpretation of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the Republic coordination of the Associations of the People's War they sought, which sought the indication of this Committee on the same issue you are talking about, therefore, on the issue of dividends, made it clear that the right to dividend in addition to other rights on the basis of the ownership of the shares belongs to the holder of the shares after their acquisition and entry into the stock register, during the first division of the dividend that is carried out afterwards. In particular, it says in response to the request of the Republic coordination of associations, in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families only after the adoption of the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 17 February and 31 March 2005 on the transfer of 7% of HT shares, as their holders can exercise all the rights arising from those shares. For example, the right to participate in the decision-making process in the congregation of that society, in the work of its bodies and in the possible membership of the Supervisory Board for dividend rights. This is a credible interpretation of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. I assume that representatives in the Croatian Parliament must follow or respect and take into account the credible interpretation of their committee. There is no claim that this government decision is contrary to the government's announcements of care for Croatian defenders or to the right place of Croatian defenders and their problems. However, I think that in a series of moves we've made, and this is certainly one of those because I repeat this government, this government has passed on, made a decision on the transfer of 7% of HT shares and 7% of INA shares. This government cannot be, however, that decisions to transfer shares, decisions to put the Croatian Defence Fund on its feet, decisions to support the functioning of the Fund, finally the functioning of the Fund in any way offending the Croatian defender and his position in society. So I'd like you ladies and gentlemen to discuss the government's decision to transfer 7% of the INA shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45389	Thank you. Six rectifications of incorrect allegations. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45390	It is not very common but here happens the vice presidents... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... defends the text of the Decision on the Croatian Defence Fund and accuses the former government of being against the Fund... Please be nice, and at the same time this Fund was established by the Fund Act, which passed the Assembly's last meeting in the tenth month of 2003. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And in this respect not only is it founded we are asking this government why so far has the Privatisation Act of the INA and the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and how this law requires where dividends should belong from the establishment of the Fund, not from... The stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45391	Second correction by the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45392	It's incorrect that the former government didn't want to start this fund. According to the Government's proposal, the Parliament adopted the INA and HEP privatisation Act as special laws on the privatisation of these state-owned enterprises, which defined 7% of the shares without compensation to be transferred to the Fund, and based on the proposals made by the MPs at that time, this Fund is, with the consent of the Government or the law and voted here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45393	Third correction, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45394	Unfortunately, he would correct the inaccuracies of Madam Prime Minister. So she claimed that the Legislative Committee had decided on credible interpretation. Unfortunately, Madam President, and you're probably not in the House, so you don't know what happened. You might have read that in the paper. It is a sad fact that the Committee on Legislatives did not hold a session or give a credible interpretation at the request of an authorised representative of the Government of Jukic, who was delivered on 4 July, and gave an interpretation on the basis of the request of an unauthorized applicant of some kind of colloquial interpretation through the paper and through an informal item of the agenda at the Committee meeting. This only shows how the Committee on Law works in this Croatian Parliament and unfortunately so.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45395	The fourth correction by the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45396	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from the esteemed vice president. She is obviously misinformed about the session of the Legislative Committee. In accordance with Article 171 of the basic Regulation, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament may be submitted by an authorised legislator. And that's what I said at the board meeting... Wait a minute, Mr. Yukic, I'm talking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the associations could not stand what I said on the Committee on Reliable Interpretation. I was asked then to sit down to discuss the request of Mr. Vlad Jukic, who submitted on July 1st. And who you, Mr. Shakespeare, properly forwarded to the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and he falsely told the Committee that he didn't get it. You are 4th, so you received Mr. Jukic's request on 1 July of this year for a credible interpretation of this Article 3., paragraph 2. The law on HT and you forwarded it to the Legislative Committee on 4 July, and the chairman of the Committee claimed falsely that you did not forward it. And I asked then for a session of the Committee because we can't give neither the Parliament nor the Committee credible interpretations. All we can give is who's authorized to bear it? One who is authorized to submit and propose laws is authorized. It means MPs and the government. So you have the wrong information. Unfortunately, the chairman of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45397	The Fifth Amendment. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45398	What has already been corrected by colleagues Arlovic and colleagues Zgrebec, and in the wake of the already established practices when the minister calls for something she did not do, then she falsely accuses the former government of not doing something exactly what she did. So the former government has right now, the former government has proposed a previous assembly of parliaments has made a decision and so is the Fund established. But here again the classic question of non-functioning and non-implementation is raised and here this time at the expense of the defenders. Remember how many times you have respected the former authority, or respect, that it does not care about dignity. Let's not play with dignity. Every person has dignity independent of any authority. Neither did we take it from them, nor did you bring it back to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45399	And the sixth correction, the esteemed representative, Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45400	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I want to correct the incorrect assumption. The Deputy Prime Minister of the INA Privatisation Act and the Law establishing the Croatian Defence Fund have been ignored and they have transferred the INA shares to Croatian defenders. The government's decision does not have any constructive element in terms of ownership or can be acquired by the government's decision because the law solved it by two, two ways. Leg specialisization of the INA and the second is the founding of the Fund. So we must respect what the government, uh, the Parliament has decided. So we can't discuss it. The Parliament has decided through two laws and the government has to implement it. And all she had to do before, so there'd be no dispute since the dividends belonged to the defenders and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45401	IDS agent club. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45402	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Well, I'll repeat what I've said many times about this pay phone. I would give everything to the people of the Homeland War, to others who were at war clearly I would take care of them, but I would not go out with any special rights. When I say that I would take care of them, then I think first of all of the jobs and clearly in the new 45% pension that Miss Kosor pushed through the past law from the average salary. However, I would also like to say that the transfer of shares of INA or HT to Croatian defenders whatever someone in this assembly thought was a mistake. That, I know it's not popular to say. But I'm going to repeat the transfer of INA and HT shares in the way we do it is a mistake. What happened to us at coupon privatisation will happen to us. Those shares will eventually come into the possession of Count Eltz, Cacic or someone third from the PIF or today holding company. So, we're going to encourage the additional decomposition of society, meaning transfer of property to some thirds, and the defenders in 4 or 5 years, as well as in the case of coupon privatisation, are going to say again that they've been cheated, that they've been stolen, or that they've been played. However, this is about the most valuable Croatian resources. This is about, clearly, first of all, the shares of the INA, before that we passed the law on shares of HT. And my advice is, what to say now, after this passes that those shares are not sold, but who will be able to prevent when, say, those who will take over these new control packages of INA or HT simply submit public offers to take over the company. Finally, profits can always be clearly brought into development, but they will certainly be for a long time and should therefore be told to our defenders that the shares do not sell. But who will eventually stop it? What should you or what should gentlemen actually do? I repeat again, it's 7% INA, it's 7% HT, it's cca 300 million dollars, maybe 300 million euros. A moment ago, the secretary of defense, Mrs. Kosor, said that those 7% or these 7% of HT are a billion kunas. This was supposed to be gentlemen, that 300 million dollars or 300 million euros invested in the war-inflicted areas, in Vukovar, in the vicinity of Sibenik, in the vicinity of Sisak, in the vicinity of Karlovac, in the vicinity of Zadar, in the vicinity of Slavonski Brod, in Lika, etc. So 15 localities were to be determined in each of them, for example. 20 million dollars or euros or 150 million kuna. You would get prepared zones that could become or that could become the basis for the development of these areas. We could prepare thousands and thousands of acres of land for some entrepreneurship, tens of thousands of square meters of covered work space, etc. So, we could keep people in the aforementioned areas that were killed in the war, and this is how we are going to drive these people from these places to Zagreb. We could finally withdraw capital from Zagreb to those places. This way, you know what we're going to do, we're going to sell those stocks clearly, we're going to spend the money on the current account, maybe for which beer and development in this country will be nothing. Keeping in mind, however, that parallel with this goes the repayment of debt to pensioners. 7 billion kunas should be secured from the return of public property, and the return of nationalised and confiscated assets to Austrians, Italians, Germans, Jews, as I know, Slovenians etc. Once again, it will only be possible to sell state property. You should bear in mind the fact that 4 to 5 billion kunas should be collected annually in the Croatian budget, also by selling public property, plus this 7% of INA and HT, and it is time to really open the debate on how to manage this remaining national property and to invest in the resources of the remaining state property estimated at around 30 to 50 billion kuna. Clearly, this law, more precisely a decision, is of a technical nature. We can now depolmise with this dividend. In both cases, it's cca 50-ac, so a total of 100 million kuna. Clearly, 100 million kunas should be earned and directed into the budget. 100 million kunas are the budgets of our county, it's not small money. Clearly, let the spirit of the law be respected, whatever it may be, and let someone give it a credible interpretation. However, once again, in order for this debate not to go away just like that, I warn you what will eventually happen. I conclude, the disabled all, the rest of them care that, absolutely in every way possible, but we can primarily care through pensions and jobs. This way, we will settle our minuses in our current account, drink which beer and from the development of the Republic of Croatia will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45403	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45404	I would correct the incorrect quote of fellow Caine when he said she had awarded 7% of the shares, which is this decision, a mistake, and that those shares will end up in the hands of either Count Eltza or Cacic. Comrade Cain, there can be no mistake in what is respecting the law and what is the only material decision, something that Croatian defenders will specifically get from their Croatian state. It is a debt to Croatian defenders, and it is not a mistake. The fund is closed to those who manage the Fund is to do everything possible to ensure that when the Fund is opened after 3 years, there is no repeat of the case of coupon privatisation. But prejudge people who manage the Fund and prejudge that what happened with those shares is not good from this place from the Croatian Parliament. It's not a mistake. It's a debt to the Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45405	Thank you. And the second correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45406	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Cain, said that the transfer of shares is a major mistake of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. De facto it is not a government mistake, it is a decision of the Croatian Parliament. I mean, given the value of the shares being transferred, when it comes to HT, and especially when it comes to INI, he denied himself that these are valuable resources, Croatian resources, and the entire course of his debate is de facto, not just today, but otherwise, he went in the direction of speaking differently. So, de facto, always resist at all costs to oppose the government, or ministries that propose certain training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45407	I may not hear everything, but I always hear you very well, colleague Cain. Again it's throwing one that... What are we gonna say about that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] DC club, HSLS, LS, respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45408	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, our DC club, HSLS, LS welcomes this decision to take what has been said about defenders to start respecting it, to see something concrete, and that means one process of realising this program. I see, we also want to say that it is not good that this decision to transfer 7% of the shares of the INA and before 7% of the shares of HT to be covered with this suspicion, what Mr. Jukic said, which was today, what was the debate on our War Veterans Committee today. No matter what vote this issue is not resolved, there will be a lasting doubt that something was done that should not have been done, there will be doubts that the law has been broken here somewhere. I am not going to read Article 5 or Article 7 here clearly. I think that it should be clarified and answered, because this has already gone to the Croatian public, goes to the Croatian public, this will come, so through the public to the public, to the defenders themselves, and I'm afraid we'll just do ourselves a bear service. I think it is, however, if we have already made good use of our opportunities to the Croatian defenders so far, that we can get rid of this right now. To simply not force the old to the end, but to go clear it up, so if the law is broken somewhere, let's see why the law is broken, or if it's even broken. We don't know exactly what the Fund is, what that dividend is. If it goes into the state budget, why does it go into the state budget? Well, it's no problem, we could've made you a nice proposal to amend and supplement the law on we could've changed that. If there's one, there's a hole somewhere. Let's go shut her up. Whether it must be from this fund, the Croatian Defence Fund if we agree to do so, but I say it is not good because I think we should give an answer here in the Parliament and the Croatian public. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's already colleague Cain and others mentioned, unfortunately we have negative experiences, and once you get bit by a fine snake, then you're afraid of lizards. So we have negative experience in our privatisation. There's this one suspicion that it might happen again to a team of bagpers, a mixer who's going to make this fund, which, with one honest, noble intentional foundation, that it's going to run into that fund and that I'm afraid it's going to be worth everything that we're doing as a society, and that the real defenders aren't going to get what they actually belong to. So I'm wondering if the government has any program to protect this stock from the butchers and the bags that could mutilate such a noble idea, one noble attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45409	Thank you very much. SDP club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45410	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Ministers and Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. We still have about a year or two of time to finally talk about some topic related to Croatian defenders in a reasoned way. Unfortunately, neither is this decision being made thanks to the government's representatives. It is clear that this government wants to be seen as an exclusive protector of the rights of Croatian defenders that is legitimate, but as a representative of the SDP, I will not and will not agree. And how do these rights protect themselves? I won't be long. Most of the time, promises that are most often shown by loose taps. When we talk about the Croatian Defence Fund, I could almost fully agree with my colleagues from the Croatian party of rights's Club of Representatives. That's what we've been warning for almost a year, but the government tells us that we don't know the problem, that we're wrong, that we could have done all this before, we just don't know when and we should trust them at least. So that's what it was said, so do you doubt when I was in the law enforcement report adding up three or four digits that were in that report and I said that this math didn't agree, where 1+1 should be 2, but the government's view is that it's 3 and we can't even doubt it. We really doubt today, now I say it openly, in your good intentions. You can also make us guilty of this. All right, the former government and we are personally guilty of bringing together a consensus here in the previous assembly of the Parliament, the Law establishing the Croatian Defence Fund, I say by consensus. I would especially point out the role of today's finance minister, Shuker. He helped that. Also here, the government has proposed and defended the privatisation laws of both INA and HT. I don't remember when it was a dispute that was going to transfer this new fund. It is your right to say that HT dividends today in this decision that we welcome, which is not absolutely controversial, in the part of the transfer of shares to the INA fund, but it is controversial that it is forgotten about dividends in this 2004 and these 9 months of 2005. It would have to be, if we can't agree on the law already, and I'm sorry why the HSP Legislative Committee on the HSP proposal didn't discuss this issue, but as I read it, the associations agreed from the government's point of view, and I'm going to get to the associations, so it would be moral for the dividend to belong at least if not to vote these laws, and then from the moment the fund was formed. That's once again to say about 240 million kunas of HT dividends and an unknown amount of INA dividend value. But it's not just the government that's the fact that it doesn't comply with the passed laws. Because the laws were not passed by the former coalition government, it was not passed by the SDP, it was passed by the Croatian Parliament. I am also asking the question, which is the position of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund where the four representatives of the associations are sitting. Here we have a colleague representing the Parliament and the Parliament will say his own, but I am primarily interested in the views of the associations, because we will not be the mailboxes of Croatian defenders, and we will be, if necessary, for their dissatisfactions, for their proposals, because how the fund will do so depends to the greatest extent not only on the Government but on representatives of the associations on the board of directors. And I warn you, this will remain recorded. In order not to happen as with the creation of debt to Croatian pensioners created by one government, some other governments must repay that debt. Well, I'm afraid that's what's left of the Balkan mentality and with us, so we're going to shut up this debt when this government is in power, and then we're going to mention that debt and dividends when some other government might come, but you're not going to watch that movie. Of course, I have no doubt that a change of government will take place in two years, but then those who are now silent about these dividends, I hope they don't dare to question the new government and what about our debt. There is also another question that often Croatian defenders probably ask you, which is when the division of shares will follow. It's clear that people expect it to be almost immediately, but neither the Fund nor the Government have heard of when it will be. Just a note, the privatisation of INA and HT lasted for years. We still do not know what will be privatised from other public companies, whether Croatian forests will go or not, as things stand will not. What will happen to HEP, Croatia's insurance, etc. etc. Of course it'll take a few more years. If we know that there is another 3 years of inability to have shares, it would be responsible for the government to tell Croatian defenders when they will be able to freely dispose of the shares. And there, I assure you, there will be no politicization because that deadline will, I suppose, be realistic. But he'll be measured for years. It is clear that another fact should be made clear and loud, which is that by extending the number of users, and this is what we have, for example, a register numbering 487 thousand Croatian defenders, will at the same time lead to a reduction in the value of the shares shared by each Croatian defender who gets them. Because clearly, the higher the value of the share of that package the individual gets is going to be smaller. And to bring this debate to an end, I'd go back a little bit. Not too much. This Croatian Defence Fund is to avoid the fate of a previous 90-year defence-related prison fund that served as a self-serving service for individual tycoons. And clearly, the fund ended up in crime. We have to do everything we can to make sure this Fund doesn't do the same. But I warn, as this government interprets and enforces the laws, it will not end well. The SDP club clearly welcomes this transfer of shares, but it also proposes the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The decision to transfer 7% of the shares of the INA to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation, provided that in point 1. The decisions of the word: "transposition of these shares" are replaced by the words "founding the Fund". Or, to simplify, the Croatian Defence Fund would also be transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund, a dividend would also be transferred from the moment of the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45411	Thank you. We have 5 corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45412	Mr. President. Dear Representative Pancic has made the claim that this government, the government wants to be shown as the defender's protector, but most often with promises. The decision on the allocation of shares of HT, on the allocation of shares of INA to the Defence Fund, is not a promise. It's not a promise, it's not a promise, it's not a defense register, it's not a promise, it's not a new law. This government, contrary to your claim, has kept its promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45413	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. ... How? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't replace you. ... But then who is it? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I can't replace it, Nevenka and the Crown, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45414	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to correct the incorrect allegations of MP Pancic. That's exactly what Representative Culjak said. That the government protects the rights of defenders with promises, and indeed this proposal on the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund deny it. And the relationship between this government and the Croatian defenders is the best testimony that the minister does not have to go out the back door of the ministry as was a common case during the previous government with the then minister of defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45415	Third correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45416	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the incorrect allegations where counterpart Pancic claimed they were guilty of passing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. I'd say they're not guilty of passing that law, they're guilty of not implementing it, and they didn't pass a law that could be enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45417	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Tomljenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45418	The honourable representative said literally the following, quotes: "The government does not respect the elected laws." It's an absolutely incorrect quote, and especially incorrect in terms of this decision that we're talking about. Because this decision on the transfer of 7% of INA shares says otherwise. That the Government respects this Act in a way that enables it to be implemented and that the application of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Registration of Rights in the Register of the Trade Court will allow for the registration of shares and the exercise of rights on those shares. Which not only implies the right to dividend but also all other rights attributable to the Company Act. If the government hadn't acted differently, it would have remained only a right in this law. A right that could not be realised in concrete terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45419	And respected representative Vlado Jelkovac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45420	A fellow Pancic said, speaking of this government, I quote: "The real ones are protected by promises that are most often shown by empty footings." This is indeed a guilty claim because this government has concrete measures, which are confirmed by the defenders themselves and the defense associations themselves, proves the exact opposite. She suggested, this Parliament passed the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which brought a series of benefits to Croatian defenders. And this decision that we are discussing today, about the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families without compensation, is proof of what I claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45421	Thank you. Vice-President, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45422	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Of course I wouldn't answer, and I wouldn't take up valuable time, but I have to, since I represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia here, and I must, of course, react to statements that all this government has done in the care of the defenders, in repairing what has been done badly when the whole job is called the push-ups. I, of course, want to really throw away such allegations very vigorously because I'm going to say a few examples. I can't accept that I'm going to let myself be called debt returns back in '97 last year. So it's $149 million in debt returns and the 2001 debt returns. It's not a loose tap, ladies and gentlemen. We have begun to implement the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, according to which Croatian defenders can exercise the right to a minimum, or protected pension. So 45% of the average salary. If it's an empty tap, then I don't know what happened in the previous term when defense rights are down to 40%. I repeat this once again without any single intention to politicise this issue again, without any intention of me polluting with any of the MPs or MPs from any party, especially from the SDP. But I would like to remind you, for example, that when it comes to housing construction, that it was you 30 million funds intended to build the dwellings of the victims of Croatian Military invalids that were converted into funds for the construction of POS apartments, so instead of building those funds to build apartments as decided in the budget, as decided by the Croatian Parliament, these funds were re-designed for something else. Or why no cars were purchased for the 100% disabled of Group 1 in 2003, but it was an obligation that welcomed this government or why not all cases of housing construction for the 100% disabled of the 1st group were not solved. I think that these examples could be listed a lot more, but when it comes to the transfer of 7% of the shares of the INA or 7% of the shares of HT is not good, ladies and gentlemen, that one good decision that needs to be confirmed today by the Parliament, we try to black out what reasons, by listing which has nothing to do with this decision, of course, mere and empty politicisation, because then I also ask on behalf of the Government the question that we in the Government have asked ourselves several times when we received these different dividend requirements why the former government did not transfer it, why the former government did not reserve the dividend if it is so busy for the rights of Croatian defenders when it comes to speak of the Croatian Defence Fund and of course the transfer of dividends. So I ask you ladies and gentlemen to accept this proposal to transfer 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45423	Thank you. A series of corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45424	Here's the man who always came out the front door without a bodyguard, so there's no confusion. It is my pleasure to correct the incorrect allegations of Mrs Kosor that the only problem is that there are so many that it is difficult to correct everything. It's just that Mrs. Kosor, what you've given us the problem is that the decision is illegal, and secondly you're saying that you've begun to exercise the rights of the new law, I asked the question yesterday why the children of Croatian wartime disabled people aren't enrolled in student homes, you've denied me that it's a lie and in the end it's confirmed that the Ministry of Science really made a failure, here you have the "Evening List" I hope you get it in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45425	The second correction, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45426	Thank you. He says respected vice president and minister that she needed the former government, that it respects this government for why the former government failed to transfer shares and dividends. You should know that the fund was founded in 2004 under the Law, which was passed in 2003, but here is the real question but for many institutions it has not paid dividends and what you have done for 16 months. So it's not just a matter of formalities, where is, where is the dividend money, or where is the dividend, 16 months, and you're going to have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45427	And the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45428	The last government was not even required to book a dividend for the Defence Fund because it did not pay dividends, the dividend was held in INA, only in 2004 to cover the deficit in the budget requested that it be paid dividends, not only from 2003 but also from earlier years, because the dividend had previously been held in INA for its development projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45429	Dear Representative Joseph Leko is correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45430	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Deputy Prime Minister has incorrectly accused the former government of not booking a dividend. The truth is the former government has reserved a dividend in HT and this government has spent and given to foreigners, thus damageing Croatian defenders twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45431	I don't know how a colleague can be properly and incorrectly accused. And the esteemed representative Slavko Linic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45432	Thank you, Mr. President. It's really sad to listen to a way like this where you're really telling serious lies. The HT dividend has never been withdrawn until the parliament's decision to confirm the parliament's decision to withdraw 2 billion kuna from HT for the 2004 budget. In INA 2.5 billion losses in 1999, three years were to cover losses, only this year will INA achieve a profit that should not be directed at covering losses, these are the truths that a vice-president of the government must also know about the Parliament's speaker of this kind of untruth really deserves to be corrected. It's not true, Madam Vice President, it's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45433	HDZ representative club respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45434	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes and stands behind this decision by the government, which transfers 7% of the shares to the Croatian Defence Fund because it is indeed Croatian defenders who deserve to participate in the companies that are now in privatisation and order for privatisation. In fact, the Croatian Democratic Community has clearly and unequivocally said what concerns and concerns will lead to the rights of Croatian defenders and how they will implement it. The results of such work and such treatment with Croatian defenders are clearly and unequivocally demonstrated at all times. No ambiguous messages, no offenses without ignoring them, and at least if you were ever mailboxes to receive all those negative messages sent to you by Croatian defenders, you would never have experienced what you were experiencing from them, and you were experiencing protests, insults, retaliated as you did with a little more interest. Today, Croatian defenders remember who was their mother and who was their stepmom, and today Croatian defenders clearly and unequivocally advise you not to let God bring you back to power again because you are certainly not needed by Croatian defenders. If you were willing as you passed the Law that could not have been implemented and had to experience its changes and additions, you would certainly have secured the dividend, reserved it in the budget, and not made a budget denture and handed it over to the new government of 7 billion kuna, so that when you respect your actions today, you can be convinced that you are totally wrong and if you were listened to by Croatian defenders you will get into mailboxes probably but only negative messages. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is a clear and unequivocal support for the government's decision, as well as an interpretation of the right to acquire a dividend stemming from shares and the management of shares. It is clear interpretation and unequivocal interpretation of the government that dividends belong from the moment of transfer of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund. I did not see as a member of the fund that the fund was established during the former government, I did not see that the law was decided and was in favour of Croatian defenders, but I experienced on a board when a man from the Ministry of Finance who worked and for your authorities clearly and unequivocally claims that in 2002 and 2003 dividend was paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It means that you've paid off before, only today is a public secret, and today you're pretending to be the great protectors of Croatian defenders. Here is a man by name and last name, I do not want to call for this speaker, he has worked at the Ministry of Finance at a meeting of the Governing Council that in 2002 and 2003 a dividend from HT shares was paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. That's true, gentlemen, and it's probably hard to face her. Furthermore, I would like to say that in its Article 167, the Commercial Society Act has clearly and unequivocally spoken of since there are ownership rights over dividends or when who starts to manage shares. The shares have been transferred to the management fund, and the fund management company has also been selected, which clearly and unequivocally presents and reports the fund in this way, you see, the large records of what happens, about every kuna, about the situation on the market, about everything that is necessary and relevant. As regards the fact that Croatian defenders are thinking and their position on these shares, I can say that four people in front of the defence population who were members of the trust board and I as a defender, but also as representative of the Assembly Committee on Veterans in that fund, we clearly accepted the government's interpretation of dividends and the trust board accepted it and I don't know what you're more concerned about. When the defence populations at their co-ordination accepted the government's interpretation, when the Fund's board of directors made its decisions to accept the dividend payment and use the dividend from the moment the stock management took place, I don't know why you've had so much concern and concern and you've had enough time, 4 years to worry, worry instead of belittled, abolished rights, persecuted and shut down. It would be nice to finally look those defenders in the eye, it would be finally time for you to apologize for all the insults you have done to them, and it would be nice to have a better and more solid life for the Croatian people to whom you have damaged in this past time. I would like to give my support once again in front of the Club of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I would like to stress that Mr Jukic's report from the Committee of Croatian War Veterans is also incorrect, whether by mistake or intent, and it is stated that 5 votes were for and 3 abstentions which are not true and not true. Reuse it and disprove it or we'll ask for this report to be withdrawn and made, make it new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45435	Ladies and gentlemen, each debate is causing a number of corrections to incorrect allegations because the whole policy and conflict between the government and the current government are being brought into this debate. It breaks everything, the whole policy that is related to the defenders, breaks through this law and comes to one, through this decision, and comes to an uncompromising conflict, and you see when, in general, what I am constantly warning, my colleague Pancic opened "Pandora's Box" once with the the thesis that the government, the current government, the current government, has accused that one policy, which is itself, is a false promise and a policy of playing promise and footing. And that then logically caused reactions on the other hand, and that's why we have these series of corrections, which is why we have a general conflict between the opposition party and the party's position, because one conflict is being broken and a conflict is being generated between the current government's policy and the policy led by the previous government. I won't, and I can't, and I have the right from this place to value it, and I don't want to, but you see what it brings when it keeps coming back to yours, our government, when it comes back to that argument about what someone did, what who missed to do which government. This leads to one permanent conflict, a permanent correction that has no end. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45436	On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break, since the HDZ Club has accused us of being traitors, working against defenders, and what the club is, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I insist on a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45437	Thank you very much. I'll clearly give that break nicely. Wait a minute for me to sign up, SDP club, HSP, HDz, three clubs. And before you do, you should solve the question of correcting incorrect allegations or you'll... Okay, then we'll set up a club session, a session session session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 17 o'clock is now, will be. Then we'll have to move on today, I've been planning, as many club representatives asked us to do until half past six and go to the show, but we have Yalta here. We have Yalta here, the truth isn't a musical, it's a play, is it? Yalta as a symbol of division and here is reflected. So, break to 17 and 15. 17 and 15, and the Yalta we'll go watch next time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after the break, we will proceed with the session. Please Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45439	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We from the SDP Club are quite serious about who, why and why they need divisions in the Republic of Croatia again and on this issue. We would like to remind you that at a time when a respected representative of former Mrs. Turic proposed the first law on Croatian defenders that some of us in the SDP were actively working on the law. Today, the SDP and not only the SDP, and other representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are trying to prevent their role as the opposition, both as individual representatives and as parties. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our task is as positions of political, democratic, after all, we are paid to observe every proposal that comes from a position and especially a proposal from the Government and to make sure that it protects the Constitution and the law guaranteeing rights and freedoms, to ultimately ensure that it protects the national and national interests and interests of social categories that are prescribed by law or will be protected in particular. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we would like to remind, in particular, that we could somehow understand by undermining that it was not understood that it had not been understood at all or that in the heat that the facts were brought forth so that somehow the law was misread. But we would like to remind that the INA Privatisation Act, which was passed in 2002, established that 7% of the INA shares in the Croatian Defence Fund were transferred, that some legal rights had been laid down by the Law on Privatisation of Defence, that the Law on Privatisation of Telecommunications had been established before 2000, and in such a situation we would like to clearly and unequivocally say that the Croatian Parliament rather than the Government had transposed those shares. The government is now carrying out a technical transaction of the transfer of these shares and is a legal obligation voted by the Parliament but has done so out of the protection of the special interests it has declared to the national interests of the defence population, and in particular that part of the population made up of the children of fallen defenders, their parents, their spouses, who are victims, the wounded defenders of the Homeland War, and to try to protect those categories. You see, when the opposition party and its representative club both individually and collectively and representatives of other parties, not only the SDPs rightly warn and present above all suspicions and claims, we would say that it is an illegal proposal for a decision because part of the profits obtained from the titles of such shares is actually cut off for almost a year and a few days and we ask that it be returned to whoever it belongs to to to protect their special interests. Then it happens that we're being accused that we're insulting this population, that we've been stalking it, that we've been demeaning it, that we've closed it down and we're asking questions, respected colleagues and colleagues, so is it such a short memory that it can't reach a few months back? You know, the coalition government, as far as we can remember, didn't lock anyone up, didn't haunt anyone, and if they did, then the courts and the authorities did. But colleagues and colleagues, you better remember during which government did so and it seems. And in this context, we want to make it clear and loud. We are looking for nothing but to respect our position as the opposition in this House and to enable us, in accordance with the Constitution of democratic rights and democratic order, to carry out our duty, not only our right but our duty. We are obliged to observe the proposals that you refer to and, in particular, if they are not based on the Constitution and the law and the interests of those categories of citizens who are protected. And in this respect, if it were possible to ask the question of who is canceling and how does it stop defenders, it would certainly not be a question that would point to the former government's current opposition. Dear colleague, this should refer to the current government from the point of view of the proposal for this decision on the agenda. And the last thing I want to ask on behalf of our club is that I'm in charge of it. We ask whether this is the position of the ruling party's club and the ruling party's representative because it's spoken on behalf of the club, or is that an individual's position? If an individual’s attitude can be understood, he does not have to forgive himself. But it cannot be understood if the position of the ruling party and its club is spoken from this pay phone because it does not contribute to the achievement of tolerance in the work of parliament, but rather sows seeds that do not produce good fruit for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45440	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45441	Mr. President, it was an incorrect allegation and claim by colleagues Arlovic when he said that no one had been persecuted, disrespected and imprisoned by the last government. It's a good memory for me, and I remember the fake disabled as a general... Marinovic and Dark Bestek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth is, they're not fake cripples. They're real people with disabilities and you've been stalking them and belittled them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45442	Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45443	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll brief you on why we were looking for a break at the HSP Club. The first thing that matters is what we have to say, we have discussed today the motion for a resolution on the strategic provisions of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and this has been a consensus achieved. One of the main gains of the legal European Union where we go is respecting the law. And now we have the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the test of respect for the law. This is specifically about the INA Privatisation Act. We know the legal situation, I'll talk about it later. So let’s not just make a declaration or resolute determination, stick to it in action, and it will be quite different. The other two things we've been looking for for this break is the first thing we have to solve here is one question. The Deputy Prime Minister said she had authentic interpretation or credible interpretation of the Legislative Committee. I am now asking a question on behalf of the Croatian Party Club. Do you really have a credible board interpretation? Because he couldn't give it away, because the promoter can be in line with Article 171. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, meaning the proposer who seeks credible interpretation, can only be one who can propose the law. The law can be proposed by the government and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. If you have it under that name and not under your opinion then I ask on behalf of the Club a session of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to consider it because it is a violation of the rules of procedure because the chair of the Board cannot give authentic interpretation or credible interpretation when we did not even discuss it in that form at the Committee's session and then it is a dangerous question. Then it's abuse of authority if that's the case. I don't think so, but I'm looking for an exact explanation. And another thing that we need to agree on is just about this part, on the proposal for this resolution and on the legal gains of the European Union whether we will respect our Rules of Procedure in this Croatian Parliament. Mr Vlado Jukic, representative of the Croatian party of law on behalf of the HSP Club and personally submitted his request on 1 July of this year for a credible interpretation of Article 3(2). The law on privatisation of Croatian telecommunications. At the session of the Committee on Legislatives, when I asked the president of the Committee where it is, why it is not discussed, he... he replied that the President of the Parliament had not sent it to him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afterwards, we found that the President of the Parliament normally followed the Rules of Procedure and sent it on July 4th. Therefore, we cannot lie to each other and be held accountable to the President of the Parliament. It's a very dangerous situation, they were present members of the Committee who heard me ask and what the president of the Committee said. He said the President of the Parliament didn't send it to him. We claimed it was done on July 4th. Why doesn't the Legislative Committee stick to it? Why doesn't he stick to the Rules of Procedure? And the third thing in the end, which is important, why the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, in particular us from the Croatian Party of Rights Club, Mr Jukic has repeatedly requested this we cannot get the government's decision to transfer 7% of shares of Croatian communications? Why? Why can't we win when the MPs have a right? Why is that hiding? I suppose it is up to the Rules of Procedure to meet the demands of the MPs. Thank you very much and please... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45444	Thank you very much. HDZ Club. Club President, Honorable Vice President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45445	Mr. President, Mr. Arolovic has asked who needs division on this issue in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public at all, and I am asking that question who needs these divisions? Why does he need them? Is it necessary for some to modulate the better past and try not to recall some... from the past? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all understandable, but no one here can in any way try to direct or try to forget something that we all know well together. Mr Pancic here started attacks on the government and HDZ, according to his traditional custom, to build perhaps his better past, although some think he was generally loved in the defence population, yet the election results after his election in the ministry showed what the mood of the defence population was like. And with no attacks on the government or HDZ can fix it. These are facts from a few years ago. And I'm also asking if Mr Pancic's attitudes are SDP's? If they did, then our answers and our discussions would be different than if they weren't. Every action triggers a reaction, each attack triggers a counter attack, and then measures are lost. Then you lose weight. And when, in one's opinion, a measure is lost on the other side, then a question arises. If someone from the SDP club had come forward after Mr Pancic's debate and put it all down to one normal level of debate, it would probably not have been Mr Djakic's reaction or others. But we don't want to go back too much, we want to solve problems. If the law was passed in 10 months of 2003, he wants to implement himself. It could have been brought in in 2000 and 2001, so it was carried out by that government and all of this worked out that it had to be solved. No, it was a month before the election. So why? Well, I guess we know why! And so please, we don't want to go back, we want to solve problems like we do with pensioners and other problems, we're dealing with these problems, we're not going smoothly, we're having problems but we're solving them. So we will continue to solve other problems as well as the population of defenders and victims of war and the like. And in that sense, I ask all the clubs, all the MPs, that when they start some discussion of taking care that she's in her own way if she's tough and she's not moderate, it's opposite-proportional with persuasion, that's one and the other, causing others' reactions. So I think we should start solving the problem, not every little bit of going back and repeating something that's already a little past, and that is a little bit or should be forgotten. So I ask the same question, did Mr Pancic speak SDP's views and according to that answer will be our answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45446	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Josip Pancic. The edge of Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45447	I would ask Mr. Bebić not to take care of my past, as I don't even take care of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45448	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45449	And you could. And to make a joke, maybe it's better if it's at the Yalta show, yalta, which would just be like the performance of Nikola Shubić-Zrinski. So I'm not offensive either, but when you honor my grades here, then I'd ask you to also warn government officials who keep telling the truth and they're causing a reaction. Let's say, here's the truth, when I was talking about the delusions of children of Croatian war wars, HRVIA cannot be enrolled in November homes. Yesterday from your ministry it was said that it was a lie, however, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports only sent a message to all Croatian students to follow the law and give priority to the children of the disabled defenders, which was confirmed by the ministry spokesman. As the competitions have passed long ago and the results have already been published, the student centres have been in trouble, etc., etc. And now you say I'm cheating?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45450	My colleagues and colleagues, on certain topics such as this topic, there is a permanent political confrontation between the ruling coalition and the government and the opposition, and this is being broken and generated continuously. We have launched today a debate on granting consent to this decision on the transfer of shares. The opposition objected that the transfer of shares should have included the transfer of dividends. It was a political, legal dispute that was being debated, but the moment the debate went off the charts, it also caused the protures. It would have been, if the reverse ratio of power, that would have also happened if we had continued with this practice. That every issue is heavily politicised and that they are pulsing general charges for the former government's policy, the current government And the parties, too, is the same thing as the parties. [[Intruder: And the entire party.]] It also causes another party to counter-reaction so that it is constantly simple, simply fractured. We can never get to the green branch if they continue that way...... Class, Slavko, please, if this is how the debate continues. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm pleading and asking all the representatives of all parties not to go on general charges, general evaluations and evaluations. This is true for all because the moment you go into general qualifications, the value courts of one policy, one government, one party that leads to bursting, and then clearly there is, someone will have more measures, someone will have fewer measures but it can no longer be stopped. I therefore plead to continue this debate in a democratic, tolerated, possibly and should be harsh, harsh discussion and confrontation. This is also clearly about political inexperiences, but let's keep that border clear that we don't go into general or personal investigations and accusations. Otherwise, we will constantly spin around in this chain of circles, so there will be a general clash that will be seen in a series of corrections of incorrect allegations, in political qualifications that grow up then and into meals, which grow into difficult words and qualifications from all sides, and we are putting ourselves in one situation that and as the most representative body, we violate our overall position and reputation in the Croatian public as well. Do, MP Djakic had 5 corrections to incorrect allegations from SDP's Club of Representatives. Do these MPs want to consume their rights? Okay. First respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Thank you. The edge of Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45451	Here's the democratic tone. Gentlemen on the left as it is and for us on the right, we are not political enemies. We're political opponents. And maybe some lessons need to be learned from these riots. I'd like one lesson to remain remembered. Gentlemen, you do not represent all Croatian defenders. If there is nothing else you represent the Croatian defenders, members and supporters of the SDP and there are few of them, and therefore I would like the future discussions to go in that tone. No one here can generally speak for all Croatian defenders and know what they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45452	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45453	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45454	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45455	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the HT dividends have been paid off. From all documents and even decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the adoption of the 2004 budget, the dividends of HT have not been paid. I want to make it very clear, Mr. Djakic, only because you have no excuse for your decision. For your decision to give up that dividend in favour of the Fund. She hasn't been paid. And Mr. Shucker can also confirm that. This can also confirm the minutes of the Croatian Parliament and documents if you look at them since you had a budget for 2004. It was only paid after this House's decision by accepting the 2004 final account.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45456	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45457	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Instead of controversy, I want to point out for the ones I represent here. So I am not here at my will, but at the obligation to represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I accept all insults in this regard. I accept all insults in that regard. I am here a representative of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what do I want to make right? It is incorrect to refer to the Law on Commercial Society when it comes to the decision, on the transfer of dividends to the Croatian Defence Fund. Why? The INA privatisation law is a special law on a special case and it's settled. So as the lawyers "Leg Specialis" say for privatising INA, and this "leg specialis" therefore special law transfers 7% of shares to the INA Defence Fund. And one more thing. Article 5 states: "The dividend made on the basis of shares owned by the Republic of Croatia belongs to the state budget," and Article 2: "It is not the income of the state budget of the dividend made by the shares given to Croatian defenders. Article 7 also states that, to be transferred and a dividend has arrived. So there's nothing to interpret. The dividend is explicitly stated in the law, and I repeat it for those I represent here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45458	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think these are unproductive bickerings between the former, current government, so I'd say all of those former governments because this process and this problem didn't start yesterday or will end now. I will remind him of 1991 by failing to privatise companies when numerous defenders, discount workers bought those shares and lost them. The second round was awarded to the victims of the Homeland War and political prisoners who actually received only 10.15% of the nomination for those shares and we know how it ended. This circle called the privatisation of INA and HT under a special law can be called the third round. How's he gonna end up? Probably bad because we can't even make a political deal on how to carry it out? That's why I suggest that we don't interpret laws this intensely because we interpret them to the harm of the defender. It's particularly interesting that the association of defenders who manage the Fund are not interested in those shares, so they agree with this kind of, I would say, misreading the law. That's why I suggest we act very simply. This decision by the Government to withdraw from the procedure, to amend the INA Privatisation Act in such a way that it will be unequivocally unequivocal that the dividend on the shares belongs to the defenders from the moment the Fund was established. We can do this instead of our committees and the judiciary defining how it and when and for what time the dividend will be paid? This is very simple if we all think that there is a right that we wanted to achieve for the defenders right through the privatisation of INA. I repeat again. We propose before the HSS that we withdraw this decision from the procedure, to reach a consensus on the amendments to the INA Privatisation Act and to unequivocally tell dividends to the defenders from the moment the Fund was established.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45460	Thank you very much. We've got five more MPs. I'd like to beg if you can have a brief discussion. Everyone has a clear moment, but in order to be able, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45461	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let's go back to the scale, to the legal regulations and determine the exact and factual legal situation. The legal situation is exactly the following. Namely, by the INA Privatisation Act, Article 7, we will now read it because the Government gave a false copy or purposely a false copy of Article 7. It reads: "The Croatian Assembly of Special Law will set up a fund to transfer the shares referred to in Article 4(1) of this Law", which is these 7% for defenders, "with all the rights that belong to it including the dividend.". And that means the law passed on 28th, published in "The People's News" on 28 March 2002. The then government responds in its decision of 18 April 2002, which it says, so the former government will transfer those 7% of shares as soon as the Croatian Defence Fund is established. In its argument, the government does not now quote Article 7 but says, Article 7 of the same law is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament will set up a special law fund to transfer the shares in question with all the relevant rights, including the due dividend, but they are now placing a part that is not in the law. He says: "From the day of the transfer of these shares to the Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families.", there is no law in this section in Article 7. So, the thing is legally clear when the Fund was founded, and the Fund was founded in the 10th month of 2003. It was supposed to be transferred or that government that was then technically because it was doing these jobs, but not now, but it was supposed to be established as soon as the Fund was established. This is the same situation with 7% of the shares related to Croatian telecommunications. Facts, we can speak one, the other, the third or the fourth. But why has it been waiting so long, why has Article 7 not been respected? The INA privatisation law because the Fund was established, why is it not under what, why did the law not comply with the shares of Croatian telecommunications? The matter is undeniable and precise. The former government could've done it, she should've done it like that technical government, she didn't do it. Okay. She didn't do it, maybe she thought it was a technical government that she shouldn't do it, that she wouldn't deal with the team because it was the election. This government should have done it a long time ago. But now let's move on to what the government is. The government then said in its same letter from May 5th 2004, that those shares, 7% of the shares, would be transferred to the Defence Fund when the Fund was amended. The law was amended in 2004. She didn't do it again. So it's disrespect. The government does not respect its own decision. So, obviously, and it's an indisputable fact, we return things as prescribed by the law, and one and the other laws have made it clear: "From the founding of the fund." So, since October 2003. 7% of the shares, both INAs and 7% of the shares with all those dividends were to be entered into the Fund. Let's not mention the Company Act now. Lex specialis is a lex specialis and we can't talk about lex specialis once. We know what a lex specialis is, we who are lawyers, and we can't call for the help of the Company Act. If we want to enter and respect the legal gains of the European Union, we now have a chance. Therefore, we act by law, return this decision, return that decision regarding this part of the HT, if yet, which we have not seen and done legally. There's nothing else we're asking of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45462	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry there's no minister here, but despite the time being, I hope we're hearing from each other enough so I can keep talking. It almost became a rule when topics or sensitive topics are this important that we face the spear hard and that a severe insult begins. Again, here again today, I find myself unnecessary, and by us from the SDP club, heavy qualifications have been used that I personally do not know the end of. When I passed the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, respected colleagues and colleagues, I said that I was under the impression that we were not fighting in the same army, that we were not on the same side. I don't think so. I don't know who was on which side. You see, gentlemen... I'm talking about the Homeland War. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was talking about the rights of Croatian defenders, and then you who only hear what your ear hears and interpret yourself, and you take it as your right to be the protectors of Croatian defenders. I'm asking you as a volunteer of the Homeland War and as an officer why they're not protecting you. Don't do this, don't do a lot of the population in the ranks of Croatian defenders who belong to the members of the SDP, or are our sympathisers, and not just members of the SDP, there are other colleagues from other clubs who have taken the debate today, of course. I will not repeat what Honorable counterpart Djakic said, I believe that this is not the way, and it is not good for us to treat each other and treat each other this way. And I fully support at least that part of your thinking and exposure. I will only mention, as far as I know, that there were five ministers in the past government from the ranks of Croatian defenders, those who actively participated in the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia. What did we split about? Whether the dividend should be applied from the moment the Fund was formed or how the Government made the decision. We think the dividend must be from the moment the Fund was formed. And therefore, to return to the essence of things, certainly we from the SDP Club and I personally welcome the decision to transfer 7% of INA shares to the Croatian Defence Fund. I don't want to offend the current government's merits of operating the law and everything she's done so far. But it's not good when the government doesn't respect the law, or it doesn't respect the laws. In our opinion, this decision we're discussing today is more than evident. We ask that the government not make amends of the law, does not make changes to the law, but rather asks that the law be applied consistently. And I don't think there's a fight about it, or maybe I'm wrong. It's a simple principle here. We know that in INI it is not realistic to expect that there will be a dividend this year, i.e. it will be held in the core capital, and then we ask ourselves what is the point or what is the meaning of such a decision when INA is involved in the transfer of shares of INA. The conclusion in itself is only consistency in the wrong principle, to cover shares of Croatian telecoms that were transferred last year, and the government has kept dividends of course for other needs. I appeal to all of us, when Croatian defenders are in the piracy and rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families to address them or ourselves with greater dignity. Let us not self-absorbedly protect dignity or protect defenders, as we often do here, both from the pay phone and from the place you are given to hear, but also do everything we can to ensure that those who, by virtue of the law here voted in the Croatian Parliament, have the right to do so in fact and to allow them to consume it. Here they are at stake in the fund, who knows that everything and what will happen with the fund and, of course, the amount of the stake, the shares is difficult to talk about, about the amount of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund depends whether the dividend will be an integral part of the fund or not. So let me finish. There is no need to modulate the past, let us do everything possible to protect the future in a very effective way by applying the laws and improving the laws in their favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45464	Thank you very much. And finally, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45465	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to welcome you both to the Vice President and the Minister, but unfortunately she is not here when it comes to discussing important matters, she has left this debate. I hope it may be justifiable reasons, because Mrs Kosor, the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, rightly pointed out when she was a representative, that there were no proposings, that there were no ministers, although he was always some kind of deputy minister. Well, we don't have deputies anymore, so I guess the secretaries aren't in those responsibilities either. Maybe it's all Yalta's fault, about Yalta, Yalta, I'd say, "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, You see, that government was a traitor government, you today, Mr. Djakic, our very good colleague, you called us SDP stalkers, defense prisoners, that we had shut down and persecuted the defenders. Mrs. Kosor gave the number of mobile phones to communicate easier communication with the defenders when performing her mandate. Now not only is there no more cell phone but there is no minister when it comes to discussing it, but you and this government and you all need to be recognized. You who called this same government a traitor, because she cooperated, and she felt that it was our obligation to The Hague, you are no longer asking that question, and you should be congratulated on that and not be ashamed of it. So it's not something that's maybe for outdoor use, so home isn't very good-looking. You can be proud of it because it is Croatia's obligation. But you see it still remains, when precisely in the exercise of those rights that you yourself consider simple, by declaring yourself simply to the guardians of all defenders, the truth is that you have representatives in your own ranks of associations, but the defenders are not just associations, or defenders are not just presidents of their associations. We march individually on the ground as Parliamentarians can say that is not what it was when we were in power, it should be acknowledged, but now that this power, we have been visited by mass defenders disappointed and played. And we now don't argue about whether it's true or not, let's concentrate on this decision and we won't talk anymore when we ask this question about these things that you insist on not knowing why, disqualify the entire SDP club, here we need to talk about protecting dignity that I've already said, it was one thing, otherwise many politicians know how to play with the dignity of different groups, so it's going to be about their heads. I'm not going to say something here that's very devastating and defeating statistics very sad, because it's hard to speak or collect points on it, God forbid. But we need to talk about what? We are here to protect and see how decisions are implemented under the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. How do those who are representatives of both the Government and the Parliament and defense associations in that fund work? How do you protect the trust and property of those weakest defenders, the greatest victims of these victims, and what happened to that property? The law is very clear that dividends and shares should be transferred to the draft fund with all relevant rights. This seems to be the proposal by the Government to make a decision yesterday and to ask for consent from the Croatian Parliament. So this period of 16 months what about this property, what about that dividend? You see, when we proposed amendments to the Penal Code, then in this incrimination of economic crime, we predicted just the abuse of the trust of members, not bodies, of individual members of both the board of directors and supervisors. This is the basic feature of modern modern laws that the long-term capitalist world has to protect the believer. The defenders here are your creditors, and you say nothing is disputed, the board of directors says it's quite ok. even though the law says something else entirely. No one here can hide behind the management fund, the management fund is not an imaginary body. There sits a representative of the association, a representative of the Government and a representative of the Parliament, and each has a particular question as to how the vote took place, because tomorrow these same defenders who are damaged by who knows which way, and now that we are warning that it is still correct, it is human and wrong, but deafen themselves with insults and lunches on those who warn of that mistake is unacceptable. So to persist consciously in your mistake, so when the arguments and the facts disappear, then the labels go. What happens tomorrow when these defenders, their families, the children press charges under the law? Well, otherwise, it's been common to this government, and we can't support it in the House, which I call on you as a majority, to suspend the law by making decisions. So here's the recent government has reached a conclusion suspending the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, well that's a different topic, but this is on the same page. How is it possible for the government to act like this? So we're just that correction, the government can make a mistake, there's a lot of work and who's doing it and he's wrong, because while the government, when she's doing less, she's been doing less and she's wrong. So ours is here to correct, but this isn't technical stuff. This isn't some imaginary dignity you know we can all easily argue with, this is about someone's property. And that's why for the last time I'm warning you that if someone made a mistake here, they have to make it right on time. So we suggest here again, that this conclusion, this decision is made to correct, or consent to give. However, with the amendment of this decision, or the addition that it cannot in any case be from the transfer of these shares, from the transfer, but from the establishment of the Fund, as the law has said. Don't say tomorrow we didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45466	Thank you. I'm asking for a correction to an incorrect quote, dying. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45467	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'm going to correct the inaccuracies where it was established that I called the former government a traitor. That's just not true. I called it the persecutors and haters of Croatian defenders, which I will explain by the fact that a number of generals who were called false Croatian disabled experienced a satisfaction that in the administrative court they received credible documents saying that they were the real people with disabilities. And that the documentation they obtained and the medical commissions signed were credible. That's true, and otherwise they were all persecuted by you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-13-0.u45468	My colleagues and colleagues, we're back in the zone. Well, we need to get out of that zone once. Long dark night. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 with the State Budget Implementation Report 2005 for the first half of 2005. Decision on the transfer of 7% of INA shares, oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation. Giving consent. We have a proposal for a Decision on granting consent to a decision on the transfer of 7% of INA shares to the oil industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 October 2005 and we also have a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which reads, to give consent to a decision on the transfer of 7% of the shares of INA, the Oil Industry d.d. in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families without compensation, provided that in point 1. The decisions of the word "transmission of these shares" are replaced by the words "founding the fund". The difference would be that according to the proposal proposed by the Government of shares, dividends by defenders and members of their families have the right to dividends from the establishment only after the transfer of shares to the fund, and according to this proposal, the conclusion of the SDP club from the establishment of the fund. I'll put the government's motion to vote. Please engage. Please engage, and the conclusion will come to order. First comes the decision, giving consent to the decision. Please engage and please vote. What, the score? 75 for the decision and 15 abstentions.
