ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43196	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are dates in the history of peoples and states that have determined this history and that should be marked in a decent way. Here is the goal of economics and debates, but the Government proposes to mark 25 September as a mention in the Republic of Croatia on 25 September 1943 when the National Liberation Committee for Istria met in Pazin and when a decision was made and confirmed on the accession of Istria, Zadar, the island of Matica Croatia. In this way, the territory of the Republic of Croatia is surrounded in the west, and the borders of the Republic of Croatia are defined which no one can dispute, and this is one of the key dates for a newer Croatian history. After the end of the state legal ties with the Member States of the former Yugoslavia and the aggression that followed and which cost this country, our people, following the successful defence of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, followed the international recognition of the Croatian state. We thank everyone, especially those who have recognized us, once again and from this place, but we propose to mark the day of 15 January as mentioned, as a memorial when we were recognised by all 12 of the then Member States of the European Community and Austria, Poland, Hungary and Malta. I believe that on these topics we will really get the support of all MPs and I suggest that this law be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the second, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43198	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. This IDS initiative proposes to mark up to 17,000 victims of Istrians in World War II. This IDS initiative is driven in respect of those people who participated in the National Liberation Fight, who are responsible for the territorial corporation of Istria into the national Corps both Croatian and Slovenian people, because as Mr Palaric said, there are dates that write history. It is hard to believe or believe at this point that the People's Liberation War fighters will be returned to their acquired rights, as they say pay back to the pensioners, to those who are retired from 93 to 99. However, the Declaration of Anti-fascism recently adopted in this House must not remain just one reference act for the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism. It should, therefore, be tasked not only with respect, the decision of ZAVNOH or the National Liberation Committee for Istria but also with the fundamental values of NOB, and the territorial integration of Istria into the national territory of the Croatian and Slovenian people is certainly one of its greatest values. Istrian antifascism did not appear elsewhere in Europe nor in 39 when World War II began, nor in 41 when an attack against the Kingdom of Yugoslavia already appeared 20 years earlier and in its essence it was a pure expression of people, of a place to violence, to respond to injustice with civil and then with clear and armed resistance. In the modern history of Istria, pheasant decisions with a massive spontaneous popular uprising of September 43rd certainly have a central place. Understandably, in order to obtain international justification, international legitimacy should have supported them at peace conferences first in Paris in 47 and 54 in London, where they were one of the key arguments of territorial change, with the fact that Tito and the Partizan army had freed that space before that, and that he had then had the fourth army in Europe. This legal initiative of the IDS, with respect for generations that participated in the most difficult but also the most glorious moments of the new age of Istrian history, should mean to evaluate the National Liberation War because Istra gave 17 thousand lives during World War II, but also that in moments, I dare say, these tense Croatian-Slovenian relations are calling for political "establischment", primarily those in Ljubljana, to seek inspiration in not so long ago to overcome the Croatian-Slovenian dispute. I don't need to give, and that's what I'm saying, priority decisions of September 25th over those September 13th decisions or vice versa. Because it would deny one or the other, and it would also deny NOR's reach in Istria. It just can't be done. However, clearly, the question arises as to who we are that we may judge in the past. This can be discussed or judged by the only ones who participated in it, and the NOR fighters from Istria opted precisely for September 25th, based on which the County of Istria celebrates its day. The Croatian political public, which is primarily us, is obliged to pay off that generation, respecting the meaning of their work and therefore we propose on September 25th to the mentioned Republic of Croatia. Because of the war events, first of all here I mean the exodus from Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, in part of the former population of Istria, a reminder of that period can also cause different feelings, but nevertheless the paternity decisions were the will of the majority population and, above all, the reaction to the brutality of the fascist administration, and then they were supported by international conventions. In spirit means these conventions of the highest civilizational principles, and one of them is certainly anti-fascism, it is necessary to protect the rights of all minorities on whom even then the signatories of the care decisions of accounts were led. It should finally and clearly resolve the property dispute of 5 thousand 236 people who have received the so-called discharge from Yugoslav citizenship and build good neighbourly relations in Europe that must not be burdened by any border issues. I would like to read from one of the declares of the County of Istria a few moments, which is why they and the President of the Parliament of Mr. Seks asked Mr. Seks to include this point indirectly on the agenda. "The area of historical Istria, including the Slovenian coast and Krass, has always had an outstanding geographical and political significance because it touches the 3 largest ethnic groups of the peoples of Europe, Slaveni, Romani, Germani, and in various historical eras they cross their interests in these areas in the direction of expansion. Because of this, Croatians and Slovenians have had a very violent history under foreign authorities since their presence. 250 years of Byzantium, 700 years of Venice, 10 years of French authority, 108 years of Austro-Hungarian, 25 years of Italian fascism, 2 years of Nazi occupation, but have remained simply unruly all the time." By the fall of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, by signing the truce on November 3, 1918, you all know what happened to that London Memorandum. I won't speak too much in history, but let me simply, at this very moment, apostrophe or rather read the co-signatures of the guard decisions. They are Joaqim Rakovac, an Istrian heavy, a Croat, a promised folk. The first president of the province's National Liberation Committee for Istria to die before the end of the war in 1945, declared a folk hero. Vjekoslav Stranic, vice president of the People's Liberation Committee. Anton Cerovac Tonic, Petar Burić – lawyer, Srecko Štifanić – priest, Ivan Cervar – carpenter, Marija Kopitar – teacher, Josip Cetina – farmer, Drago Ivančić Toniša – builder, executed during the war. Guiseppe Budicima Pino, comes from a craftsman's family, Italian by nationality, barber. He is a representative of the Italians from Rovinj at the meeting of the Italian National Liberation Committee, arrested, shot in Rovinj on 8 February 1944. Joseph Duas, a blacksmith, died in the struggle at Pazin in 1944. Anton Mausa Mirko, a forest worker and merchant, Miho Milanović – miner, Ivan Brečević Šimat – farmer, Zvonimir Brumbić – otherwise comes from the farming family, Croatia, finished the religion, priest, priest in Oprtlje. Ivan Barbalić, elected ZAVNOH and Avnoj. Nikola Černeka, Dusan Diminić, Franjo Dorčić, Ljubo Drndić, Ivan Jelovac – a farmer shot by fascists. Ivan Kolić, famous meteorologist. Ivan Motika – Judge, Silvo Milenić Lovro – worker, carpenter. Josip Pavlisic, an archbishop in Mir, comes from the farming family, the Croats, finishes the seminary, ordered as a priest, served in the war in Gologorica, immediately joined the NOP, is among those priests who remained faithful all the time and in their people when Istria was finally released, assumes office at the bishop's seminary in Pazin, performs various church duties, was archbishop of Rijeka-Senj, today retired. Josip Pajica – farmer, Nada Raner Mureta – teacher, Ciro Raner – doctor, Giacomo Urbinz – Italian, by interest of baker. Ante Mandić, born in Trieste, etc., etc. These decisions, to say the same thing, were accepted by the warm Slavic peoples of Istria. So, the Croats and the Slovenes. Slovenians also have similar decisions. Also with the enthusiasm of this decision are supported by Istrian peoples, a national clergy of which, what is also interesting, I deliberately apostropheed it, the three of them and the signatories of those decisions. It is important to stress that for the first time in their historical memory Istria, Rijeka, belonging to the islands after 13 centuries under foreign rule, they are freed with great sacrifices. 17 thousand fallen fighters, and the victims of fascist terror, and are joined together with the queen of the land. These were the basic reasons why the SAB of the County of Istria assessed that the date should also be marked at national level. So, with the need to protect every minority, regardless of origin, I said, resolve and property dispute related to these post-war exodus, but here I only think of 5 thousand 236 cases of people who left ex Yugoslavia. Otherwise, from the space of Croatia, it was all up to 196,000. True, the uprising in Istria was massive. He was spontaneous, he was universal. It is also true that the Communist party of Italy was not about Istra being integrated into the national territory of the Croatian people, i.e. the Slovenian people, but it is true that the periodical decisions were on the trail of expectations of a Slavic being who further mobilized the Croatian and Slovenian population. The truth is, after what we call the small freedoms Hitler sent to Istria, Rommel, who in one of the most brutal ways because of the fear of allied landing in those areas, established a German administration. This Rommel, whom, because of his involvement in the assassination of Hitler, many celebrate as uncontested, "the war was" the German size, wrapped Istria in black and as no one ever left a wasteland behind his troops. In those few weeks, 2,500 people were killed. The truth is that after the war there was a mass exodus, for example of 32,000 people in Pula, 28 of them left the city. It's a big wound to the Istrian heart, why there's an exodus, there's more reason. Since the new territorial political structure some have not accepted, that Italy has run a policy like the Krajisnik, we all go back, that in the new social structure some have failed, etc. So I am aware that this decision by the Parliament may cause controversy in Italy such as their day of exodus, their day of memory as that ridiculous film "Heart in the well" also caused a revolt with the Croatian and Slovenian public. However, I like to say that the exodus is actually the last act of an imperial great Italian policy to the Slavic whip in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Gorizi, etc. As the exodus of Serbs from the province is the last goal of Milosevic's policy to these areas, as it seems to me, the President of the Parliament, Mr Sheks, when marking the Storm. Politics means renaissance, terrorism that fascists used above all over the Croatian and Slovenian peoples, those two peoples who cannot agree on the border today, which is why we show maturity, especially Slovenians, because they are those who do not have to perform there, led to the fact that the Slavs have said more than our natural right to be on our own as it says in decisions, fate in their own hands. I said 17 thousand Istrians, Croats, Slovenians, Italians paid for it with their lives. I want to point out the same way that I sincerely regret all those who left those premises after 2. World War II, fascists fled 43 at the latest 45th, but many good people, innocent people, leave those premises because of the fact that they didn't find their way to 47th and 54th, respectively. But today we can't bring history back, Istria deserves to be worth a folk's liberation fight, and because I would say Croatia with all due respect marks on September 25th. To lead the most honest minority policy and to clearly try to resolve these relations with the neighbours. To end, if there were no folk-freedom struggle, Istria would never have been part of Croatia, had it not been for 17 thousand victims, Istria would never have been in Croatia, had it not been for Joseph Broz Tito, as controversial as it may seem to anyone else, Istria would never have been in Croatia or Slovenia. The NOB fighters will not regain the rights acquired, not because I would not want it, but because such a will did not exist even in the government's mandate before this, when it could be achieved, I think the debt to these people would be fully fulfilled. If that's not possible entirely then it's possible for disabled 2. World War II equals the disabled of the Homeland War. Thank you also to the government who supports this initiative, thank you also to all those who will raise their hands for this initiative, the Partizan movement was not anti-Italian movement in Istria, it was anti-fascist means against fascism not Italians. Only such clarity could at that time have been given legitimacy on these grounds is only possible to conduct politics in the Istrian spaces at this time and I want to believe that this will be the case all the time and the future. With those words, I thank you and invite you to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43199	Thank you very much. I thought there wouldn't be a correction on this wheel, but two are corrections. First came Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43200	Well, here's colleague Cain can never speak of this sad time from our past, saying she won't mention the ones she shouldn't mention for the good. He says Istria would never have been released if it hadn't been for another Tito, so Comrade Tito and his communist party had nothing to do with the uprising in Istria, in Istria it was an authentic Croatian, anti-fascist movement which was spontaneous and the communists only took it over in the end of the 43rd and early 44th and then Comrade Tito and his terrorist communist party got into it and then those good results of Croatian anti-fascists turned it into their communist victory. That is true, and you, as well as many times as you have compared this man and his organization, have offended all the sacrifices that have given their lives for the release of our Istria and our Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43201	Thank you very much. I would add that not only were Croatian anti-fascists involved but also the anti-fascists Slovenians and Italians and others who were there in the course of 2. World War I. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43202	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43203	Thank you very much. Is it on behalf of the Committee? Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43204	I'm not going to give up but I'm going to try to correct one false allegation precisely because my esteemed colleague Cain mentioned a name that my colleague Loncar said shouldn't mention. I don't know if without Tito Istria would ever be Croatia but I certainly know that Croatia would be at least September 13th if it wasn't Tito. On September 13th, the Istrian People's Liberation Committee and, in fact, in a permanent way in today's sense, the Istar Assembly decided that Istria should join the Matika Croatia. And it was precisely during Tito's intervention that many citizens were asked to correct the decision to bring Yugoslavia in, which was done not on 25 September 25th on 26 September 43rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43205	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Do the representatives of the board want to? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Lino Cervar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43206	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the final proposal of the Law on Holidays, memorials and working days in the Republic of Croatia delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be declared the date of the adoption of the decision on the unification of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island with the Matica Land on 25 September and the date of international recognition of the Republic of Croatia on 15 January. I would not in my speech try to give it a little politically because I will be very happy if there is as many indigenous population in Istria as possible and not that it happens that every year there are fewer of us, currently even in Istria about 38% of the total population in Istrian Croats or Istria however you like. Recalling the September events of the year 43rd when Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and islands are united with the queen country Croatian man cannot be indifferent. It was a time when it was difficult for the Istrian Croats because the foreign authorities did not choose the means and methods to achieve the separation of Croatian beings, the birthing and emigration of Croats. Despite all that, however, Croatianism took place in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the islands. The people managed to preserve their national identity, mother tongue, culture and their own self. It is certainly true as it is equally true that this small but miraculously proud people had the nerve to give the first armed resistance to surmounted fascism in Europe. With special pleasure and pride as an Istrian Croat, I remind myself of the great September events of 1943 for which the achievement was indeed to be had by ladies and gentlemen. It is not just about the plebiscitarian people's uprising on September 9th, then on September 13th when, in the general joy and people's euphoria, the District People's Liberation Committee in Pazin made a historic declaration containing a plebiscitarian state-of-the-art decision on the accession of Istria to the country and the declaration of unification with the rest of the Croatian brothers. It was actually a turning point in the life of the people of Istria. On September 20th of that historic day of ZAVNOH or the Croatian National Liberation Council, the then government of Croatia confirms the decision of the District Liberation Committee in Pazin, or the conclusion of the release of Istria from Italy and its accession to Croatia, and through it, Yugoslavia as well as Rijeka, Zadar and the island. Of course, he means Cres, Lošinj, Lastovo. Unlike the pasta decisions, therefore, a broader general Croatian meaning is given here unlike Istria, because other alienated Croatian regions are returning to Croatia. In addition, ZAVNOH strengthened the guard's decision and declared it valid and state-law correct. That day is practically Istria and, in fact, one decision is included in the country system of Croatia. Furthermore, the assembly of representatives of the people in Pazin, where the temporary Regional Executive Committee for Istria was established, was held in two days September 25 and 26 September and where decisions were made wisely, the paternity decisions in accordance with the previous decision of ZAVNOH that first Istria seceded and secededed from Italy and later united with our Croatian. Therefore, the periodical decisions and September 13th and those worked out on September 25th are, in fact, the Declaration of the Liberation of Istria and its unification with the homeland. If the custody decisions of September 13th have a first-rate significance because the Istrian people have given us a new life within their country of Croatia, but on September 25th, the Regional People's Liberation Committee for Istria now through the legally elected 28 representatives of Istria and with representatives of the Croatian and Italian people on their first-right Assembly of Istria resolve wisely, very wisely how the Istrans always knew how to resolve the wise question of their sovereignty. For the state of Croatia, for Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the islands on September 25th, the day of merger with the queen of the country is for all of us, so for all of us the great day because on that day, on the basis of those paternity decisions since 13th September, what is happening now is that and with political and legal content we finally joined together with our country of Croatia. It was an important step in the anti-fascist fight and a crucial step on the hard and literally bloody path towards establishing Croatia as a country in the world free peoples community. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been a difficult road to freedom. For her, she was patient, dying with her paws, and without words. And because of all the victims and sufferings of the Istrian people as well as those in Rijeka, in Zadar and islands must be highlighted with a high understanding and sense of responsibility to cultivate and protect the equality of all entities in these areas, especially the indigenous population of Croats, Italians and Slovenians. But equally all national and religious communities. And that is why I must say but honestly, ladies and gentlemen, that I must give recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its President, Dr. Ivo Sanader and the IDS if you want to do everything you can to balance the positive relations between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Government, the IDS and all citizens of Istria in order to improve Istria and our common country of Croatia. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important historical events in Croatia's recent history is Croatia's Day of International Recognition on 15 January 1992. The act of recognising an independent and democratic Croatian state confirmed Croatia's right to independence. This has achieved the eternal aspirations of the Croatian people for their own state. But like any other, the other well-organised state, as well as our Croatian state, must offer both employment and raising living standards, but also ideals and visions of something better and more worth living for and dying for. Now that we have our own country, when democracy is, exchangeability from power, we must not bring dissension and hatred, insult, perform with hate speech as we have heard today because it is nothing more than a pretense for physical destruction of man. And so, unfortunately, we do a lot of things. As a young country of huge potentials in the country and displaced Croatia, as a country of beauty and unused values, as a young country before European and all other integrations we must build our own but its ladies and gentlemen identity. Because he offers security, strength, courage, determination, visibility, credibility. And finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the marking of these major events of special importance for our country with a message that every year, when we mark these memories of the day, we do not accept it as a national dimension as an annoying political ideology or promotion, but as a genuine desire for us and our parents, our children and grandsons to model together, with the inspiration of historical victories, a long-term national vision and projects. Croatia is the unity of the living and the dead, past and future. Young and old. For this reason, because of all those who have witnessed these grand events, those who act in government duties must be combative and passionate people with a sense of community and responsibilities, as well as responsibilities. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43207	I thank Mr. Cervar. And now, on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's giving up. Thank you. On behalf of the DC Club of HSLS and LS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go. Oh, no, no, I'm sorry. [[The intruders don't understand.]] This is about the rights of Croatian defenders inserted here I'm sorry, I didn't read this one, I apologize, did I? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Oh, here. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club fully supports the government's proposal that has been consumed, consumed and part of the IDS proposal, and I want to believe that today the law will be passed to mark the coming day when it comes to Istria, Dalmatia and islands, but also the proposal to mention the day as a memory of the day of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. As far as my personal vote is concerned, he will depend on how the government will demonstrate itself about the amendment given to this bill, which we have jointly submitted by colleague Zgrebec and colleague Pavlic, who was given in writing in time and with all the reasons necessary to understand the reason for his submission. For the sake of time, I won't use all that and arguments away in history and the significance of the date we're proposing but allow me just 5 facts. After World War I and the signing of the truce on November 10, 1918. The Drava was declared by a line that armies in conflict and war should not cross. 7.8 days before that, Hungarians, Hungarian army and gendarmes had retired from Međimurje expecting military entry through Drava. What happened in Zagreb and the National Council all these days is difficult to dissipate but the fact that no one had the will or the political courage or the willingness to talk about Međimurje as an undisputed part of Croatia. After 7.8 days when the Hungarians saw the Drava not crossing, they returned with their gendarmes and army to Međimurje and then made a real slaughter. So far, 110 names and last names of persons who were shot, hanged, or otherwise killed in just a few days of their return after escape have been found. With a failed attempt to release Međimurje, an action that produced fruit was carried out on December 24, 1918 when some 3,000 Croatian soldiers ordered by Lieutenant Colonel Slavko Kvaternik succeeded in short military action to free the military of Međimurje and thus solved the problem which was obviously indecisible for the National Council in Zagreb. You know that on December 1, 1918, practically the Kingdom of SHS was created without Međimurje. Then no Majimur. The military action enabled a series of gatherings, congregations in major Međimurje places to result in everything being held on 9 January 1919 when some 10,000 people gathered in the Franciscan square in Čakovec towards historical sources at the National Assembly and reached a resolution that was later of great importance and allowed that the issue of belonging to Međimurje Croatia should not have been the subject of international arbitration and arbitration, negotiations and peace agreements as it was then done. From January 9th 1919 until June 4, 1920, the uncertainty of Međimurje lasted because it was then signed by the Versai Treaty or by the historical documents written in the Triianon Treaty by the Hungarians in order to give up Međimurje and that it belonged to Croatia. Until 1929, Međimurje was not attached to any Croatian county at the time but there was a citizen commissioner and Međimurje had the status of special territorial work. Historic records and documents on the subject do not raise any doubt about the historical significance of that date. I want to convince you that in historical terms for us in Međimurje these dates and these events are worth as much as the historical facts that are in '43. were going on in Istria, Zadar, Dalmatia and the islands. And if we are changing this law right now at the moment of this date that is significant for Istria, Dalmatia and the islands, I want to believe that there will be so much political will to be installed in this law and mentioned as regards Međimuri in order to allow us to mark these historic events in January of the month in an appropriate, solemn way. The more we managed to find more than 60 years of searching and monuments that were destroyed as part one in 1941 when the Hungarians unfortunately returned to Međimurje again and tried to suppress all the remains of the event since the end of 1918, 19. And the '20s. A year. For this reason, I ask you and I call upon you to put this law and this memorial into it, to understand me and to understand that we are passing on the aspirations, demands and requests of the people of Međimurje and that we do not have to reason again and torture ourselves with the new amendment of the Christmas law in order to be mentioned in Croatia in January next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, you couple who remain in the assembly may listen to a few words in this acclaim on amendments and additions, one more amendment and addition to the Law on Holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of the HSP Club. I'm deliberately reading the whole title and the simple reason why the title is already inappropriate. Namely, the title is already per se confusing. What are holidays, what are mentioned, what are unworkable days and whether there are holidays that are working days, whether there are holidays that aren't working days, whether they are mentioned, whether they are working or not, whether they overlap or not. Except that the title is in itself confusing, and this proposal actually shows that one in our court shows one unnecessary obsession for, obsession with Croats, that the law prescribes the marking of everything and everything at the level of the law, and this is also expressed by this proposal, that is, these proposals. Namely, no one argues that the meeting of the Regional People's Liberation Committee for Istria on 25 September 1943 on the decision to unite certain Croatian parts with the queen of the country of Croatia to determine this as mentioned, is absolutely undeniable. Because it is certainly an important and very important event in Croatian history, but forgive the equally important or even more important in Croatian history there are hundreds. All of them should be marked, but in our court not in a way that is specifically cited and particularly regulated by law, because it is simply an unusual practice in Europe and the world. I will, for example, give you only a few information about other countries and compare it to the already existing situation in Croatia. Thus, in the United Kingdom, the 10 holidays that are also national holidays and that are unworkable and regulated by law. You don't think in the history of the United Kingdom there are more than 10 dates to be solved or declared law in the UK? Belgium 10, Cyprus 7, France 10, Greece 12, Ireland 11, Italy 10, Netherlands 7, Scotland 9, Switzerland 9. Turkey 7 and imagine in the world's most human, multiethnic and multicultural country, the United States, 7.7 national holidays, holidays and days of unemployment. In Croatia, we actually have 23 so far listed in the law of 21 unworkable days. Therefore, all such events in our court that are important events in Croatian history or important in Croatian history should be autonomously determined by sublegal acts or by government experts or by providing us with a bill that will, for example, improve the economic position or social status of citizens in Croatia. Namely, the indifference of the arrangement of this matter is so that few people know today in Croatia what state holidays are and what is their connection to holidays and memorials. In the end, relevance is expressed only through the question of whether or not it is working days, and which, by our court, should certainly not be the law's intensities. For example, ladies and gentlemen celebrate June 22nd, and who knows little about Croatia on June 25th. Both of these two days are certainly unworkable, and both of these two days are not holidays, and the answer to what they are and when they are the Holy Three Kings and the Body would show a disappointing number of people who would know it, even the MPs of the congregation, what when we celebrate. Are the Holy Three Kings a holiday or a state holiday, whether it's a workday or a day off, whether it's a body holiday or a state holiday and whether it's a working day or a day off, or maybe it's something mentioned? So far, the practice of setting up national holidays and mentioned by party and all sorts of strange motivations resulted ultimately in a general disagreement in the calendar, so I will, interestingly, remind you of the heated debates that took place in this Assembly in the last session when a resilient holiday reformer, Ivo Škrabalo, conducted his proposal in the parliamentary procedure even with this argument, to be called calendar producers and to ask what the next year will be a state holiday. That was his argument. The incomparability of what he calls the way matter is governed by the existing law, the law quotes again the title "on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days" reminds me of that phrase "Hvar" from the island of Brac performs the song "Vela Luka". Obviously, it's no longer a question of who will know exactly the name and the song but who will hit it. It is therefore obvious here that a certain social issue, i.e. a certain social relationship, is transformed into a legal relationship by the power of the legal norm, in an entirely inappropriate way. This is what ladies and gentlemen always do when the legal norm does not actually follow the social context, environment and tradition, and what in our community means that a new law should be laid down by the court of the club HSP, a new law should set short and clear what state holidays are and what are unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, and all others mentioned and everything else should be marked and dignifiedly celebrated in completely other ways than by law, because otherwise what I said is happening is that we already have more than triple such specific dates in the law than the United States has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43211	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She's the first one to be Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I actually support both the bill and the other, given that the government has introduced the IDS club's proposal into its law. So the mentioned in Croatia is marked September 25th as a memory of the merger of Istria, Dalmatia and Dalmatian towns and islands and 15th, when Croatia is internationally recognised as an independent state. The national holidays, or mentioned ones, actually determine the memories of certain dates and certain historical events of a nation. Croatia's national history, and this is visible from our declared national holidays and is mentioned in fact very much, and that Croatia has actually been going through difficult trials during this long period of history and it was long to become an independent state. In particular, these difficulties were felt by those parts of Croatia that had been torn apart from the mother country and who had been under foreign rule for a longer or shorter time and who had been systematically reared from their native people. There I am, as my colleague Lesar said, a co-signator of the amendment that another end of Croatia, which has been completely eight centuries, has been demarcated, which has been, for which almost all neighbours have been abducted, and even today when we are establishing a land border with our neighbouring Republic, we also have some disagreements in this part of Croatian territory. A colleague, Lesar, spoke about the current time and event that we propose as mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, which refers to the breakup of ties with the Hungarian state and unification with the then state of Croats, Slovenians, Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. I will say this when I mentioned these eight centuries of Međimurje under Hungarian authority, that often both Croatian authorities and in the history of Croatia's Velmoz could easily give up the territorial part of Croatia just because these properties might have allowed them some of their special political breakthroughs. So, Međimurje is all the way from there from the Pact of the Convention is no longer part of Croatia and since then there has been a struggle and opposition to systematic Hungarianisation that has often been fought in different ways. It's popular today with carrots and beatings. The Hungarian teachers even had an order from the Ministry of Education in Budapest to examine how, what are the ways and opportunities for the Međimurians to be born of their native people as soon as possible, so to accept the language and customs of the Hungarian people. That it wasn't a successful statement of historical fact. Hungarian citizens did not come to Međimurje to settle, officials came to come and go. Today, over 96% of Međimurje lives in a clean Croatian animal. As we said we would shorten our exposure, I'll just say that the late academic Grga Novak also said in time that we should review this phenomenon when a nation has been exposed for centuries to the policy of supranationality managed to fully maintain its national and cultural identity. And I'd just like to say this one more time. Let's not let this piece of land, which is only 630 km2 and which today is inhabited by about 120 thousand inhabitants, we often call it the "flash of Croatian land" which the aliens called "hortus Croatia" that today Croatian Parliament rejects this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43213	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43214	... on the proposal, therefore, primarily on the possibility that the day of adoption of the resolution on the secession of Međimurje from the Hungarian administration should be declared as mentioned in the Republic of Croatia on 9 January. [[Specially enabled.]] As a signator of the amendments, it is understood that I support this being introduced for reasons which have already been presented by Mr. Lesar and Mrs. Zgrebec, but allow me to point out indeed... the fact that the majority of my history was indeed under the rule of non-Croatian administrations, and in most cases it was the administration of Hungary, i.e.. Hungary, and later it was the same as Slovenia, etc. Even the data themselves tell us that by 1848 Međimurje was under the rule of Bulgaria and that in 1848, Ban Jelačić could have said, for the first time, freed Međimurje from Hungary. The relative peace lasted until 1861, so from 1848 to 1861, Međimurje was part of the Varazdin County. But in 1861 again, the political games of Međimurje were joined by Hungary and it lasted until 1918 when there were events in this amendment, i.e. 24.12. were led by... operations to release Međimurje. [[You don't understand.]] 9.1 So a resolution was adopted, supported by the majority of locals and citizens of Međimurje, who were asked to join Croatia, which we could say, by severe torture only in 1920, by a peace treaty when Međimurje joined the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. In some ways, there is, therefore, the main step made to joining Međimurje in the long term with its mother. But it wasn't like that anymore. In fact, from 1922 to 1929 Međimurje was part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, i.e. the then state but was transferred to the Maribor area. So she was again under the rule of the non-Croatian administration, i.e., Slovenians who, like the Hungarians, tried not to Hungarianise but to Slovenianise the Međimurje. From 1929 to 1939. Međimurje was part of the Sava Banovina, and in that term we again found the same unpleasant fact that in 1931 the municipality of Štrigova was divided and, therefore, was administratively assigned to municipalities, Slovenian municipalities of Lendava and Ljumjer. From 1939 to 1941, it was part of Banovina Croatia, so that again from 1941 to 45 it would be under Hungarian occupation, and in those four years a strong Hungarianisation was done which our parents remember and do not remember, therefore, in some kind of good light. I think, therefore, that the Croatian Parliament should accept this amendment and that even throughout Croatia, not only in Međimurje celebrates this date. Because for us, this date in Međimurje is important before this. It would be good, therefore, if in Croatia they knew that the Međimurci were very much through all these years, for decades and centuries they cared to return to the wing of their queens, not to be more or less manoeuvres for the promotion of these or those interests and great powers. There, so much with... So let's all accept this amendment together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think that after so many years, however, Međimurje deserves this relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian state towards its history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43215	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've called for a hearing, no matter how much I'm not one of the subsignors of this amendment, and I am a representative from Međimurje. I do not know why I am not a co-signator and there is no Mr. Lesar here who has initiated the signing of the amendment, but I want to make it clear that he has come to me and said that I would sign it because I have fat reasons and, together with him, I have agreed with him and last week when visiting the Croatian Prime Minister Međimurje that such an amendment is being signed and that, and that he is trying to put himself in line with those dates that will be marked and legally marked also in this House. Why am I still in favour of accepting such an amendment and being mentioned on January 9th? So because I had an opportunity in 93th year as secretary... /The speaker turned off, then subsequently turned on./ in one visit to the delegation of the Međimurje County to the first Croatian President, Dr Tudjman, to be in a position where he himself supported in some way, I will not tell the initiative but to think. It was then that the date could in some ways be marked worthy in the history of the entire Croatian state. And regardless of which is one of the dates after which, unfortunately, Međimurje fell under Hungarian rule again, I think that date is important because it is the first time that political will has been manifested. So, this political will was made clear to all, the rest of the Croatian state, and also the Kingdom to which Croatia belonged, that Međimurje is the Corps of the State and that it wants to be within that Croatian Corps. Unfortunately, during World War II, Pavelic allowed Horti without any struggle and free passage across Međimurje to the German units for progress in the Balkans and never closed the border on the Mura River but was on the Drava River. Thus, in 41 to 45, Međimurje was again under Hungarian authority that only 6 April 45 of Croatian anti-fascists and Allied forces would be released, in the literal sense of that word, from Hungary. And after that, never more separated from the queen of the Croatian state. So, I am for that, and I am asking my colleagues who are also here in the House to accept this law in a way that this amendment that my colleagues, Lesar, Pavlic and Zgrebec have signed, I repeat without me, but which I support because they have neither informed me nor asked me to sign it, and I will support that amendment. I will support this amendment because I think it is evidence of the importance and size of that date for the Croatian state and the fact that today, according to the latest census in Međimurje, there is 94% of the Croatian population. And that's something founded on the good part and on that date. Because after that, there were attempts again, meaning by the Hungarians, that in any way this Croatian animal was born, but thanks to the Međimurje song, the Međimurje culture and above all the Catholic Church was held also Croatian. And today, I think, at least you're mistakenly perceived in public, I think there are a lot of people in Međimurje who speak Hungarian, very many Hungarians. I say there are 10 people in Međimurje who may know Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43217	Thank you very much. And five minutes on behalf of the HSU Club. Mr. Representative Joseph Judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43218	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a little unusual for me to report at the end, but I must say that I also support the bill and a special amendment. What's the suggestion about Istria? I am bound to Istria by a person who is not mentioned here today even though Mr Cain has named many. I'll name her, her name is Maria Zidaric. She died 10 years ago, and for me she took the first steps of her life. She was a teacher, an exile. When she spoke of Istria, she had tears in her eyes. And it's hard for me to speak in her memory, in her goodness, and for her memory, and here I have spoken her name with what others deserve. She is for me a person who, even though she was exiled, passed on her knowledge to us and what I have achieved today, I can thank her. Second, with Međimurie. I have to say that I was a little boy and I remember Mr. Zdelar published at a rally in Čakovec, and we're just over Drava, that Međimurje joined the Croatian Matika Međimurje, it's a joke today, it's not a joke, it's true. Which is why he said it, he felt that Međimurje was never separated from the Mother of Croatia, he felt that Croatia was always in the hearts of the right Međimurians and therefore please do not make an injustice not to accept this amendment. Here are my colleagues, all three of them, who support and will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43219	Thank you. Do the promoters want to look around for a little while? The Secretary of State, and then Agent Caine, as the legislator of the second law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43220	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government thanks everyone who supported the government's proposal and we have listened carefully to the explanation of the proposed amendment, the government highly appreciates all the ends of the Republic of Croatia and the efforts and concerns that Croatian citizens have invested in surrounding Croatian national territory, and the government will accept this amendment when it comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43221	Dear Representative Damir Cain, as a legislator, is also a lawmaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43222	President, there is really no need after consensus has been reached to usurp someone's time and I think it's good after all the disqualifications that have been heard during yesterday and today. I want to say a few more moments, that maybe, I won't water down with Mr. Boras, but there are three basic moments that Istria is where it is, it's all the national Istrian uprising that eventually gave 17 thousand sons and daughters to the altar of victory over fascism, it's the entry of how to tell Titus's troops in Trieste, because it was logical that whoever holds Trieste in Trieste will eventually negotiate, and it will increasingly belong to him a clearly diplomatic battle which, in 47th, resulted in Istria belonging first to Mirna to ex-Yugoslavia and then 54th and the area of Bujština, i.e. Koparština. In all of this, of course, the Paz Decisions have one of the NOB's central places in Istria, which is mentioned in all national uprisings, have determined the fate of that area. I'd say the Istrian antifascism didn't even appear in 39 when it started 2. World War I or 41 years ago. That he was equally cruel to the Italians, and to the Croats, Slovenians anti-fascists. The truth is what Mr., not Judge, Loncar, would say is sorry, it is true that the Croatian KP did not act in Istria until 43, while the KP of Italy was strong, even the first victim of fascism was Italian Pietro Ivo from Rovinj. While the Italians, Croats, Slovenians combined in the fight against fascism, there are few Italians and this should be recognised whether Istria, Rijeka etc., then belongs to ex-Yugoslavija. The Italians were to define the status of Istria after the war, Croats and Slovenians, which is logical to bear in mind the memory of fascism even for the war, and hence the Pazian decisions that had a strong impact on the mobilization of Istrians. Interestingly, the only Italian crematorium was in Rižarna meaning in Trieste where Slavs, Croats and Slovenians mostly ended. There were a lot of camps in Italy but the crematorium was only one and that was at the border in Istria. There were great people among the Italians, who, like Schindler in Germany, saved Jews, 878 Jews were interned from Rijeka, Opatija, Istria to the final camps throughout Germany. It's interesting that these September days, the Partisans saved Italian soldiers from the Germans, that there was revenge, that there was... there were... there were but not nearly any figures mentioned in the Italian press, but I repeat, the 17 thousand Istrian victims were fascist terror victims. It is necessary to bring down the myth of some who mention that Pavelic had similar decisions, these are the most harsh forgeries, although he once mentioned it but then mentioned Istria only to Rasa. Not one Istrian who left Istria in the 20s was with Pavelic, many Istrians from Kersovani, from Družepa, Kirc, Vitasović, Cilige, Bosac, Slava, Adolf Kete, Antun Zele, Bozac, were in Kerestinec, all others were known to be with NOB, however, I repeat, the Istrians themselves raised the uprising, the Istrians themselves signed an act in territorial integration into the national corpusses of the Croatian so Slovenian people. However, it is necessary to clearly appreciate the role of anyone who, along with them, freed those spaces. The role of the church in Istria should be appreciated, although it also divided into 47th in Croatia. Slavic or Italian cler because Bishop Radosi left Istria in 47 with all Italian priests, and that was the first sign of the Italians to leave the premises in the exodus. I will no longer go into history, I will not abuse this moment, 25th September 43th is certainly a great day of Croatian integration as important to Croatia as for Istria and I hold so much as to mark it. I will conclude by acknowledging that day, including or among the mentioned Republic of Croatia, that we pay a debt to the pitet of 17 thousand victims who fell on the altar of integration of Istria into the national Corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43223	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on both these two bill proposals. Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Holidays, the Memorial of Days and Unworked Days in the Republic of Croatia. The amendments submitted by representatives Dragutin Lesar, Željko Pavlic and Dragica Zgrebec were accepted by the promoter in his statement. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour, 11 abstentions were passed mentioning the law with, along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43256	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, the first report on the suspension of the term of office of representative of Professor Ivica Mastruk and the termination of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Zeljko Kurtov. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 18th session held on 20 September 2005 the written request of Professor Ivica Mastruk's representative from 22 August 2005, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament about the re-behaving of the representative's duties. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term for Mr. Professor Ivica Mastruki was elected on the list of the Croatian People's Party IX. The election team began on 22 December 2003 and began acting as his deputy, Zeljko Kurtov, on the same day. The Commission has established that certain conditions have been met by law and is in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on selecting representatives to the Croatian Parliament rests on MP Ivica Mastruk's term of office on the eighth day since the written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament of 22 August 2005 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of representative and to suspend the deputy representative's term of office, which states on 30 August 2005 that the term of office of representative Dr Ivica Mastruk was suspended and that the deputy representative of Mr Zeljko Kurtov ceased to act on 30 August 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43257	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 96 votes. Mr. President, second but a little shorter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43258	Therefore, the second report on the start of the term of office of MP Damir Spanishic and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Vladimir Stengl, so the mandate committee at today's session received a written request from MP Damir Spanishic, who informed the commission that a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was elected as assistant minister by the government of the Republic of Croatia on 21 September this year. The commission found that Mr Damir Spanishic began acting on that duty on 22 December, that he had been elected as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in the V. constituency, and that the Croatian Democratic Union had appointed Mr Vladimir Stengl as deputy representative in the V. constituency. The Commission also established that the conditions laid down in the law for the start of the stay of the representative's mandate, Damir Spanishic, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Vladimir Stengl, and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that a decision be taken on the start of the term of office of representative and the start of acting as deputy representative, which determines that on 21 September 2005, the term of office of representative Damir Spanishic was set at rest and that the agent's duty was in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 23 September 2005 began acting as Deputy Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43259	Thank you for making this short. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Now we'd move on to making an oath. What vote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, please, let's get involved, I forgot. We can vote. The result? Decision taken, proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission. Representatives Ivica Mastruko and Vladimir Stengl will swear an oath. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, then the MP after being called up and saying "I swear." I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Your Honor, Mr. Mastruko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43261	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43262	Thank you. Mr. Stengl, go ahead! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43263	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-23-0.u43264	Thank you. I congratulate the representatives of Mastruk and Stengl on their sworn oath and wish them success in performing an honorable and responsible representation. And I also thank the previous representatives of Željko Kurtov and Damir Špančić for their work so far on behalf of all of us. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. I apologize for this delay. We had a session of the extended Presidency of the Parliament with the presidents of all clubs, to try to find mechanisms for discussions in the Croatian Parliament to take place within the limits of tolerance, that in a sharp political match and fight but without insult, without hate speech. We will continue the debate at this extended session of the presidency to raise the dignity of the Croatian Parliament as a whole and all of us representatives and parties, to exclude what does not belong to democratic civil dialogue and conversation and confrontation. We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 348; Proposer is Government. We've accepted an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would like Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office for the Management of Zoran Piculjan to give a brief further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
