ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35753	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I think that in this Parliament it has been repeatedly found necessary to reform local self-government and administration, and these very reform words about this necessity, I usually say we listen before the elections, there is no political party that holds onto it without promising to implement a radical reform of local self-government and administration. Unfortunately, when possible and when this parliamentary majority is realized, then it is easy to give up or usually like this in a minute to twelve or even a small delay that we are facing certain laws that should be a very complex area to edit. We have re-linsed the Republic of Croatia to a new territorial... the way there at the end of 92 and like any attempt at reform is always good to spend some time and to see how it works in everyday life and then we had a number of municipalities, a number of cities and a number of counties and what was happening. [[You don't understand.]] There was one very simple thing that happened from year to year that the number of municipalities increased, the number of cities increased. Everyone here in this House had this, suffered this pressure from the ground and was truly considered to be politically very successful and that they could also have a certain political power if they translated a municipality into a city or if they created a new municipality. And that's what we witnessed last week, such heated debates, where we called for the will of citizens, where we called for certain criteria, but I'm afraid that's actually it, that all those premises that don't come from this important thing. We can't get from our State Administration Office, which is an optimal number of our cities, which is an optimal number of our municipalities and which is an optimal number of our counties. These answers are avoided, and we can really do so if this situation continues to be this number of 500ths and some cities and municipalities to increase rapidly, but it does not answer this key question whether these taxpayers can serve, whether this awakening and generation of the administration makes any sense, and what I really mean in this whole story may be the most tragic one, and that is exactly the monotypic approach that you actually have between the municipality of the X population and someone, and the city has no legal formal difference. And I believe when I defend this law that you believe me to tell me one rich experience of the mayor of a great Croatian city, because by all parameters, criteria and in American literature and this European and especially German literature, a city that is more than 100,000 inhabitants is considered a big city. I'm aware that this bill of law on large cities is only a first step. He should provoke not only a debate but a radical reform, a radical reform of our local self-government and administration precisely to see where we are and what we are. You see, I hear here complaints that maybe 100 grand isn't the best criterion. Possibly. And that's really the thing that the legislator can handle. After all, if there is a Law on Great Cities, there can also be a law on medium cities. But when we took just the big cities and criteria of 100,000, then it was not only the quantity of the criteria but it was indeed the true centers of the Republic of Croatia and the political and cultural and scientific and economic. The word is first of all when I passed this law I meant Rijeka, Osijek and Split. And somewhere really in 92, 93, 94, then the mayors of Split, Rijeka and Osijek launched this initiative precisely by considering that they, that the politicistic development of Croatia, are indeed one of the most important and important issues of one economic and economic and political stability in the development of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has never been from one metropolis. It's this tradition, this history that needs to be respected, that needs to be learned from, that needs to be taken over, that has just enabled the development of a larger number of centers. And if we ignore that, you know this isn't in the function of some disintegration. However, this is precisely in the function that all of these negative political, primarily political charges between the centre of Zagreb and other centres that have the strength to do so, to try as hard as possible, to try to relax and we just think that it is unimaginable if you look at these statistical yearbooks then you will see really this uneven development of the City of Zagreb compared to the rest of Croatia. And it is precisely this law that tries first of all to regulate it in some way that we have to create several more of these mini centres in eastern Croatia, first of all, it is Osijek, in Dalmatia, it is certainly Split and in the Primorje-Gorski and Istria County that should certainly, for that area, for that part of Croatia, it should certainly be the city of Rijeka. I say in the end there are cities that really have a whole series of institutions as well as some other cities, and especially these smaller municipalities don't have and should, and that should also be respected. We actually already in these cities have some way actually the core of that power. You have no city in Slavonia except in Osijek State Archives. You don't have a museum anywhere, you don't have a university anywhere, and I think a good legislator should respect that. In this same way, economic development is actually encouraged. I think that this politic development, this dispersion of that power is, above all, financial, economic that something is necessary and that it's good. After this, I cannot or could not write a law on some cities that would belong to another species, but I kept mentioning it, and in this place I often spoke, if the 1895 legislator was aware of it, I really do not understand that the legislator from the end of the 12th century and now in the 21st century is actually trying to have equal access to all, according to each unit of local self-government in Croatia. On the other hand, what I hold to one great cunning of the mind of any authority, which is, in fact, that it is the fact that it is very cunning or skillful or less skillful to take charge of you and then by your affairs, and the perception of the public is the opposite, thinks that these are your obligations, in fact you have the opportunity to be determined by the civil servants both by the content and the appearance of the city and in some way by the fact that they are the fact that they are the fact, and not by you who have both the burden and the experience of the choice, and that is, for some time, the situation is frustrating to say and how to explain to someone, I don't know, that you don't run any parent books in the city, that you don't issue local or construction permits, and you are the mayor of that city. This situation, indeed, I dear representatives would ask you to imagine and see how in such a situation this entire city administration is, and in some ways, turning this sense of city authority into a simple farce. And I'm saying public perception is the opposite. The perception of the public is the opposite. It's been said a lot of times here, decentralisation is something that's waiting for us and we don't have to run from. Decentralisation is actually a function of the development of the Republic of Croatia. She's not her, she's not against her. However, and this is exactly the way, to actually go with a set of laws that are about to define these nuances, shades between our individual cities and the municipalities that certainly exist. And let's not ignore it right there, I say, I'm very happy to refer to that Croatian tradition, but then just like this when we need it and it sounds very nice, but when it needs to be translated into legal text, then it actually falls behind. I say, this law has just been written to provoke not only a debate or, I, it's clear to me that the parliamentary majority is the one who makes the laws, it's the one who raises or lowers his hand for a certain law. But this law wasn't written partyically, it was written right in life because this is, I say, a long-standing experience of me indeed, convinced me that, that it was really very difficult to be responsible, to assume all the ingenuity, and not to talk about this, that actually of all these ingenuities were just the most important that these intelligence followed this, followed by this, and financial self-port. To be that decentralisation, to be not only ingenuity but also finance, and to just allow our units of local self-government to develop freely, uninterrupted, but then the law must make it possible. Yes, just a whole series of government and county affairs, which is also in some ways colliding with these obligations, the city's ingenuities, or municipalities, should also be taken over. Especially where there are institutions, where there are opportunities and what I always say, we better do it than, I don't know, be, that once we have a story about negotiating with us, some of the European Union's conditions will certainly welcome us, and that story. Because the reorganisation of Croatia is necessary in the function of integration and it is necessary that this decentralisation is and it is necessary that this nuance of precisely those between cities, the municipalities where it is certainly the criterion of the quantity of the population is not important, but from something you must, something really has to start. And I think that, I've heard of this government's bill of law, that it's all the county centers. I'm afraid that's not the answer either, so more so, and indeed, that number of our counties is relatively questionable. There's a big difference there in quantity, but there's exactly that a whole series of these county centers actually don't have that institution, there's not that meaningful life like, say, they have these three cities. And I'm afraid once again, it's actually accessing one line of less resistance without some kind of over-analysm. He's actually trying to do it mechanically, not really analytically. This is precisely a very important problem that I think is also political and, that it is both a political and economic pair of excellence issues of all issues of the future development of the Republic of Croatia. Because if you ignore the local self-government, then I'm afraid it won't, we won't get far. Although I am fully aware that this relationship between this tendency of decentralisation and centralisation will always be, it is necessary but should be transformed into productive, and not here, I say, when we are actually creating from Zagreb a centre that has too much financial, economic and political power on top of the other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And I assure you that nothing dramatic would happen if there were a certain dispersion, above all this financial, economic and other power. Here I am saying here, I say, the law is really written first of all from this position by a longtime mayor who, indeed, I say, is very often frustrated with the fact that the perception of the public is that there are certain, that there is power, and in reality it is completely different. Because power often lies in the hands of state officials who are invisible, have no burden of choice, and actually make decisions that directly affect the quality and standards of life in the city. I would indeed, I say, ask you precisely to get rid of these ideological frameworks, to get rid of this fact that the parliamentary majority by definition if the government disagrees. Although I'm saying, I have to admit the government's explanation doesn't drink water. And after all, I can only tell you like this, a little bit, maybe a little bit of a joke, this law was first proposed in 94. And then an explanation was given that the government would make, that it was indeed, that the problem was well stabbed, that it was important. Here, it's been 11 years, and we haven't received one text from the government. I too, when I get some text that really will satisfy what everyday life arranges, that I will raise my hand for such a proposal by the government. But that's not the government's proposal, and I'm saying, I think we're actually dealing lightly with this important problem, I'm saying, which is not ideological, but first of all is life. And I hope that your discussions will be in that direction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35754	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35755	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Kramarić's incorrect allegations that, apart from Osijek in Eastern Slavonia, there is no other city that has a museum, and I would have met him that there are also museums in Vukovar and Vinkovci and that museum which, in its collection, has valuable works of Slavko Kopač, 20 world famous works, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35756	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System will submit a report. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35757	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 32nd session held on 30 March 2005 discussed the proposal for a law on large cities submitted by Zlatko Kramarić to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal for a law has been discussed on the basis of the jurisdiction set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the discussion, the Committee pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government also regulated the issue of large cities in an appropriate manner, which is different from the solutions proposed by this Proposal for a Law. After the debate, the Committee proposed a majority vote, 1 vote for the bill, and 6 votes were against, to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35758	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? There is no interest in further explaining the report. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35759	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia considered the proposal for a law on large cities proposed by MP Zlatko Kramaric and did not support this legislative proposal. The government is taking major activities in the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with constitutional frameworks. The government has adopted a decentralisation programme for the 2004 term of office. - 2007. She established the Commission for decentralisation and developed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government which the law was made in cooperation with the Union of Cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and which received full support from the National Association of Local Self-Government Units. This proposal proposes that the government leave the monotypic form of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia but respects Croatian realities, which is that for Croatia the opportunities are large cities, cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants, so we cannot remain on only three cities of Split, Rijeka and Osijek and the City of Zagreb which already has a special status, but we suggest that the status of the big city get the seats of the county and all other cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants and are not county seats, for example Pula. Therefore, given a number of remarks which we have submitted in writing to this esteemed House, we propose not to support this Law, but the Government will address this issue through the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35760	Thank you very much. Two notices. The 26th session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health will be held today on 6 April at 16:00 in the hall "Ivan Kukuljevic", and the Committee on Tourism at 13:30 in Hall 149. They called the presidents of the Tourism Committee. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, but before that I would like to allow me ladies and gentlemen MPs to propose an addition of the agenda of this session to the following points: We're going to debate clubs about the bill on big cities. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35762	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club does not support the Law on the Great Cities of Proposers of Mr Zlatko Kramarić, and because the law in question is in a normative, expressive and technical sense. Furthermore, the provisions of the law itself are indeed not comprehensive, can be characterised as incomplete, and related to legal institutes which are discussed by the law itself in a sense can be concluded that these provisions, i.e. legal institutes, are interlinked. The concrete text of the Law opens up a whole series of questions and doubts that we can raise under the following questions. In the first instance, these are issues of constitutional legal nature, or constitutional and legal issues, and of course we also find questions about the conduct of the tasks of supervision of the general acts of the representative bodies of the local self-government and inspection bodies, as well as other tasks for which the offices of the state administration are now in charge in the county itself. First, a question or a whole series of issues that are constitutionally legal. In this respect, the following should be pointed out, therefore, in its explanation of the proposal, the applicant correctly states the provisions of Article 133(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which regulates, among other things, that major cities in the Republic of Croatia can be given the power of the county, but as units of the regional self-government. This provision should be taken into account in relation to the constitutional and legal regulations under which the right to self-government is exercised through local or regional, regional representative bodies which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct and equal and general voting law, and in relation to Article 116(2). The constitution which regulates certain transactions, so I stress certain tasks of the state administration, can be entrusted by law to the bodies of units of local, regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. Therefore, in this respect, not only is the proposal controversial in relation to Article 116(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is already a controversial and proposed definition of the big city. It cannot be taken into account only the number of inhabitants and the formulation of a general type that points to the complexity of the organisational structure and the importance of the impact on the wider area as stated by the applicant in its reasoning. Therefore, the key question left by this proposal is what a large city is but in the overall functioning of local and regional self-government on the one hand and in the overall functioning of the state administration system. So, I'm stressing state administrations. Accordingly, it is not possible to accept the proposal that we find within the context of the content of the law that the large city is actually a unit of local self-government with the powers of the county. The second question concerns concrete proposed legislative solutions related to the performance of large-city affairs and the system of responsibility for the performance of operations at that level. According to the proposer's solution, the big city would do self-government and the city and the county, and would also do all the jobs, so I stress all the tasks of the state administration in the area of the big city. This formulation is found in Article 5 of the proposed Law, however, when this solution is analysed in relation to Article 8 at least three issues are raised. First. The mayor's responsibility for the affairs of the state administration. Second question. The possibility of performing public administration tasks by issuing orders or orders as a legal solution. Third question. The way and circumstances of the appointment of the Government's commissioners, especially his powers. Here the conclusion is imposed in itself, namely, the proposed solution is legally in terms of its application unsustainable and in the system of both state administration and local self-government unacceptable. Furthermore, the provisions of the proposed Articles 10 and 11 which regulate and manage, i.e. to carry out large-town business activities as well as competences, appointments and responsibilities for the conduct of administrative headships. Therefore, the head of the law's proposal would be responsible for those tasks which are at the level of units of local, regional self-government on the one hand, and for the head of state-level administration at the county level, on the other hand. These provisions introduce additional normative inaccuracies and the proposed solutions are not in line with the existing system, neither local self-government nor state administration. If we analyse them according to the electoral system, therefore, to the electoral system for the representative bodies of the units of local self-government and regional self-government and in relation to the choice of appointments of mayors and his responsibilities and the specific tasks he has under the law, we see that application in the specific life and functioning of such large cities as one, let us say specific or specific, specific elements in the system of functioning of the units of local and regional self-government would not be, neither would it be applicable nor acceptable. It's final. It is obvious that this bill does not determine the whole and consistent way of functioning of the state administration system. And notorna is the fact that the solution to the Law itself would only apply to four cities in the Republic of Croatia which can always be considered or asked a question which is, in total, a total of 123 cities that would according to that criterion or 100,000 inhabitants or those exceptions of 70 thousand inhabitants, which is with their status or therefore, another question of what is with 20 cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants. Finally, it is in the very sense that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot support the concrete proposal for a law on large cities, and this foothold is just found after, after the conclusion has been reached, following a comprehensive analysis of the concrete bill proposal, in order to implement it in our existing system of functioning of the regional local self-government on the one hand and also the functioning of the state administration, therefore, purely the state administration on the other hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35763	Thank you very much. One notice. The chairman of the Committee of Justice, Rade Ivas, called for today at 13:30 a.m. for a meeting of the Committee at the hall "Stepan Radic", (133). On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC, LS, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35764	Mr. Chairman, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A few days ago, we discussed in this assembly a few laws concerning local self-government, and unfortunately we could only conclude that once again, just before the local elections, we all discussed together exclusively and only the cosmetic changes on a few minor novels in the law but that we did not, in fact, change all those laws that regulate the issue of local self-government in any way. Croatia hasn't moved any further over the past 13 years. In 93 C.E., we had to pass appropriate laws and appropriate models and territorial administrative structure of Croatia and then part-round local and regional self-government businesses, but we all know how it was done then, we all know what was important to do at the time. That it was important, above all, in the naked sense, to territorially divide Croatia. That at that time we had more than enough tasks all together here in this House of Legislatives. But I'm really surprised we haven't done anything in 13 years. In 2001, before the elections themselves, we also improved the cosmetic laws here a little bit better, now before these elections in 2005 we do the same. And this is the only bill that actually wants, to call it, to slightly disrupt this form and the territorial administrative division of Croatia, and then the detour of the affairs of local self-government. The bill's proposal is imperfect, the bill's proposal may have certain shortcomings that call into question both the part-time affairs of the state administration and local self-government, and we can say that there are irregularities here. This is for the first time, however, that someone has warned all of us and all Croatian citizens that they should be flexible in the legislative initiative, that unfortunately we have monotypic planning, that we have a monotypic appearance of all local self-government and that it is practically disabling the development of Croatia. Not only in terms, we can thus say progress in democratisation and political relations and society as a whole. Because once again I will repeat what I said and last week, without local democracy there is no democracy, we must understand that once. If we will not support the process of democratisation in local self-government we can have a great constitution, we can have the most democratic president and prime minister, nothing is worth anything to us. Civil society is being built from below. Civil society is being built on the local committee as a form of self-organization of citizens. Civil society isn't being cut off from above. So that's the first important reason. Another important reason is the fact that such a territorial structure and such powers virtually hinder local self-government in what it is naturally intended for. Ladies and gentlemen, as mayor, I can tell you all who are sitting here in the chair that the citizens are not first speaking to the parliamentary representative. Citizens turn to the minister first. Citizens don't address the secretary of state first. Citizens do not address the prime minister first, even less the president of the state or the President of Parliament. Citizens first address their chief or mayor. They don't even talk to mayors as much as they do. And it's natural, and it's natural that they first address the head of local self-government, so the person they know is doing certain tasks that are of vital interest to citizens in a particular area, in a particular municipality or city. But on the other hand, this person can little or almost nothing, given the fact that he has no authority or if he has authority, then it is being hampered by a network or a collapsing of various other powers, the state authorities, the county authorities, and actually we gentlemen have today dedicated paralysis of the public service system precisely because there is no coordination and precisely because local self-government does not have almost any powers. Citizens will get to their mayor mainly if they want to go out with them, if they want to be in constant communication with them and about those issues that are related to the part-time affairs of local self-government, but I assure you that even the pensioners are coming to ask us when they will receive pensions or why pensions are like that? To ask us why, for example, something in the city is building although we do not have the ability to issue building permits? Let's say they come to ask you why they pour alcohol to minors, even though we don't have any authority, say, in a state inspection. That entrepreneurs will come to ask you about some of their, I don't know, tax difficulties or I don't know, some other state services. Everyone will come and everyone will ask the head of local self-government in their area. However, once again, I regret to say that we have completely tied hands and also in those powers where we could say something or perhaps where we could decide, and there are several other bodies that co-determine or we have to ask them or we have to consult so that we are practically completely slowed down. I'm asking what that makes sense? In a country of 4 and a half million people, so many European cities have citizens, and now imagine saying to any European city today and to the people of that city, this is how we're going to territorially divide you. There's 5 million of you. You'll have a president, a government, a parliament, and then you'll have 21 counties, so you'll have 600 municipalities, so you'll have 100 and some cities, but you know in fact all these and municipalities and cities and counties, they won't decide anything for you but to decide these few. They would say that this is a completely pointless division, that these powers are absurd and that they want to first talk to the person who is first superior and who is first in some way competent that certain civil issues in everyday communication can either answer them or perhaps some difficulties prevail. So I think that the proposal of my colleague Kramaric is, in fact, I would say more than one verbal provocation or legislative provocation. Here he wants us to point out that we have to distribute in this monotypic division in the night, as Hegel said, where all cows are black, so there is no recognition that there are different cities, that there are different environments, that there should be different powers. I think it is indeed one provocation that is more than welcome, although I also know the proposal that will be made by the Government and the State Secretary who announced it, I think that the proposal may be even more balanced and that it may be better suited to the needs of Croatian society today. But unfortunately, that proposal is not in front of us today. If the government has it, then I really don't understand why it didn't come out mainly before the local elections with that proposal. So I think we should really consider accepting this in our first reading until at least this proposal. I'll also say that distancing or diversifying large and smaller cities also has a historical foothold. Here you will find that sometimes, for example, in the territorial administrative division of Austro-Hungarian, there were first, second and third types of cities. So we can say that we can find a historical foothold, but I also have to say that there is one foothold that is certainly more important than the historical one. And that's the life support. This is the fact that if we gave the cities some authority of the state administration we could just resolve those critical points, it narrows its throats in daily traffic between the state administration, public services and citizens who may be burdening Croatia the most today. We're all talking about administrative barriers, for example. The government is already announcing the "one stop shop" and the former government has also announced this. Gentlemen, there's nothing wrong with that. Give the great cities authority so they can issue building permits. That they can take care of urban planning and licensing and you will see that we will immediately reduce, I am convinced and responsibly responsible for the number of pending cases by at least 50%. Why big cities? Especially if they have logistics, human resources, and if you want even some kind of spatial possibility or possibility to reach the reach of the state service, let's say a license service or useful permits. Why couldn't they have that? Why would we not allow this precisely because for every building being built, which may be suspicious of urban, construction, architectural, conservation or some cultural, or simply someone is asking for it, we today cannot give any answer because we neither know nor know, nor know why something is being built, who is building, how is building, under what conditions? So I don't see any reason why we wouldn't let that happen. Secondly, what is very important, ladies and gentlemen, is that I speak to myself quite frankly now, we have to ask ourselves, what is the function of the county in this form? And if we have big cities, why can't we take over some county functions? The function of the county is, let's say, to worry about the county roads. Do you know how to fill the county road management budgets? They charge mostly in the main or largest cities of the county. For example, the budget of the County Road Administration in my county, 60 percent full of people in Varazdin. That's the money we pay in excise fees when we register cars. So I ask you why if we fill that budget with over 60%, then why wouldn't the city in which those citizens live have the right to manage those roads? Third today you have an amazing fact that in a small town quite irrelevant to which you may have state roads, county roads and local or city roads with 10 or 15 thousand inhabitants in Croatia. So you have three roads you know and then, of course, citizens again on all matters of the mayor or mayor because they think they're all roads in the area of the municipality, but he has to answer, first he has to look at what kind of roads is which and then he has to answer to the citizens listen he goes to the state because it's a state road. Or go talk to the county because it's a county road. Well, it's natural life that tells us that all the roads that are Varazdin's are Varazdin's all roads that are in Bjelovar are Belarusian, all in Osijek are cut-offs. And sharing them doesn't make any sense, so let's at least give these great seats to the county, the great cities of power that they can really care and finally personalized responsibility. Let's say, that's when the head of the local self-government unit is responsible for all roads. She's not responsible for anything like this. And finally, I want to say when I'm speaking now as a liberal on local self-government, you know the thought of politics as one German liberal has said is that on average it doesn't matter who the president of the state is, or the prime minister, but first of all, it becomes important to him who his city councilman is, so I think that local democracy is important and that's why I think this law supports the processes of local democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35765	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35766	Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed representative who said the following. I'm quoting. "From everything mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, we have the paralysis of all systems of public service." We don't have public service paralysis in the Republic. To some extent, we can talk about difficulties but public service paralysis is an incorrect assumption not to say in the debate absolutely certainly as an incorrect fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35767	Thank you. Second correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35768	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague first said that Kramaric's proposal was a verbal provocation. It's not verbal because it's written in writing. Another is the incorrect part that some cities do not have any authority. They have cities and now according to the regulations of authority, but some unfortunately don't even carry out what they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35769	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Zdenak Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35770	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Since there was a political debate between colleagues of Czechoko, it is not exactly fellow Czechok that you cannot be a good mayor and responsible under the existing laws. You may as well be a good and responsible chief, the mayor has transferred everything to legal disadvantages. And apparently here you mentioned the constituency chairs. You're sitting on two constituencies, so it looks like you must be missing in one chair, and I assume you know where you are. And today was a good debate, since local elections are ahead of you. And the last quote from a German liberal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35771	Please. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35772	Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Zdenka has injured Article 409 because she has not corrected my claim. Excuse me. Because I didn't say that in the existing law it's not possible to be a good mayor, but I said not to personalize responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35773	Thank you very much. Let's consider everything okay. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, Mr Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35774	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to repeat our familiar views on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS. About the high centralised nature of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the indicators that confirm it. The fact that 14% of all reported revenues is spent an level of units of local self-government of all our counties, all our cities of all our municipalities and 86% of our public income is collected and spent at central state level talking about the lack of development of our local self-government. And of course you can talk about it both declaratively and ideologically and so on, but this is a clear speech and therefore, in world approaches, whether or not a country of developed local self-government is given. If 14% of total income is the income of local self-government units, then that state does not have a developed local self-government. And that state actually does, if that's the criterion of democracy and there they can be, it's a rare thing in terms of which I agree with the predecessor who spoke here. Then it is indeed a criterion for the lack of democracy in a country, so in the Republic of Croatia. Before I refer to this particular law, I would like to say in fact what the state of local self-government is as an introduction to the assessment of this legislative proposal. Croatia today has about 540 units of local self-government. He's got municipalities and he's got cities. There are cities that are in many ways different from the municipalities. Who differ from the municipalities only nominally by name as a sign of some sort of honor, or some kind of history. But in fact, in terms of jurisdiction and real power, we have an almost unique model of local self-government units. Because we didn't differentiate cities from municipalities and, of course, within cities, we didn't distinguish big cities. Nor is this proposal proposed by the Government which is now in the procedure that we will soon have in the second reading also a major contribution to differentiating local self-government which means that their competence, their financial power, is regulated according to some natural needs of local self-government units to their financial power, their size, and so on. We have had the past ten years who knows the number of partial partial solutions, this is one of such solutions and even when these partial solutions are a good question they have given is useful because they bring disorder into the country's legal system as citizens or administrations adapt to these changes they are already changing again. So it's all one completely wrong approach. Croatia is ready for a strong step towards local self-government. This is not a question of financial strength. It is not a question of development. It is only a matter of political consciousness which is strong enough enough to transfer one part of the central government's powers to local self-government units. Croatia is ready for that step, too. That step was done in a shy way a few years ago and instead of continuing to me in this year and a half we actually have just declaring some big changes, forming big bodies. But actually now that the local elections are ahead of us when there's a reform of local self-government that doesn't seem to be. And when local elections pass when local self-government bodies are established according to a new structure, it will be difficult for any government or any parliamentary majority to bear in mind that under such circumstances, when national parliamentary elections are nearing them, they are going to have a major procedure with regard to local self-government units. Therefore, our assessment of the HNS and PGS club remains that, unfortunately, there is nothing in this mandate since the reform of local self-government in our country. We can therefore expect a new, real-life reform of local self-government only out there for new local elections, which means somewhere in four or five years, which, of course, will continue to be lagging behind in relation to Europe, the countries of the Council of Europe. We were in the lower House of the Council of Europe a while ago with our 14%. The European average is 25%. And some countries have as much as 50% of the public revenues spent at the level of local self-government units. We will therefore, in those four and five years, continue to lag behind with all our commissions in this regard. With regard to this proposal, I think the proposal is also partial, but therefore should not be accepted. Our problem isn't three big cities, or if we accept this, a 70-thousand line, then it could be 6, then it would be Zadar, it would be Pula, it would be Big Gorica. But that's not it, that's not it. Our problem, the Croatian problem is to give real authority to cities and that is to a greater number of cities. We had some kind of line before, or demarcation number of 30,000, I guess it's too big. The real problem of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to cities is the following, whether 30 cities should be set up with some 25,000 inhabitants as the basis of our network of local self-government, or if there should be some 50 cities with 15 thousand inhabitants as the basis of a network of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. And that's the real question, not with special positions to single out three big cities. That it is thus shown in fact by a very superficial analysis of the actual competences of the units of local self-government. What these large cities could differ from, therefore, taking over part, part of the county's powers, concerns two very important responsibilities, which is health care in segments of clinical hospital centres, i.e. county hospitals and economic competences. In this regard, however, these cities have no needs, nor can they have a separate health system or separate economic policies. They can only have it as headquarters of larger areas. And so this will not be until the Republic of Croatia has gained larger regions than these today's fragmented counties. It therefore makes no sense to separate these responsibilities especially for these cities, because these responsibilities are so large that they necessarily belong to the county or regional level. All other competences that cities, large cities have belong equally to all cities, not these dwarves, small symbolic cities, but belong to this group of 40, 50 cities that would actually be a drive for the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, which is a fundamental health system issue. This is just as much about Osijek as about Virovitica or Crosses. It's a matter of spatial planning, it's a matter of social care, it's a question of education, basic and secondary education, it's a question of culture and it's an environmental issue. I probably missed something, but all of these responsibilities are equally related to the smaller town, Metković, for example, Biograd na moru, as well as to the middle city like Koprivnica, such as Sibenik and the big city, these, actually three large cities of Osijek, Rijeka and Split. So there's no point in singleing these three big cities out of this whole system of ours. What is the additional problem of these cities, i.e. Croatian local self-government, is local self-government. Local self-government is the problem of these three major cities, such as the problem of an even bigger city, the city of Zagreb, and such as the problem of all our cities over 20 or 30 thousand inhabitants. Local self-government is a further step in the development of local self-government, and it's really rudimentary with us, it almost doesn't exist. If you have fourths in the Zagreb area that are larger than most of our cities, including these five, six cities, and those local districts spend only 2.3% of the total income of the city of Zagreb, then you know that the city of Zagreb is centralized. And just as centralised are these cities of ours, so to speak. Big cities. The purpose of the development of local democracy is not to create a politic development of the Republic of Croatia, a politic structure so that it can stand there, but to be only the first step in the development of local self-government, to bring it down to even smaller cities, to bring it down to all our municipalities, and of course to further development afterwards, which is the development of local self-government. That's the meaning of local democracy, and then that democracy is a local democracy that confirms that one country is democratic, not just these, nominal changes that actually have no real content in them. But this bill also contains some other very difficult provisions, and that was the case. It's first of all a double position of mayor. We've fought hard over the past few years. We have also had constant recommendations from international institutions, which are not important in view of our particular sensitivity, but these have been recommendations of goodwill and good experience to develop the administrative and self-government position of the mayors, so that there is no possible manipulation or imposition of central government interference in those functions of mayors that he has as representative of local self-government units. We managed to separate that, and now that we've succeeded here it is proposed that the mayor be both a representative of the state government, which, of course, raises his independence. We do not have such a well-developed political system that this duality could function without difficulty. And of course, that also raises the inspection dimension that the central government must have in relation to local self-government, the mustache is one and the other, and it certainly is not a good solution. What is also problematic about this, there is no increase in the financial strength of large cities. All of our solutions that we have proposed and which have defiled as proposals or as adopted solutions in this House for the last 12 years have often not had that content, the clear financial responsibility of the units of local self-government. And without it it's all just a mere declaration, it's all just onions and water, because the financial force is a measure of real local democracy, not of what we wrote down in the laws. Especially since it says in our laws that some other laws will decide. This is about an agreement between the county and the city that can be likes or likes, etc. And those agreements aren't a simple thing. It is not easy between the county and the city to conclude an agreement on how jurisdiction will be shared. It's already one of the most unnecessary mines, the burden of this law. And finally, this law suffers the same objection as the Government's bill, and that even half-sensed county as units of local or regional self-government, this bill actually loses that part of its meaning. A county that has 200 thousand inhabitants, and will have a big city that will take over half its population in terms of jurisdiction, the question of whether it makes any sense. So that's at least three reasons why this, with all the reasons I've been talking about, shouldn't be accepted. And finally, one assessment of this law, which is that this law is therefore unnecessary law, that it will only introduce more riots, that it will cloud some questions about the development of local self-government. He's, I'd say, a wizard in heaven or on earth, who's not connected to what's underneath him, so he doesn't have an organic connection to his natural environment, and he doesn't have his own clear place with what's above him. In this case, it would be more county than some kind of unnecessary competition would occur, which could only make the development of local self-government more difficult and functioning. And this law, I think, was written just for the sake of the inhabitants of these three spells in the Republic of Croatia and, as we were against these 20 spells regarding the government's bill of law, the club of representatives of the CNS and the PGS, based on its well-known views on the development of local self-government, opposes the legislative proposal of Mr Zlatko Kramarić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35775	Thank you. Proposer, Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It would be very good if there weren't any warlocks now. You know, this is how it gets the impression, so I'm gonna start with this from the end. I got the impression that actually now everything's working great and that now the spells don't exist. Believe me in this long experience, because I do, in fact, this law should deal with life, it should be provoked to adapt that legal hermeneutics to my life, that is, is it important. It would be great if there was now a relationship between cities, municipalities and counties in the same county. There's no such thing as today. Don't think there's one today, so now there's something going on that's going to be an additional disturbance. It just doesn't work, because life just wants it to not work. I'd like to be denied, it works in that sense when a municipality asks for certain funds from the county, because most of the time our municipalities don't have enough financial resources to be able to even aliminate for that job that's the law, that legal hermeneutics that she gave them. There's a problem. Or maybe they're looking for help to get some Rules of Procedure, some statutes you write 'cause they don't have logistics for it. Dear friends, we're actually constantly just finding out. We find that our local self-government is no good to us, so now whether it is paralyzed or less paralyzed, whether it is centralised or less centralised, we've been finding it for ten years and doing nothing to change the situation. We, and we're going to say here just as declaratively, that the government of the state, i.e. local administration and self-government, is our trom, that it's expensive, that we have this, that the number of municipalities and cities most often formed by volunteering political will, and very little and never that it actually created something life, or that life we usually show as being, flows into political will. Well, we had about 8, 9 municipalities last week that are really just a matter of political volunteerism and nothing else. That's how some of the municipalities became cities too, because that's what we wanted. I'm here, don't get the wrong impression it's an elitist approach. So if I should be a capitalist, I love this little one, I always define Croatia as a country of cities as a long-standing tradition and Dalmatian cities and Slavonian cities and coastal cities have this long tradition, its statutes, its identity. But don't ask me to answer that the state administration hasn't been able to answer for ten years. So certainly both Vinkovci and Brod and County have their own, have their own cultural institutions, but in Osijek is the State Archives, not in Vinkovci State Archives. In Osijek there is a state museum, a national gallery with a national character. The theater. There already in... we assumed that these three places, that these three cities have a special function in general in our political, everyday political and economic life. This is an appeal, this is really an appeal for how to ensure the final smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, because this when we find it and do nothing we are actually working to make Zagreb too big a body with too much power and simply that it will no longer have anyone to feed. And precisely because there are precisely these terrible differences in strength, financial power. So that's why, and that's why we're going financially to try to create new mini centres that they have, which then we can't agree with my colleague Radosha, we can't stop, but then we have to make it possible for the capillaries, that is to say, to bring it down to Vinkovci and Vukovar and Županje, and all of those places around Osijek that also have to get a particularly nuanced status relative to some other settlements. Of course the number can't be the only criterion. Quantity cannot, menus... I will not now mention the name of a place not to insult it, which mechanically grows, which does not actually have the identity of a city that can be known for what reasons, political, economic spreads without actually having any institution that belongs to the city so it's known. But something has to start right now. This is the first one, it's the first clear step we actually want to do, change that perception of the public. Well the public is not interested exactly, she does not perceive the responsibility of the minister, the government, the mayor, the state administration, but exactly who is closest and here if you want to be responsible then you have to enable that some responsibility. It is precisely that certain jobs are exactly where there are possibilities, where there are institutions, where there are logistics, where there are competent people who can service it. So in most of our municipalities there is simply no chamber capable of serving the basic needs of its citizens and that is the problem but simply someone goes up in the electoral system. Well, it's just a tragedy that we electoral system from the level of parliamentary elections are descending down to a place that has a thousand inhabitants so it's nakaradno and then that... there must be 55 or how many parties that are registered in Croatia. Well, that's nakaradic. And then the strength of a party counts as much as the limits will be able to create. That's nakaradic. The electoral system would also have to have exactly and otherwise refer to municipalities of thousands of people or large cities. We can go down with our shoulders and think like this, but we have to be brave about it. There's no point in everyday life in some small place in introducing elements of high policy that have nothing to do with... And that's to deal with... infrastructures of what actually belongs to health care, social welfare, public lighting, etc. etc. And that's why I say this is a provocation and I don't know what to call it otherwise. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, that they are suffering, that they can endure complaints, but I'm telling you, they are when it comes to legal hermeneutics. Hermeneutics as well as any hermeneutics as well as legal cloud problems. Well, that certainly needs to be worked out, but it's wrong if the original premise is that it's worked out now, and that's where I disagree. Of course this law, I'm not legal, I'm not an expert in law. I also buy advice at the end, but I say this law, the bill has written life and years of experience that it aims to free the Republic of Croatia from this Zagreb evenly, to relieve these unnecessary political tensions, and to allow these traditional centres, historical centres such as Osijek, Split and Rijeka, until the 1990s, there was a connection between the so-called so-called ". Ross, if I'm not mistaken, that's what it was called, the River-Osjek-Split which means then precisely because it was, not because it was what someone wanted but what the needs were. That interesting connection. So we have one national association of cities and municipalities. Well, that's funny. The European Charter of Local Self-Government allows us to have more. Bulgaria has 5.6. We have to, now we have to connect interestingly and not that there is, you know how they choose, then the National Association has, says, submitted a certain bill where you have majorization, where you just have this fact that we're actually discussing the wrong things. That's why, that's the idea, that this concave monotypic approach would be replaced by a political approach, that these nuances be introduced, that they become legitimate. If they weren't in the function of no breaking, and this is really there, so there are officials that we pay to actually write us a very high-quality bill that we're going to discuss here. And not that it's actually the MPs who are going to promote, who are going to do it. Of course, our legal and other knowledge is not perfect and that there may also be certain awkwardness that I allow. But it's not elitism, it's not just insistence on these three cities, it's something to start with. And that is exactly what is said, to expect a set of laws that will regulate this very important issue. But not come back again, so when national and parliamentary elections come that we will promise a radical reform of local self-government and administration, and when that comes then, here, so now I do, too, we have elections in about a month. We're actually getting into the same thing again, and we're actually going to have everything again, we're going to face all these problems that we've been facing so far, and again you're going to have that thing completely wrong. And I'm saying, man can't be, or take responsibility for himself, and in a way he can't be allowed to defend them in the right way. And not only, in fact, that you have criticism about the city's prospects, because of the urban plans that you end up with... You don't bring it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's really, I must admit, one frustrating and traumatic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35777	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35778	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Kramaric said that there is an impression that there are no spells now. From what has been said here for the past hour, such an impression could not be created. Chards in Croatia, the local, local system of Croatian local self-government exist, but we don't need three other great wizards. Not in heaven or on earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35779	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Cain's turn on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35780	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I'm a little surprised that someone is fighting for the powers of the county as Mr. Kramarić does, and Mr. Kramarić and I know that the counties have 2, 3 times less financial potential than Croatian cities. And when the property is in the wake of the county, they can't compare to the cities at all. The county literally has nothing. Neither have square meters of agricultural land, nor have square meters of forest, construction, etc., touristic, no apartment, business space and not to count further. Even the County of Istria has all its offices in rented city spaces. At least that's what cities have. So they have some sort of, what would you call, material infrastructure. However, this proposal is as if it was written before 2000, when the counties had some administrative powers. But after 2000, there was an additional administrative centralization so that today, let's say, the mayor of one big city, Mr Kramarić, whom I want every success in the elections now, can't have an impact on the mothermaker either. It is also true that there was a mild fiscal decentralisation beyond 2001. Decentralised funds for education, health care, social services, which is once again in the working legal authority of the county and cities, except that in health care a huge burden has been transferred to the counties that are the founders of general hospitals, and in fact they have no authority over them. They have, exactly, chosen the first man, but what is worth to you when, for example, the budget of the Istrian County is 200 million kuna and general hospitals in Pula 220 million kuna. Now when, say, a county with 200 million kunas takes care of a hospital with a thousand 100 employees and a budget of 220 million kuna? Here, let's say the county would be very happy to give up that burden in favour of the cities. However, the counties and cities at this time have 100% the same powers or almost 100% the same powers. Great cities, for example, under this new Law on Spatial Planning, which was adopted before, I don't know, 10 days or 15 days, will also receive jobs of urbanism and local permits and the issue of building permits. The same as the counties in their own self-rule that they will also now receive, but unfortunately neither of them will receive any means to behave in these state budget transactions that has been fully burdened by the state budget so far. So much this Law was far more relevant, which was proposed there in 97, than it is today. What is necessary to us, however, and I agree that the status of a big city should be regulated, so let's say this over 100,000 inhabitants, but why not let's say 50 or 60 such as Pula, Velika Gorica, etc. It is seen about, in the necessity of real decentralisation, and to find a real place for the county in that structure of local self-government. First of all, let's try to define what the county is already. What should they do, what is their fiscal potential? It can't, I mean it can, it's nice to, let's say, the budget of the City of Poreč is 200 million kuna and the budget of the County of Istria. Now look at the budgets of our Croatian counties. Istria has a budget, I know that, 200 million kuna. It's not like there's a bigger coastal-goran county. There's no bigger, I'm sure, not even Osijek-Baranja, one Lika-Senjska may have 100 million kuna, if there's at all 100 million kuna in this annual budget. And I think that's a fundamental problem. We can't ask someone to do something now, not give them the chance to do some work. At this time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has 85% of the so-called consolidated consumption. That's what Jozo Radosh was talking about. The city of Zagreb has 5.5%. Cities and municipalities with something above 8%, there are these big cities. Countys in that total mass at this time are participating at below 2%. So, fiscally, these funds are collected in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that says that Croatia is simply mature, so to speak, when local self-government is due for a big improvement. It is simply no longer possible, this burden can no longer be borne by the government or the county, and Kramarić probably rightly claims not even these great cities such as Osijek, Rijeka or Split. Either we decentralize Croatia or the government will have huge problems the next day, as it already has today, the whole country, because as we set out to do, Zagreb will literally suck Croatia under quotes. Both economically and financially and demographically. It is over 50% economic capacity of the Republic of Croatia, financially 90% of the capacity of the Republic of Croatia, I almost do not know, a quarter of Croatia. Now, when we refer to these analyses about the movement of the population, the movement of capital, the headquarters of large companies, the headquarters of banks, then we actually see that Zagreb, more precisely the policy of centralisation, because no one has anything against Zagreb, contributed to the fact that, apart from Zagreb at this time and Istria, all other parts of Croatia have a smaller gross social product per capital than the Croatian average. If they had fewer inhabitants in 2001 than they had in 91, it is clear that down here in Istria it is not the result of growth but simply demographic movements, Croatia's unemployment is 19% only in Zagreb and Istria is somewhere between 7% and 8%. According to what we do, it's hard to say but I keep pointing out the way of the local structure that the constitution of 74 knew, it's not any nostalgia could be a hard ideal and the most centralised states in the world, let alone Croatia that has such a tradition of this constitution, exactly never greater self than it is today gentlemen and between that western part of the Republic of Croatia and the eastern part of Croatia, and the differences just once need to be covered, the future can't be tomorrow this country that everyone goes towards Zagreb or I don't know down towards Poreč, so we have a situation that in 2001 one Poreč had more voters than a few years before the inhabitants, which we do. The capital obviously does not want to attract from the outside, decentralize Croatia we will not, run it obviously we cannot, we can go to the elections clearly but what we will get because every 6 months this country goes into elections, not even the European Union has been our target lately, so we have tried everything in this country except to decentralisation Croatia. If the solution is to introduce a big city, then let it be, but I think today is at this stage, and here I would agree with Mr. Radosha the fundamental problem of fiscal decentralisation and another which I would like to add to how to come up with the role of the county. Regionalising Croatia as many IDS as it was for the obvious that we can't reach consensus would come to express ourselves, revolutions, to abolish the municipalities of these 570 I don't know how many of them there are with cities, we can't, either, why, because there would be a riot on the ground, therefore, it is possible that the government and local self-government agree on what and what jobs the government will do and will do to the local self-government. However, you will also have one resistance, for who today will tell someone in a ministry 1/5 or - - people should go home if these jobs are taken over by the cities or the county. What would happen in Croatia? In the ministry, all of them, in the counties, cities and municipalities, would be increased by 1/3 or Ö. Which would only be if someone came and suggested, and I think it would be good to reduce these big differences, that in these large cities, for example Osijek, Rijeka, Split is dislocated by one ministry because I repeat, we will really face Zagreb to suck up the rest of Croatia. None of us have anything against Zagreb, we all love this town, but I want to say over 90% so-called. public waste consumption or waste is available from this centre, and 10% is waste on this so-called. Periphery. I know that even that capital has its logic, it simply moves to Zagreb, even one Poreč Riviera a large tourist enterprise for Croatian opportunities is no longer based in Poreč but in Zagreb, which will say that the profit tax is no longer paid to the city of Poreč, the county of Istria, but the city of Zagreb. The banks that everyone has here should not be used up words, but when Croatian authorities can no longer influence it then at least try to decentralise the Republic of Croatia. And the other one without local self-government, more specifically without employees where we have these large public state-owned companies, does not privatise the remaining Croatian companies, it is now mentioned that by the end of the year one Pula Oilman should be privatised. So instead of the government thinking about how to privatize the oil, let that idea be a little dislocated, it would be better for the government to force the management of the oil company to think about how to save Viktor Lenac and let the government continue to resuscitate the other shipyards, not that all energy is now directed at how and who will privatise this shipyard. In my opinion, the most controversial article of this 8th proposal is the Law, which states in paragraph 2 and 4, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can give orders to the mayor in the conduct of the affairs of the state administration, and then the mayor, if he does not comply with these orders, will appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the Commissioner of State Administration in the big city on the proposal of the Minister of Public Administration, etc. First of all, I don't like the idea of an order myself, it may require him to correct something, some irregularity through administrative supervision, he can suspend the act from execution, I clearly despise the Commissioner, but does that mean when the commissioner comes to disband the council or the executive body? One is the Council's act, the other is these chieftains. Third, what is this duality of the Commissioner versus the Executive Body if it is not a matter of disbanding, etc. So, for the end of what to say, why doesn't this law specify any public new income that would go towards big cities, why doesn't it go into the financial dimension of the whole story, because eventually it's the financial capacity of a particular municipality, city and county, because if you have money, then you'll be successful both the mayor and the mayor and the minister of any resort, if you don't have it, then you'll be a failure. Article 15 states that for the tasks of the state administration carried out by large cities, funds are provided in the state budget, it is absolutely logical norm only I cannot understand that urban, planning, localisation, construction, etc. are now being transferred. All the way to the county, meaning in that self-rule, plus the county seats, that's what these big cities are, and that the state didn't carry on that basis any kuna of some new income to that whole, means the power that, money not and for the end I mean once again I'm going to say, today 2005, there's no difference between counties and so on. Big cities like it was there until 97. except the county has two, three times less budgets than the big cities but anyway I did let the law go to another reading, IDS will vote for it but let's not rebuild the community of municipalities, i.e.. Some macro-region against which IDS will absolutely be against, but the great city is clearly one, the communities of the municipalities are second, the regions should clearly recognise Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia and some macro-region or community of municipalities that we had there in the 1990s I don't think it will start or help Croatia at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35781	Thank you very much. At 11:57, it's time for a single application on this point. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, the first respected representative of Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35782	Your Honor, Mr. President, a distinguished colleague has said two incorrect allegations in my court. The first is quoted as saying, "The County has no influence on the work of county hospitals." It's the opposite. The County as a unit of regional or regional self-government has a direct impact on the work of county hospitals in two segments and in administrative and management terms and in the financial sense through the appointment of administrative councils, the possibility of selecting management people, the people who will run the county hospital, but not only that, but also the system of financing from capital investments, programmes and everything else, so the county has a crucial role in the sense of leading under the quotes "the hospital policy", and then has an impact, and not as you have incorrectly stated that it has no influence. And the second correction to the incorrect quote is next. A respected colleague said that the 74th Constitution, I quote: "It is not a fact, it is an ideal constitutional structure for all countries and Croatia as well.". That's incorrect, even when it comes to local self-government. No, allow me, incorrectly. This constitution rested on social property, the totalitarian system of decision-making, joint work and the definition of the Communist Party or the Communist Union, as an avant-garde of all development through the so-called system. Tentralism, so as such, cannot in itself be any ideal to the system, the parliamentary system of the countries, let's say Western democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35783	Okay, thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35784	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Cain incorrectly claimed that the unemployment rate in the city of Zagreb was 7-8%. Namely, it is an incorrect statistical data, i.e. a ticative data, because we know that many have given up the intervention of the Croatian Employment Service, and that this has been achieved by administrative measures because the one who does not report for a month is immediately deleted and does not normally seek employment through the Croatian Institute because he knows that he cannot get it. It's an incorrect piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35785	Thank you. And third, honourable representative Marin Jurjevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35786	Dear Mr. President, colleague Cain incorrectly said there was no difference between county and so on. big cities, probably thinking of the big cities now that exist, except that the county had a smaller budget. That's not true! Split as a big city, so the city over 100,000, 200 thousand inhabitants have no jurisdiction over public maritime goods, that's most of its coast, so the Split Riviera, etc., that I don't speak now, and the county, or the state, has. And that, therefore, is not that they are not even but that is a great handicap that I will talk about later in the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35787	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35788	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Central Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As far as this proposal for a law on large cities is concerned, the Croatian Party's right club can support the proposal to regulate the position of large cities legally compared to municipalities and smaller cities. The Law would arrange for large cities to take over large jobs along with those set out by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, so that they can take over and carry out certain tasks from the jurisdiction and part-round of state administrations currently operating in certain counties. In doing so, I initially think of various offices for performing and giving local and construction permits, concessions, and various entrepreneurial development projects that are now in the jurisdiction of the county offices. This proposal provides for a large city in its field to carry out the tasks which have been arranged and established by the Special Law on Units of Local Self-Government, which are also within the jurisdiction of the county, or regional self-government. The draft law does not define exactly what jobs these are because large cities cannot take over all matters from the jurisdiction of the state administration and the county, because then they could simply remove certain counties. The law also stipulates that the large city and the county co-operate to address issues of common interest. These forms of cooperation are not also regulated and defined by this proposal for a law, since it is not a specific part of the law and obligations, so it is difficult to determine the forms of cooperation itself. The proposal for this Law also provides that a large city for self-government jobs is benefiting from income from its own sources, from common taxes, and from grants from the state budget, and all of these revenues are, in fact, the funds of the budget of this Law of the Great City, to which the city, in its own part, has its own resources. It is visible to this proposal that there is no difference here than what is already prescribed by the current, applicable Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. It is proposed, and large cities are cities that have over 100,000 inhabitants. Then why do such a Law on Great Cities, let's simply edit the Law like the Law on the City of Zagreb, let's pass the Law on the City of Osijek, Rijeka and Split. Therefore, consideration should be given to the criteria of determining what a large city is, whether it is 100,000 inhabitants or whether it would be better and better quality to make it smaller. In the Club of the Croatian Party of Rights, we hold that the proposal of 100,000 is too large because in that case it could be passed as I said the Law on Great Cities and simply listed and named in the Law. The idea of passing such a law is what we believe to be good, and we at the Croatian Party of Rights Club will support it. But we also point to the great shortcomings of this Law. The Croatian party's rights club, supporting this idea, hopes that all these shortcomings will be corrected and corrected by second reading. Namely, I'll say that this idea of passing the Law on Great Cities is good, but it's weak, it's pretty poorly worked out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35789	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35790	Thank you, Mr. President. This Proposal for a Law on Great Cities as well as almost all similar laws governing the detour and functioning, and even the powers of units of local self-government actually open here with us the eternal theme of the state government's relationship against the local self-government unit. And it's really not that we're just getting the impression but we saw it in the whole legislative package that the government has proposed and discussed and voted on, more or less successfully last week, that the state is actually afraid of the forces of local self-government units. This is what you can see for the best, and even in this attempt to decentralize certain assets, businesses, but not to go into decentralisation of funds. And then it's really just stories, not at the level of the declaration, not at the charter. It also seems to me that the proposer of this Law on Great Cities Mr. Our colleague Zlatko Kramarić is in a certain dissrepancy between what he said and what should be the intensity of this proposal for a law on large cities in relation to what is really being promoted as the provisions of this Law. First of all, it should be noted and for the sake of the public very clearly and loudly, that these are proposed to be only large cities over 100,000 inhabitants under the bill itself, and then to allow cities above 70 thousand inhabitants, but then individually and individually by Parliament's decision. First of all, we need to establish that Croatia is a small country, and 100 thousand inhabitants, for one place, are large in European and world contexts. So just a limit to 100,000 inhabitants to make the city a big city, I find absolutely inappropriate in our terms. However, I'm very close to that 30 or possibly 40,000 people, but that number itself is not dominant. And you shouldn't be too good. On the contrary, it is precisely financial opportunities but then with the will of the state to decentralise the funds. Let's just remember that first major decentralisation step during the coalition government where many have rightly had fears, especially those who ran local self-government units, cities about decentralisation of education. How's that gonna work? However, these funds were also decentralised and we see that this is very, very successful and implemented. Therefore, there is no need to fear decentralisation of powers, but only then does decentralisation of funds if we really want units of local self-government to do that job and legal task. But the real question is why the state still doesn't have such a serious one, it doesn't show one reality in this respect. What's she afraid of? When it's clear that she's busy with business, that despite her announcements and some attempts to make her state-owned, her administration is efficient, that she simply can't answer that moment anymore. And it is no longer just a matter of reorganisation and better organisation of state administration than simply by the nature of things it is not possible to solve affairs, state affairs in an efficient way if they take place and if they live they impose them right where they live, where citizens need it in local self-government units. So regardless of what the state services do in areas or in counties. It just doesn't work. Because then it's hard. And control their efficiency because they are still far from the center. And that is why there is an absolute ineffectiveness of this business that is in agreement with all those who have said there is no doubt more or less successful units of local self-government, these jobs would be far, far more efficient and faster. And in a very short time, they would reduce the number of backlogs in our state administration, and then the state would concentrate its forces on what in no way comes out of the question of decentralisation of funds. It's just, these jobs, it's kind of like moving us to Zagreb. First of all, these are huge funds and absolute one ineffectiveness. So, and what, she, those jobs that we just passed, last week we voted on the detour and the jobs and expanded the business to cities did not therefore, these cities did not receive funds. And the question is, how successful are they going to be then, and why is that norm, a provision, does it make sense? Especially when we didn't distinguish jobs between cities and county. That's why I think that's exactly what this bill is all about. But as the promoter said, this was one initiative as he says, one provocation that finally talks, not only to discuss, but to show the government its will to do these jobs because they are unnecessary, because it has proved absolutely ineffective and because it cannot do them with a much more successful administration and because these jobs simply imposes life on cities to solve them. However, as the proposer predicted, which would be great cities would turn out to be essentially cities with a millennium tradition on our coast, Dalmatia, would essentially become less important to our sea. That, in that sense, we cannot accept it at all. Me personally. Thus, this Law would have made great sense in the sense that, as the proposer presented it, this number of 100,000 inhabitants was reduced to 30 possibly 40,000 inhabitants. This corresponds at the end of both size and number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. There were also speeches here, and it should always be pointed out that political will itself, or where a certain political structure estimates that it is its own, that its electoral foothold should finally be closed and solid criteria created. What are the criteria? First of all, not only the number of inhabitants but also the financial powers and abilities of a particular unit of local self-government that it is actually called to become a city, to become a big city. And once again, everything is pointless unless the state decentralizes the funds. It is not possible, then, that even this shy attempt that the state has extended its powers to cities, larger cities of 30 or 40,000 inhabitants, will become truly immaterial. And as the "Torfil" said in the local self-government unit lies the power of free cities. It is widely believed to be a local self-government unit everywhere, that local self-government is the fourth branch of government. So I think that our citizens too, that life has simply imposed more on such a situation where the state can neither hesitate to start, not only with the broad decentralisation of not only jobs but first of all and the means, and if it does so in such a way, it manifests that it does so in this regard and thinks so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35791	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zgrebec. She's gone, she's losing her word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's also gone, he's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see this proposal by my colleague Kramaric as a moving and sympathetic attempt to bring order into the problem that no doubt exists in Croatia. Mr. Kramaric is absolutely right when he says that local self-government is wrong, that we are all aware of that. The only thing nobody's doing is doing nothing. The diagnosis is correct, I'm not and I'm not sure it's therapy, I'm not sure the therapy is correct. It is quite clear that we need a comprehensive, broad reorganisation of local self-government. Liebek needs to be unbuttoned in order to re-button it because we won't be able to get it online. And this bill of law is a kind of crossover of the wrongly-knited Liebek. Wherever we analyze the operation of local self-government, we find illogicalness. Here's one of them Mr. Caine mentioned here. Istria County has a budget of 200 million kuna, and the General Hospital in Pula I think he said 220 million kuna. Is it normal to ask whether our country is not big, it's not small, but it's not particularly big if it needs 20 counties at all? What does a county that has less budget than the budget of an institution in it do? What are the possibilities of such a county government? I, of course, are not comfortable especially with the government if I went to solve this, e.g. In a way to establish that Croatia may be enough 4 or 5 regions. Which would have a county position today. They've taken over their functions. 'Cause of course that means a big problem then a lot of mayors disappear, so under-supervised, so a lot of people are out of work, so a lot of people are out of office. But one day we'll have to answer that question, this government, some other government. This assembly of Parliaments, some other assembly of Parliaments. Only this condition won't last too long because it costs too much. The other one is completely inefficient in one piece. And the third one is constantly producing some new problems. 550 municipalities and cities. So today I've asked a parliamentary question written to Minister Shuker to answer how many of these units of local self-government are actually making their own incomes so that they can live on their own. And how many are being drawn from the state budget from the Alignment Fund. Well, it doesn't have to be that financial criterion alone. He doesn't have to be the only one. The status of the city cannot be lifted by Pag because its financial power or population is falling. But in order for the financial factor to come more into consideration when considering the formation of the state unit of local self-government, that is clear to all. It's clear to everyone. Only no one's doing anything to fix it. The deception is clear that we encourage local self-government through the continued establishment of new units. And it's been doing it for years, it's not decentralisation. What this decentralisation is about if some new poor little community can't live at all. So what made us make life more quality to those citizens there and by which we strengthened their right to self-government when they didn't have the money to carry out that self-government. They don't. It's a pure flossula. And it's usually done because of it either as an electoral engineering or because there's someone there counting on him to be the head of that community. Then we constantly drop jobs from year to year to local self-government. These fire departments, these hospitals, these schools, no one decentralizes those funds to a sufficient extent. And then it's all done under the company of decentralisation and fostering local self-government. Well, it's not encouraging it's suffocating local self-government. The main problem may have been that Mr Kramaric well noticed one uniformed approach to it. It's a top-notch uniform approach. We say the municipality and then the municipality has some authority to have some business and not every municipality is equal. It's not. That approach should be more selective. The city isn't every city equal. Mr. Kramaric is right. No, we can't have equal access to every city. But when we talk about cities in cities, then we now have ordinary and large, and now the question is whether a large 30,000 or 100,000 inhabitants. And it's all expensive also one arbitral approach. You know, we don't have a real excuse when we say why 100 grand and then, exceptionally, 70 to get inside, I don't know Zadar, it doesn't if it seems quite arbitrary. I understand Mr. Kramaric as mayor of Osijek. To try to fight to gain the status of his city such a great city. But I think we should approach it a little more systematically anyway. The way the government behaves. The government is constantly trying to get rid of obligations as much as possible. And keep the money as much as possible. It means she spends as little on local self-government as possible, and she has as little on her own as possible in that local self-government. And that's what the government does all the time. What else is he trying to do to the government? He's trying to keep the government in power. So it's not decentralisation, it's centralizing the system. Here, the government even suggested that draft new units or border crossings could not hold a debate in Parliament at all. And be careful that's Parliament's jurisdiction. If the government doesn't give a previous opinion. The subject cannot come to the Assembly for discussion. It's a question at all whether it's from the aspect of the Constitution whether it might pass. But what the government, the government, is constantly trying to show, is a constant effort to keep that thing in its hands and to arbitration this one can't. And that way somehow tries to get for himself some political maybe political points ahead of these or those choices. There was a lot of talk here about the castle of Zagreb. The Zagreb has a rich budget and will vacuum everyone else. Look Zagreb is one quarter of the population and one third of the economy in Croatia. And that is why Zagreb or more than one third and that is why Zagreb is rich. Not because he legally has this or that status. And won't Osijek or I don't know Split will become rich if we now declare them great cities and give the status of the one who has Zagreb. And the position of the county. That's not why they're gonna do it. You know the capital goes where it goes, goes where it can fertilize more, the store goes where it can sell more. It makes perfect sense. This can't be solved by legal solutions, especially these. That's why I think this is one call to the government. Maybe the whole assembly. The parties may consider all the problems stemming from the bad solutions in local self-government as part of some interparty agreement. They need to be dealt with, there's no point in behaving in the ear, burying the head and the sand and leaving it to be handled by someone else. And to find some systematic solution that would answer at least some of these key questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35793	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is fellow MP Krunoslav Markovovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35794	Thank you, Madam President. Well, here we talked a lot about the diversity of cities and municipalities and the fact that there is no logic that the smallest municipality or small town has the exact same rights as for our opportunities mega cities large cities except Zagreb as I do not know Split, Osijek. And I'm sure there's a series of things to do here. It's also true we heard in the debate that one part and the cities that have opportunities did not take advantage of all that the law gave them. And you should look at in that analysis a little bit who he used, who he didn't, why he didn't, and the fact that often there's a problem and finance, and of that he's most likely moving towards making decisions. We're talking about authority, and now I'm reading here the proposer says the big city has the power of the county. Which means, if we still establish three, four, five cities, we'll have so many more counties. 100,000 inhabitants must be too many for us for the big city. And I think we should go a lot lower than that, but we can all decide together. I'm asking a question here what happens when a city on this proposal becomes a big city. What about those satellite towns and the municipalities around him? Namely, if the city takes over certain services, and even here in this proposal we need the county and give the city space. What about all these small towns and services that have to work for them? So in one room there will be the same service of the great city, and in the other room immediately next door there will be services which, clearly, will have to work for small towns and small municipalities around them. So it's here in my opinion quite unspeakable. Then we heard from the promoter, local self-government is a trom, slow. And that's from case to case. I can give an example, I also often mention my municipalities where there are 11 employees without a municipal company, without universities and such, who are very, very effective, excellent everything works because we solved concessions one example, right. So about the trombone, the trombone is a relative term. I know that parallel towns that have fewer residents have three times as many employees, so it may be more difficult for them to solve things than it is for us. If we're talking about tromility, I think the three counties are bigger, because everything we need there or what our residents need to solve there is being resolved much slower. Here it should also be resolved not to come, some things, that there are no problems such as in the city of Zagreb where the City of Zagreb is outsmarted with the Ministry of Spatial Planning which rightly, therefore, we must resolve the powers, we must very, very well define them because later it will prove bad. Here's to not repeating everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35795	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next is fellow MP Frano Piploic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. Next is counterpart Mario Zubovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35796	Dear Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Discussing the proposal for a bill on the large cities of the proposings of Mr Kramaric, I came to the conclusion that this proposal for a law was written quite wrongly and quite unarranged. It is probably written for the purpose of the upcoming local elections. As well as known to the promoter, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which passed the first reading and which in each respect better resolves the issue of large cities, financing and the affairs of supervision of the laws of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. This bill is unacceptable for several reasons. First, the criteria for obtaining the city's status towards the proposer would be given to cities that have more than 100,000 inhabitants, or cities that have more than 70,000 inhabitants. These cities would include the city of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. And only in one more city could that status be recognised and that's the city of Zadar. As the Government said in its opinion, the criterion of 100,000 inhabitants and 70,000 inhabitants is too high for our opportunities, so in the Republic of Croatia, it would become only four major cities compared to 123 cities and 20 or 20 cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants. In the Government's Proposal for a Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the criteria for obtaining the status of a large city descends to cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants. This can be seen in particular in Articles 4 and 7. A bill of law. Secondly, this bill does not specify and discuss which business would be in the large city area, but we are saying that these are the jobs of the self-government district of the city and of the county. Third, this proposal provides for all transactions which are now in the jurisdiction of the State Administration Office in the counties to be entrusted to large city administrative bodies and which do not result from Article 116(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia according to which the provisions of the units of local and regional self-government can be entrusted with certain tasks. In this regard, a whole series of questions and doubts are raised, e.g. in order to carry out the tasks of supervision of the legality of the general acts of the representative bodies of local and regional self-government, inspection operations and a whole series of other tasks for which the offices of the state administration in the county are now in charge. Fourthly, as stated in the Government's opinion, there are no clearly defined sources of funding for big city businesses because this Bill proposal needs to be precise, not indicatively specific, which sources of funds will be used to finance transactions in the self-government part of the city, and which to carry out the tasks of the state administration. The application of this legislative proposal would require significant additional resources from the state budget and not evaluated in accordance with Article 7. Budget law. Since the detour or source of funding for large cities has not been clearly established, this in connection with the adoption of the proposed law on large cities could also lead to additional burdens and an increase in the obligations of citizens. I suggest that this law be not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35797	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is counterpart Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35798	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I support any debate on the subject of large cities, as I support the adoption of a law that would adequately settle this issue. I will, for example, take Split City, from which I come to try to explain what is not good so far and is not logical. So Split is a big city, it has over 200 thousand inhabitants. It's a port city, it's the third port in the Mediterranean by the number of passengers who, therefore, pass through it. Last year, 3 million passengers passed through Split, these and those passengers. So 150 cruises were, only they brought about 220 thousand tourists, etc. And you see, therefore, Split feels like a port city and when you come to Split, you first see that port. And you see, there's a lot of illogicalness that Split doesn't really manage in the right way with that port, because the port administration is not in the city's jurisdiction. The Port Authority is in the jurisdiction of the State. It's illogical. It's something that's unreasonable. If Vera Cruz, Liverpool, Rotterdam, Genoa, etc. All these port cities known to have port administrations that are city authorities, so it would be logical that Split, Rijeka, I don't know, Ploče, doesn't matter at all,... Also or Osijek, here's what Kramarić says, but now I'm talking about Split about the sea, about cities at sea, so... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They've got a river. They've got little lights. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, it's just that it's illogical for us to get big city status without, say, getting port management. It would be illogical for Split to gain the status of a big city without mastering the public maritime good, and that means even the Split coast. It would be illogical for Split to get the status of a big city without having jurisdiction at Diocletian's palace, as it is not until the end, because the laws that regulate it regulate it in a different way. It would be illogical if Split had big city status without Marian being in his jurisdiction. And you see, the new Amendment to the Nature Protection Act says that it will not be in the jurisdiction of the city, but we will have to request permission from the county, or state, if they do, etc. Now there is, therefore, a public institution in the Park forest Marjan, because we fought it in the previous Assembly, now it seems to be doing so too. So from the symbols of the city, such as the Split Riviera, onion, such as Marjan as this core is historic, it turns out that the city has no jurisdiction over it. So what do we need the status of a big city if you don't give it to us? So what I'm saying is it's not enough declarative to change something, it's enough, it's actually enough to give these cities master over what their essence does, if you want what their symbols are. And I won't talk about the port, the port is a basic engine and a driver for the future development of the city of Split. So the urban port project that is, and this port and northern port are actually two ports that make up one whole again. But if the city has no jurisdiction over it then for the crazy effort of our singers, it's for the crazy one, it's just an empty song, these are empty words. Therefore, this law and the amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government offered by the Government will be empty letter on paper if you do this, specifically I am talking about Split and other cities in charge of these cities to decide on it, and not us if we are working in Split now, there Matejuskko is one famous part of Split's port related to the late Miljenko Smoj, etc. There's a project going on there now, but in order for us to do it, we had to fall on our knees, pray here and there, ask permission from this and that. The city couldn't. It was not the city council's decision to do so autonomously but we had to pray to the county, the state, etc. to allow us in our city on one of the biggest symbols of the city to do something with your money. That's not good. What do you need the Big City Act if you can't decide for yourself if the Split City Council doesn't decide. That's why I'm talking about it, and I don't like that article of article 8 or this proposal where the government says it can give the mayor orders. This is, of course, such a formulation that no one will like in any city or city if you give him that status and you have one who is in charge of listening when orders will arrive from Zagreb from the government. I don't think that's a good way to formulate at least he doesn't know what he meant when he said it like this. But taking orders seems to me like military terminology, and it has nothing to do with local self-government or the good administration of any kind. And there's something else I need to say. I prefer the solution offered by the government, let me be in opposition and the HDZ is in power. As for the size of cities that would get the status of a big city. I'll only talk about cities at sea again. It is inconceivable for me that Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, Pula would not have that status if they had already assigned it. Zadar could be after this, but if it wasn't for automatism by law, it would be debated at the Parliament whether we should give it to him or not. To a large extent, it's absurd knowing everything that Zadar is, what he was and what he's going to be in this country. But even for these other cities, it seems to me that somehow, it seems to me that someone said well then, then it would be the law of Split, Osijek, Rijeka and what I know. It seems to me that the government has given me a better solution than what the promoter is giving here. I mean, the bottom line is, I don't want to be any longer, because we talked a lot about this when we discussed the amendment and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government that the government gave in the first reading. Indeed, if we want the great cities to be big and to be the engine of Croatia's development, then let them rule what is in their territory. The best people know where they live how they manage, they won't know what they're doing for themselves. You see, unlike what is usually thought, Split has a very positive trend today in some global indicators, coverage, another city is on export to Croatia behind Zagreb, but in its structure imports-exports, imports are covered with 61%, exports, while the average in Croatia is 29%, and that is even when you look at that structure then in Split is better than in Zagreb. It's a very positive trend. We have seven largest regional Dalmatian companies based in the city, etc. And on the other hand, you see you are powerless to arrange the Split Riviera in the right way when your south is broken. We throw these illogicalities out and it won't matter who suggested it, but it will be important to make the right proposal, and I am in favour of any discussion of this proposal or that government's to come up with the right solution and then we will all probably vote it in the name of reason together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35799	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have two replicas. He is the first representative of Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35800	I will use the first part of Madam Vice President, the replicas related to the alleged distinguished colleague Jurjevic, as orders are military terminology. Orders are not military terminology if they refer to the Croatian army because in Croatian military terminology they speak of orders, orders, directives. So that's an incorrect quote. Secondly, I agree with what Honorable counterpart Jurjevic said about the town of Split and the fact that he has a port and that the normal city of Split as such should have more jurisdiction over the editing of all these things especially because of the fact that it is a big city. But on the other hand, I am now looking at the Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia, which Mr. Jurjevic offered your party, and in this law you have no say about what you're saying but that you are going to this part of the coast guard, that it is the government agency and that all the other bodies within it are an integral part of this government agency. So be consistent, and first of all turn it into your laws, and then you say something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35801	Thank you very much. You have the right to respond to the replica of your colleague, Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35802	As far as military terminology is concerned, there's really a fellow Pero far away... from me by what he used to do and what he probably does today. ... [[You don't understand.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But an order. Order. Call whatever you want, I don't know, but it doesn't seem right to enter the law, so the government can give the mayor orders. That's my opinion. Let's call it different, and where that comes from, what I know. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, first of all, it's not really about the same thing. I'm talking about port management, let's say the Split city port project is one of the main projects. The Coast Guard is something else, and it has something to do with something called Earth's security, something that was. Whether it would be the ministry, it was the idea that the ministry would therefore be dealing with the military's problems, so that the ministry would do so, whether the police, the military, etc. It's something else. So be careful it's not in the same rank of trouble really. When I was talking about this, I was talking about the port administration and the project and the experience that it is in other countries, so it's not very comparable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35803	Thank you. The next replica is Bytunac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35804	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I replicate my colleague Jurjevic in that part, which is more of a principled nature, where he is in some way strictly pulling the borders from one side of the cities and municipalities and on the other side of the state as such. De facto, I believe that such a single line, a strict line cannot be drawn and that there is one interaction between the state and the units of local self-government, so when it comes to the city of Split, no matter what the maritime good is, when it comes to the port, I think there are ways that it is de facto in life so that the city of Split can have influence, and certainly this new proposal, I don't mean this particular proposal, but by the government proposal that we had in our first reading, it will certainly be units of local self-government. So those cities that fall within a circle of larger cities, big cities have even greater powers. In any case, in the other part, they can get closer to his thinking, but I'm saying, we can't draw a strict line from one side, and even put it as a sign, in the light of some contradiction when it comes to cities on one side, or municipalities and state, of the state administration as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35805	Thank you. Replication response, representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35806	So I could agree that no, I can't draw strict lines of some boundaries, God forbid, between cities, municipalities, county, state. That's clear. I don't even know Split as a city, but everything that's gravitating to Split, I feel like a wide area, let's call it, I don't even know how, along the coast from the marina to behind Omis, there's one connection of that kind that puts us all in one logic of common life. To the worse, again to Sinj and perhaps wider because we live in the same space where this road connection will strengthen us, even closer, etc. That's not what I meant. I thought where there's a huge illogicality to make it right. There must be a series of other laws, a series of other laws which do not mention this proposal or the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government. If we give some cities the status of large cities we will have to do so and a number of other laws of the existing ones. I simply think that it can be the engine of Croatia's development. We all agree that centralization is bad. Come on, let's see what's best together. I don't think anyone's interested in being dragged to the wrong side by party uniforms. That's what I meant most well, and really if we come up with any smart suggestions, I don't see that we couldn't accept it here together. No, I didn't mean any divisions, don't give me God, no borders, just the other way around. Connecting forces to local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35807	Thank you very much. He is still registered for this item of the agenda, MP Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35808	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll briefly explain why I don't think this law is appropriate and I think it's unsustainable for Croatian opportunities. This Law, in fact, should, in my opinion, be resolved on how to further develop Croatia. In my opinion, it is not the solution to strengthen only 3 centres in Croatia and to give a message to citizens that they all need to solve their life issues in the largest 3 cities. I think it's more important to keep people in the middle where there aren't so many big cities. I will give an example of the Vukovar-Srijem County where there is also the City of Vukovar which, according to the 2001 census, numbers 35 thousand and 900 inhabitants and by all indications is economic, cultural, traffic, scientific and every other centre of Vukovar-Srijem County. And it is certain that Vinkovci depends on further development and prosperity of the entire Eastern Croatia. Through his rich and tumultuous history since the time of the Roman Empire, and colleague Kramarić has also asked me to say something about the Vinkovci of that period. Vinkovci were a significant commercial and crafts settlement. In Vinkovci, two Roman emperors were born and lived other greats such as the Croatian bana Josip Šokčević, the sculptor Vanja Raduš, Alojsija Ulman, Antun Babić, painters Ivan Domac, Albert Kinart, Slavko Kopač, Bozidar Kopić and Joza Mataković, from the board of Vinkovic theatres in the world of acting giants, Vanja Drah, Nada Saturdayić, Ivo Fitz, Maro Ergović, Ivo Gregurović, Jasna Bašić, Vesna Tomiljac. ... He'll come next time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The names of the great writers such as the Relković brothers, Josip Ivan Kozarc, Bogner, Tomičić, Josip Kosor, Vladimir Kovačić, Izidor Krsnavo, Dionysija Švagolj, Slavko Hungarian are also known. In Vinkovci, a composer of the Croatian Anthem, Josip Runjanin, was born, and is similar today. Vinkovci are today an educational centre with 7 secondary schools, with a secondary music school, and in addition to the agricultural study recently, there are also constructions of Gradjevina, Elektrotechnics and Pedagogical Faculty. Vinkovci are a city where today lives and works a large number of painters and sculptors, perhaps taking the size of the city perhaps the largest number of academic sculptors is located in Vinkovci, from Ivan Križanc, Stjepan Jozić, Mataković, Duraković, Zivković, Simon, Jeana Erdelj and Cimeše, Zupković, Lončar, Basin, Captainović, Sertic, etc. What may be more important to say is that in Vinkovci there is both tough and resilient craftsmanship and entrepreneurship, which, despite the war and the war and the damages in the economy, has survived and will tomorrow be the cornerstone of the economic progress of Eastern Croatia. I hope we all still remember the contribution of Vinkovec and Vinkovčan to the Homeland War when the Vinkovci were the doors of Croatia. I said all of this with a goal to actually argue that one city does not have to be 100,000 inhabitants to be of great influence and importance for the development of a particular environment and for development in this case throughout Eastern Croatia. And because of all of the above, of course I don't want to and can't support this law proposed by Mr Kramarić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35809	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. On behalf of the promoter, proposer Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35810	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Law is written with the intention of provocation, but that would be exactly the kind of provocation that I could not have predicted, and I just liked listening to my colleague Culka evoking the history of Vinkovci, which I hope, my Law has in no way questioned and I agree and confirm. I also have to deny my colleague Zubovic, this Law was not written for the needs of an election campaign of local elections because he is, I believe, not 11 years old. And he is waiting for someone in the government to take it and somehow try to answer this life-long Croatian question. What kind of Croatia we think and what kind of Croatia we really want. We all say with that and we pride ourselves that Croatia is a country of cities with a long tradition, with a long history. And then when it needs to be translated into legislation and legal solutions, then all of a sudden, we get caught in fear, and then we show this one panicous fear of cities. I will remind you of the thought of one of our colleagues, unfortunately, the late, Croatian poet, writer, the government of Gotovina who said nicely that Croatia must not allow luxury to have provinces. And this very law is written with the intention of one to fight against the spirit of provincialism. Modernisation of Croatia has no alternative, and if we fool ourselves, we find that local self-government is what it is. I said that the trom and expensive and it is both trom and expensive, that the number of municipalities is unreasonable, that the number of cities is unreasonable that they will actually have a tendency to increase the number of cities and municipalities precisely because we will have that pressure from the ground so that the political will will create new cities and new municipalities, and that in fact the financial background is still very questionable. As this will is questionable, it sees only, wants to see only what is good, what gets, and does not want to see what is actually lost and what is being serviced. That's what we said in the end if you remember in 92 years here when we brought a new redesign of Croatia. One of the things that hurts me as a citizen of this country is that some parts of Croatia are unjustly abandoned, so go to Baranja and see what a rich end is, by definition, richly what it looks like. So former Hungarian Prime Minister Orban comes and tells us that we have two Croatias, one Zagreb and Opatija he saw and the other in Baranja. How to deal with this, among other things, with legislation, we have this opportunity to just find opportunities to encourage it. Well, it's not like this country's social change has completely come out, but as a liberal, I dare say from these processes that need to be directed in some way. Kolega Stazić courageously says Zagreb has a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia, Zagreb has a third of the economy, but whether it is good and which are all political, demographic, economic implications and facts. I think that they are negative in Croatia, that they create unnecessary political tensions between certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, we will again have a sense of deception and loss that someone else is taking something from someone. And now how to create these centres is the first step, so this law is partial, so gentlemen can't determine the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the officials we pay, and it's said to be a partial step, that this is the first step, and that after that a whole set of laws that will solve these problems should follow, but that a monotypic approach is inadmissible, I still think it's inadmissible, and I was saying it in 92, 97, 2001, and today, I haven't changed my opinion on this monotypic nadal approach, and uniformity. We are all in favour of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, as we do, not at all. We have opportunities for this particular selective approach, so who has it, so the government can say that there are taxes like this somewhere else, that Italy has, so you don't have the same relationship with Sicily or some relationship with Lombardia. And these are some of the basic things that we're repeating here and we're surprised, then I'm told by the great cities of 100,000 inhabitants, so gentlemen, that literature defines it. This serious literature defines, I know, you don't have to interpret me I know what Zadar is in history and that part of Croatia and in Croatia as a whole, but the literature defines that it is a big city with 100,000. Serious literature, let's change literature, write new monographs, but there is also a left space that after the creation of new centres that have their own meaning, no one will convince me that Rijeka, Osijek and Split have no special status in Croatia, and that they are the first nucleus around which Vinkovci will further develop with their rich tradition and Vukovar and Županja and Valpovo and Požega and all that goes on. And I have to admit that I'm a little surprised by my colleague Jurjevic how wrong I am, whether he knowingly or unconsciously reads the Law, so this law is that everything he talked about gives him some identity and symbols of the city to come finally into the city's jurisdiction, and not to go to the port administration somewhere outside that story, but that the city is mastering its resources, and not that someone else in his name is doing it, mostly invisible, without burden, without the experience of choice, the state officials can't run the city, and that's why these hard words are falling. You take responsibility for the management of the city, for the public perception that you are responsible and behind that is a state official in the state administration who determines what you can or should not do in the city, so where does he have it? Please tell me where he has it, and then ask for local self-government representatives to be responsible, so it can't go. If we really want a modern European Croatia, then we will be forced into it by the European Union, and then we will be very smart and we will be quick to pass those laws and that is what we have been saying here since 92. A colleague of Linić, a colleague of Gabrić from Split and I had a press conference in this Assembly years ago, 10 years ago and over when we warned where this structure and this kind of relationship would lead us with such ingenuities. And that's exactly what this story is about, that financial independence and the authority of local self-government must increase their relations to the state, to the central government, which is very cleverly doing that to actually leave the quasi-indicatorship without following you with a financial Suport, financial injections, it's a basic story and we're talking about it, and it's precisely that the city's identities can't, that the invisible civil servant decides, so it's either higher, lower or medium. It's inadmissible, here's colleague Chehok saying that the main streets in our cities are not city streets, and as you explain to the citizens, please, let's ask you which mechanism is appropriate, which you are talking about suitability, you are constantly hearing that something is not appropriate, and so you explain to them that your main street is not a city street, that it determines some county road management, you have a state road which is actually a couple of excellent city roads which by the way the state won't even resuscitate. That's what it's all about and it's also for Vinkovci, for the benefit of Požega, and I said that this Law is not ideologically colored, it's life-colored, it's actually protecting the interests of citizens of this country regardless of which it is an ideological party commitment, if you can't understand it then I really need to ask myself why we here, are we actually defending our own parties here, or are we defending the interests of the citizens who chose us here. That's exactly what this is all about, and it can always be said in arbitration what it is 30, so I said it's just going to be a real wasteland, it's going to be a unique solution all over Europe that cities of 30,000 big cities are also. It's not that they are, precisely because literature knows some of the things that should come from something, so I can't create my classification of cities in Croatia. But I'm allowing it to be that there really are cities that have exactly and that status although they don't have it's a fact called 100,000, as some cities may soon have 100,000 and will never be cities, because they've been developing the same way, they've developed in a different way, for different reasons. And I repeat this is this first step, nothing else, partial, necessarily partial because I really can't take it upon myself to write about what I don't know enough about. I don't know enough community problems, I don't know enough middle-city problems, smaller towns, but I know this problem of my own, and I know what I'm saying. So I would really ask you not to fool ourselves with any misunderstandings, inadmissibleness, but to translate it into this actual language, not a political ideological language that something can or cannot. They were alive to see what the government would do and how it would work in public. So I would ask you to accept this provocation in that really way how to be focused, not selectively, there is no need for that, I mean someone's work, the activity of the activity is actually known from the very beginning, but precisely to wait for us and... Croatia is waiting for us, nor will it be able to avoid it, let's start thinking about something exactly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not just... development, it is not only decentralisation as concepts, but something important determines the future, future stability of the political and economic Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this law is written. This is how we're really going to have a big Zagreb, where people are going to run away and people are going to run because of what capital is there, which is there, which is there, which is there, there are some perspectives. But we can direct capital, and we have to direct that capital, because if we don't, then we're really going to give in to fate and we're going to realize that's the way it is, but it can't be. And once again, I thank everyone, even these less appropriate, remarks that I am truly, I say fully aware of these shortcomings and these which may fall when legal hedenatics are used but this law is written honestly, with fair intentions for the benefit of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Because if we have more centres, then she will, and that environment will also actually keep her, allow us to be able to study, so that she can find a job and that she can function, not that everyone is running away from us in Zagreb, or God forbid somewhere outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35811	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35812	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can begin. They're still in the copying phase, and we'll get one text of the proposal in ten minutes with a large number of clubs agreed conclusions about the review, conversion and privatisation debate, and then when we get it and vote on it. And now we're going to this part that we've absorbed. First quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Then I'll vote with my hand My colleague Alenka and I will vote with our hand. [[- A bogeyman.]] So let's get on with it. Let's see the quorum. I'm asking for a result. 103 MPs and representatives in the hall. We have a valid qualified quorum. First is the proposal for a law on big cities, first reading, P.Z. Number 244. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on large cities proposed by MP Zlatko Kramaric is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the government and the reports of the working bodies. Please engage. You can vote. I vote for the proposal for a conclusion. ... Well, we can't now when, so I can't be excluded from the vote as well as a colleague of Alenka's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a result. ... [[Who bought this voting machine?]] Peace be upon my colleague Lonchar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find the conclusion accepted 88 votes for, 2 abstentions and 18 against. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to systematically regulate the issue of large cities in the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. Conclusion accepted. 102 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35814	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law on the State Penetration Commission of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer Zeljko Pavlic, First Reading P.Z., No. 247 You received the proposal for an act. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. You're welcome to meet your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35815	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the state office, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me briefly present to you the proposal for a law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. What is the basic objective of this Law? The main goal is actually to improve the electoral process and system in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we have witnessed after every election that numerous remarks appear, that the tails behind almost every election, so behind these last presidential elections there are also many problems left. Just to point out, it appears to me that 74 criminal charges have been filed for double voting in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In my view, therefore, a permanent expert body should be established as a proposer of this Law, therefore, a permanent body of the State Election Commission, which at all times would be willing to respond to these problems and what is very important to improve the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia and we have witnessed that this system should be improved, that it should be adapted, and that the current local elections that are ahead of us that will take place in just over a month, we have also changed a few laws for them, which I think is not good, so it is, and today we have heard the same thing about cosmetic changes and not therefore about those important and essential changes that would improve our electoral system. What is especially to point out is that the State Election Commission is operating in a certain way today. But what are the problems? The problems are on the one hand, which is therefore the problem of the State Election Commission and the elections themselves are being dealt with on three specific laws. Especially in the Law on Elections of MPs for the Croatian Parliament. In particular, the elections for units of local and regional self-government, especially in the Laws for the President, are therefore three different laws. On the basis of these three different laws, electoral, electoral, national electoral committees are also named. So we had the case that for the previous presidential elections, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia appointed a president and a member, as well as a deputy president and a member of the State Election Commission to elect the President of the Republic of Croatia. So, it's a special election commission only for these elections on November 11th 2004 or 52 before holding the first round of presidential elections. In my opinion, therefore, it is too short for these elections to be prepared. It's even shorter for these local elections to be May 15th. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia again made a special decision appointing members, deputies and members of the permanent composition of the State Election Commission, for the implementation and selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government, units of regional self-government. So, the Constitutional Court made its decision on March 31st, so we have an even shorter deadline, so that this Election Commission prepares the local elections in quality, it's only 45 days. And it was announced that the government will call elections today or tomorrow or at the latest, on the 15th, 30 – 60 days before the election is called will disband, therefore, municipal, city and county councils and call elections. So, according to my court, the same is left too short a time for this therefore, the Electoral Commission to prepare the elections in quality. In our electoral legislation, therefore, the most qualitative so far has been resolved by the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, Articles 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57, which discusses the permanent and expanded composition of the Election Commission. But under it we don't always have, therefore, a state electoral commission that in this sense would work all the time, but it also forms a few weeks or months before the election. While the extended composition of the State Election Commission has not, therefore, been formed at all, and therefore, elections take place more or less in non-regulatory terms by me. What am I proposing with my law? So I suggest forming a state election commission as a permanent state body, so that would work all the time. And it would independently and independently carry out the tasks within its work, defined by this Act and the laws governing the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the election of the president of the Republic of Croatia, the election of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, the election of council members and representatives of national minorities in the units of self-government and the implementation of the state referendum. So this permanent state championship would cover the entire actually electoral system in the Republic of Croatia. Just to point out that we are now one of the few European countries, it is not even known whether there are one or two countries perhaps in Europe, so the environments that do not have such a permanent state election commission because more or less everything about us is what comes down to improvisation. How would this state commission be adopted? It would have a total of 13 members. The permanent composition of the National Election Commission would make up 7 members, and the extended composition of the National Election Commission would make up 6 members. The president of the permanent assembly would therefore be the president of the entire state commission. What's the newspaper in this system now? The members of the current state election committee are generally the judges of the Supreme Court and the President of the State Election Commission is currently acting as the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Ivica Crnic, who has often stepped up and advocated therefore, for the adoption of such a law that the Supreme Judges would relieve because we know what the situation in our judiciary is and the judges are also under great pressure. So, along with their judicial work, they now have to do the job of members of election state, election commissions. By contrast, I propose, therefore, that this permanent system, the permanent composition of the state election committee, which has 7 members, should therefore be actually experts elected by the Croatian Parliament. That is to say, for a member of the permanent composition of the State Election Commission who could be elected to be a person, this means Article 4, who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, who has a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who has the general right to vote and who has at least a high level of expertise in the fields of legal or political science and 10 years of working experience in the profession, and who, in that profession, stands out by scientific or professional work or by his public action. So that kind of person would be 7. They'd be elected within six years. Members of the permanent composition of the State Election Commission would be elected by the Croatian Parliament. He would announce an invitation to judicial institutions, law schools, colleges of political sciences and so on. So the committee in charge, the parliamentary board would therefore make a choice of those seven members of the State Election Commission. This, along with those 7 members of the Permanent State Election Commission, would include 6 members of an extended group of three members. So it's a line of parliamentary deputies. So the State Election Commission also has this political dimension of control and self-control. It would therefore be made up of six representatives of Croatia, of which 3 would therefore be representatives of the ruling party and coalitions, or coalitions, and 3 would be representatives of the opposition. Thus, we think that there would be a good balance as regards both control and only control of the State Election Commission. In the Law, then, we are now talking about the functioning of this State Election Commission. What is still to be pointed out, therefore, about the work of the State Election Commission, has therefore united all that which is the 3 laws so that the work of this National Election Commission is in the process of electing representatives to the Croatian Parliament, in the process of electing the president of the Republic of Croatia, in the process of electing members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, regional self-government. Also in the referendum process. In particular, what we would like to stress, therefore, is that Article 17 in addition to the proceedings relating to the procedure conducts a selection of the referendums set out in the article, I therefore foresee that this Committee gives an opinion and recommendations for improving the electoral procedure, the referendum procedure and the legislation. So the expert body that would therefore be among other things would be this State Election Commission would therefore play a role in improving the electoral process and so far it has been around or around each election so extensive and professional debate on what should be done in order not to repeat the same mistakes from the election to the elections and not to draw tails and it is also important that we propose that this DIP conducts control over the central and unique list of voters. So it's another, one acute focus of the same electoral system that needs to be rehabilitated and therefore needs to be trained so that it doesn't cause negative consequences. The government's opinion is negative. The opinion of the committee responsible is also negative, so after the local elections, the government should come out with some kind of a whole solution to the entire electoral system, which is therefore ordinary, so these flossules that we hear after these similar discussions, but I think it would be a bad message to the public that this Law does not pass into another reading. to block it now after the first reading. The least we can do is, in our first-to-second debate, discuss this problem, and not to stop it, but in the first step, and I'm sure we'll do a lot of good to what I believe we're all trying to do, which is to improve our electoral system. So I hope it still doesn't happen, and that here in Parliament, both in the first and second readings, we'll open a debate about it, and for the Law itself, I think it's a good basis for a quality debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35816	Thank you very much, Proposer. You've also got the government's answer. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Mr. Paul Maticic on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35817	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not support the draft law on state electoral trust submitted by Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. In principle, the government does not object to the establishment of a permanent State Election Commission as a professional part, but feels that this issue should be regulated within the framework of the overall reform of electoral legislation after local elections, taking into account both our experience and international experience and international experience. Accordingly, the government also points out some concrete remarks to certain provisions in the law. The government considers it not a well-designed process to elect members of the State Election Commission because all political options are not guaranteed. Furthermore, the Government considers that, or should be, it should provide for its narrow composition to carry out the tasks of the State Election Commission in individual, extraordinary local elections. Furthermore, in order to ensure continuity in the work, it is possible to foresee that the term of office of all members of the National Election Commission does not stop but to install a mechanism by which only part of the electoral commission would be changed after a number of years to transfer the experience gained to new members of the Committee. A commitment should be made to keep the National Election Commission’s lists of voters. Finally, the Government notes that the applicant did not give a full impact on the financial consequences of the law in question on the State budget and accordingly the Government does not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35818	Thank you very much. I see you've been sending me signals with questions if I've been able to get a good translation of the enquiries coming from the bench. Can he speak for the government deputy? So I will read to you the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Article 2 reads, in paragraph 109, paragraph 1 behind the word "Member of the Government", the word and the Deputy Minister are replaced by the words "Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State in the Central State Office". So I didn't make a mistake in the Rules of Procedure. ... May 7th, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, I think you've gone a little too far this time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues here are the other news even better 13.26 lunch breaks and a good run.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35819	We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a law on the state electoral commission. It is up to the honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakvić on behalf of the HDZ Club. And on behalf of the Committee first. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35820	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 32nd session held on 30 March 2005 discussed the proposal for a law on the state electoral commission of the Republic of Croatia submitted by counterpart Zeljka Pavlic. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee stressed that it does not object in principle to the establishment of the State Election Commission as a professional body. With this issue to be regulated in the context of a comprehensive reform of electoral legislation after local elections but not in a manner proposed by this draft law. In this regard, after the debate, the majority of the vote was one vote only for the law, 6 was against the proposal of the Parliament to reach a conclusion not to accept the proposal of this law. However, 7 votes for the purpose of unanimously proposing to the Parliament that it draws a conclusion obliging the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a bill after a comprehensive expert debate by the end of 2005 to settle the issue of the state electoral commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35821	Thank you very much. You can now proceed immediately on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35822	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is not at all questionable that this issue should be resolved in a way that Croatia will receive the State Election Commission as a permanent and professional body. I don't mean this when I say professionally that the State Election Commission that's been doing these jobs hasn't done them professionally. They were indeed held at a very high level, and all these elections that have been held in the Republic of Croatia so far can indeed be said that both international associations and organisations have been assessed by positive assessments and, apart from certain sieves, I think that the elections can be satisfied. It is not disputed that the president of the election committee, Mr Ivica Crnić, wrote in 2003 and 2004, that he was actually seeking and proposing to establish the State Election Commission as an independent body. And I think it's really a legitimate request because, in any case, so far, when we analyze all the elections, we see that these choices were mostly on the back of our judges. We ourselves know the situation in our judiciary, and we ourselves know that we are fighting a great battle to raise the urgency and efficiency of our courts to a higher level. And if the elections are held by the judges during the elections, they can't really behave their duties in the regular workplace. And in that sense, this law requiring the State Election Commission to be established as an independent and professional body as an idea, I think the prime minister himself announced that after the local elections, the government will come out with this proposal. That in any case, he is welcome and that one part of the provisions of this law proposed by his colleague Pavlic will be found there. Because some of the provisions regarding the powers of the state electoral commission are, in fact, also in this law taken over from the law that is now in force. Which is why I have to say the Croatian Community Club will not support this law. We will not support it for a purely reason that the law must have a financial dimension he simply must have before it is passed I think that the Government that runs a comprehensive policy must also take care of that financial dimension. Because it's one thing to pass the law and declare certain solutions but the state election commission if we set it up and we're going to establish it quite safely as a permanent professional body, it has to have some space of its own to have a building to sit in. He must have some material resources that will be available to him from computers, vehicles. He must have some minimum professional service to work on in that story. With the argument that this is just a redistribution of funds, they cannot agree because it will certainly increase certain costs. It is if, as according to this bill, seven members of the permanent composition of that commission, it is 7 annual salaries, so plus salaries of professional services. And today all these jobs have been done so far by people who weren't professionally involved in the elections that they worked in like with their jobs. And they got a certain fee for it. In any event, this financial dimension should be taken into account in any event on this financial aspect of this problem. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the law. Otherwise, there are certain solutions in it that I have said that are not unacceptable at all, it takes a good deal and what actually Gong seems to me in its law suggest that the difference is that Gong argues that the electoral commission does not have an extended but only a permanent system. So from here I think that there is a single disagreement in your proposal between Article 5 and Article 7 which is actually talking about authorised composers. So now, for the composition of this permanent commission, you say that we should suggest that we also allow political parties. It makes sense and it makes sense in Gong's proposal but in your proposal where you go and the extended composition of that state election committee, I don't think that it should be mixed in as a political party. Because the political parties will actually participate will determine that extended composition. So either way that part would be totally unacceptable. Then you have the same in Article 8. It is true that members of the enlarged should have all the rights. But in those rights you have to define yourself you have to be clear whether it is and the right to pay, they have given you an extended of course in my opinion and in the opinion of our Club should not be if professional membership is not. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the idea of establishing and ultimately believing and supporting the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That the government is obliged to submit to this Parliament by the end of the year. But for these reasons, the HDZ Club will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35823	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35824	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Bosnjakovic argued that the government's president had said after the excitement of the results achieved in the presidential elections that a reform of the system would be made after the local elections. He didn't say it after the locals. He said it right away. So it's a correction to an incorrect assumption. After a thrill to the results achieved by the party in the presidential elections, then he said that we would immediately go to change the electoral... /The speaker has shut down/
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35825	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35826	215. I didn't say anything of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35827	The club of HNS representatives of PGS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35828	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the need for electoral legislation to change as a whole. To get along with the situation both politically and socially and everyone else we have. So within that, as one of the fundamental laws in the electoral legislation, to adopt both the law and the state electoral commission, and to keep that body as a central body to conduct all types of elections and all levels of elections and referendums permanent, preferably a professional body that would worry about harmonising the electoral constitution with a permanent one. And that the elections are being conducted in the right way the laws prescribe it. We discussed this last week about our bill on voters' censuses, which we also posted inside so that the state election commission should become this kind of body. Unfortunately, that bill didn't go through, I guess it'll pass in the next attempt. Other election laws also speak of the position of the state election commission. With the Law on Parliamentary Elections decidedly saying that it is a permanent body although it has never been implemented in practice. But it's decadent that it's a permanent body that has certain powers, as already prescribed in that law. In most European countries, this is a situation that is a fact. So such a central body exists professionally or less professionally but constantly. And he is concerned about the implementation of election organisations and changes in electoral legislation, proposals for amending electoral legislation in line with the needs or situation that is being seen. We have choices a lot. Every two years practically regular elections. Meanwhile, some extraordinary elections, in the meantime and some referendums, would certainly have enough to do with such a state body. The aim of the proposer is indicated here in an explanation. I would just like to look at two points, or three points of that argument, which I find crucial in this situation. We've been around a lot lately, and there's a lot of talk in the public about how to spend money to conduct elections and control and acquire and spend these funds. The State Election Commission would be a body that, if it were in constant composition and could function as a permanent state body, could certainly deal with the problem. Also control, or leadership, control how you want the central voter list, provided that the voter list is centralised as we have proposed in our law, the State Election Commission could have a complete picture of all voters, both here and abroad. It is also giving an opinion on changes to electoral legislation. I believe that this is exactly the kind of body that would professionally and constantly have the best picture, not in terms of decision-making, but in terms of suggestion, in terms of making proposals, what to do with the perceived problems of organising elections and conducting elections. Something a little bit specific about the law. Article 4(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 lays down the necessary qualifications for a member of the permanent composition of the National Election Commission. We at the HNS Club, the PGS think that this, this composition, in fact, is a way of choosing people in the permanent composition of the State Election Commission, might be a little too wide and that in that second part of the State Election Commission that would not be permanent, which will propose political parties to find people with the necessary political qualifications, some other professions and so on, and that in this permanent part of the State Election Commission they should be lawyers in any case. It is finally an operational, professional state body that should operate at the highest level of legal science. A similar situation is found in Article 5 where we find it a little pretentious and overcomplicated to describe the functioning and functioning of members of the State Election Commission. In Article 8, it is likely that the Government will, as Mr Bosnjakovic says when the government's proposal comes here to take over as a good solution, it is a way of forming this non-permanent part of the State Election Commission to have parliamentary parties represented in a kind of even relationship to represent both the position and the opposition. A vague solution to the status of members of the State Commission is in Article 12 where it is not clearly seen whether a member of the State Commission of this non-permanent composition is exercising working status in the National Election Commission or not. That should be defined anyway. If this proposal goes to another reading, I am convinced that the Proposer will solve such problems easily. What we do not like is that the mandatory instructions of the State Election Commission are in some way treated as laws to which it object, at least here in the text is not. The mechanism, a mechanism which can also be affected by these mandatory instructions of the State Election Commission, should be provided, because the State Election Commission cannot in any way be such a type of protected body to whom nothing can be objected, to whom no one has anything to say, and the word is the last. Similarly, some other system provides for observers. If the work of the State Election Commission is public and everyone can attend, the public has insight through various, in various ways and through all media, I do not see the need for observers. If something secret is discussed in the State Election Commission, and that is what the promoter predicted could be a subject that is not for the public, then they are not for observers either. And one more thing that should be considered twice before it is accepted, the Proposer defines the Secretary of State's Election Commission as a new official. Officials thank God in Croatia we have a perfectly good deal and another one I don't think has room, a civil servant can do it perfectly nicely. What should still be defined in this bill is a direct link of responsibility, i.e. to whom the State Election Commission is directly responsible, whether to this Parliament that chooses it or to someone else's body, whether to the Government, whether to the Constitutional Court, whether to whom to give. All in all, in the HNS Club, we believe that this is a good basis and that good law can be built on it that would certainly help Croatian electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35829	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35830	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP club supports the proposal for this law as an initiative, an incentive for a full debate on the urgent need for reform of the electoral system of the Republic of Croatia. That this shows us the results, i.e. the experiences of the 2003 parliamentary elections, and in particular the last presidential elections that have also been held. Namely, both elections point to the necessity and reform of the electoral system starting from the voter list, electoral committees, observers, voting methods and to the competence of the State Election Commission itself and other election committees, depending on which elections are involved, whether it is presidential elections or parliamentary elections or local elections, or even referendums. In fact, you yourself witnessed that after the first round of the presidential elections, and mainly after the second round that they had repeated themselves at individual polling stations because of irregularities, means that they were found and that money was actually spent without meaning, because these results in the re-election had no effect on either the first round or after the second round. And we had a case where it was repeated, people went to vote, so the whole one system went back into operation and we spent money without a trace. Because I'm not saying any influence could neither be theoretical, let alone a practical influence on the results of the election itself. And only that fact speaks enough about the need in one place, we support a colleague, in one place regulate the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, but in the chapters. The first is about the presidential elections, the second is about parliamentary ones, the third is for locals, and the fourth is for the referendum. And exactly means in each of these matters to determine what is the full jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, because in this case we are talking about in the HSP Club, repeating means in a few polling stations without any effect, without the possibility of theoretical change, that it was the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission such as to exist normally they would have no need to hold or repeat elections in these polling stations, and such situations are quite much of the vote of those who are no longer living up to the vote in two places and all these other situations and all this is talking about how we really have to react quickly and to determine exactly the Law on the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission all of these situations, and not that we have a situation like we now have that this has been scattered in several laws so that not only the State Election Commission does not know how to do it, especially in all those situations when it is mandatory that voting in the Armed Forces, whether the vote has been on boards, or in the KP. Well, that can be finely regulated by law and by this very law, and then it's clear to those things that the State Election Commission decides normally that there must be an opportunity to object and everything else. Therefore, the intention is good, the initiative is good, but we believe that until the second reading we should regulate the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission in this way as we at the HSP Club suggest and prevent in advance various ridiculous situations or repetitive or voting of the dead or any other situation that gives even negative light to the elections themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35831	Thank you. Club of HSS, respected representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35832	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this law not only as a good initiative but as a law since it is the first reading of the law, I see no reason not to support such a law and it is not clear why the Government and the Priory reject such proposals. It is not at all disputed that we have the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, its work is regulated in three electoral laws. Nowhere in Western Europe or the Union imposes on us that this will be regulated in one regulation, but it is simply not good because we think this is more consistent, easier to understand and that the work of the State Election Commission itself if it is regulated in one regulation will be easier and legal and more correct. In fact, you know, we often hear the State Election Commission constantly or intermittently. We also have according to current regulations a permanent State Election Commission, but we do not have a professional State Election Commission and that is the problem. It is no secret that most members of the State Election Commission are judges of the Supreme Court, that the President of the Election Commission is in the position of the Supreme Court and that these are people who, a few weeks before the elections and a few weeks after the elections, are not working on the cases for which they were paid, whether they were well or poorly paid for it, but simply do not do their job, do what they should do and have to devote themselves to what is more important at that time, and these were elections for Parliament, so for the Croatian Parliament, they were local, were either presidential or they were about the referendum. Let us not forget that, in addition to these rules, the work of the State Election Commission is regulated by the Law on Referendum. Fourth regulation. Namely, the promoter will do well. He wants us to have a permanent State Election Commission and he wants us to have a professional State Election Commission and that's good for me. In fact, if I remember correctly, we were through this Parliament in our first reading at least when it comes to first reading, missing regulations that did not provide for the necessary means to implement them. I don't think it's good that the government and the Priory, and that was one of the reasons why I'm not mistaken, Mr. Deputy, is why you said that the government doesn't support this regulation, that there's no appraisal of the necessary resources. It's a lack in this law, but it's about first reading of the law. I don't see that it would be too much of an asset that would burden the additional state budget and it's simply about redistributing these funds is the technical lack of this regulation that doesn't exist, but it's still about first reading of the law and I don't see any reason not to put it into that law. What is most important is that if you look at countries that speak for themselves or which we say are countries of high democracy, I am simply talking about the Member States of the Union, they are not immune from breaking electoral rules and there are irregularities in the election process, but there is one other thing, that there is a body that controls it and reacts effectively. Efficiently, at all times, he reacts, which is a good wish, a good intensity that has been translated into this regulation. What I suggest to the Proposer, of course, to correct the text before the second reading. I will say specifically what I mean on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. I mean, first of all, Article 3. You know this permanent composition, the extended composition of the State Election Commission, maybe we should fix it in paragraph 3. It's a bit of a clumsy formulation, so I suggest to the motionary to fix it. I further suggest that Article 17(1) amend point 1. He probably wanted to say the electoral legislation in this text can't be seen here, so I suggest that it be fixed. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No Representatives of the Croatian Parliament vote individually on each proposed candidate. The vote in the Croatian Parliament is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, I don't think this law on how to vote for members of the State Election Commission should be burdened. In the same Article, paragraph 11 is replaced by the following: The proposed candidate for a member of the Permanent State Election Commission is considered elected if all representatives of the Croatian Parliament vote for him. I don't think there's any reason for such a harsh provision to be there and when it's voted for by the Supreme Court president it's not that restrictive of such a provision. And then in Article 23, the Secretary of State of Election Commission, I think it is more appropriate for the State Election Commission to appoint him. There's just no reason for him to be chosen. He's not a member of the State Election Commission. It is a matter of whether he is a state official, it is mostly an administrative person, a person who manages administrative affairs for the state electoral commission, and we consider it more appropriate to appoint that term. And these would mainly be remarks relating to nomotechnics. So we suggest to the promoter that we accept these remarks, suggest further to the Government there is really no reason not to miss this law in the first reading, this is a good law and regardless of the shortcomings that we have mentioned here. It is achieved by this law that we get a permanent professional body that controls the regularity and legality of the election. And one more thing. Finally, above that State Election Commission is the Constitutional Court and you know what the State Election Commission is bringing and what are called mandatory instructions and they are not what is said last and against it is allowed to appeal to the Constitutional Court which can ultimately undo them. We see no reason to at least repeat in this, the text of the law does not go through in the first reading and the Croatian Peasant Party Club will, of course, support this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35833	Thank you very much. One individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, me and this bill of law, I can't really be surprised by the government's position. The government again rejects a legislative proposal coming out of the opposition line again with an explanation that it will resolve it smarter and better and I only wonder why it has not been resolved in a year and a half. If this means solving smarter and better, it could have done especially what the Government itself feels is the principle approach contained here in this legislative proposal to the Government is acceptable. The government, as well as the legislator, believes that the state electoral commission should be a permanent body. The government's objections point out some, but they're not really huge grudges. It's about the law in the first reading and all those objections that are justified. I agree with the government's remarks, they are allowed to be incorporated into the legal proposal until the second reading. And it would be perfectly logical and normal for the government to take a different position and say that this law is adopted in the first reading, and the government will, together with the promoter, complete the law until the second reading. I think that would be acceptable to the proposer, too. This is a waste of time. The government rejects a good, obvious legal proposal. We are now having a debate here about him, the law will refuse by the will of the majority, then we will wait for the government to send its own to discuss in two readings. It's completely irrational. It's completely irrational. And what are the government's objections now? The objections to the government are a longer term of office, so, well, it could be a longer term of office, why wouldn't it be? That not all members of the electoral commission have the same length of mandate, that they choose half-a-half. Acceptable, why not? Well, I think that's what the proposer would have been. That the DIP is running voter lists, especially an interesting and quality government proposal and the government's remarks that all policy options should be represented. The government shows really one democratic commitment in this law reading and I think it would be acceptable, completely acceptable. Does Croatia need a permanent State Election Commission? Well, of course we should say that for a very long time. And that's what everybody says. Mr Crnić speaks because the judges of the Constitutional Court, or the Supreme Court who are members of this National Election Commission, are withdrawing them from their basic affairs at the time of the election. This is proposed by GONG as an NGO, and this is what the government is proposing, as well as by MPs. If the government proposes it is acceptable for parliamentary majority MPs, this is what the MPs of the parliamentary minority propose. It is acceptable for all of us, there is no dispute over whether this intensity and this well-written law should be accepted. There are always some elections in Croatia, especially local ones. Every once in a while some local government falls, elections must be held, and the State Election Commission constantly has some work to do. And that is why it is good to be a permanent body that will coordinate and monitor the conduct of elections at local level. How does the State Election Commission normally work? It works according to the law, of course, valid as we have. Issue mandatory instructions. These mandatory instructions are double, some must remain as mandatory instructions as they concern the current situation in individual elections. The mass of these mandatory instructions should actually enter the Electoral Law. This is the lack of the Election Law that the State Election Commission must always make the same instructions to the elections instead of having them enter the law, so the State Election Commission would free one unnecessary job, and the citizens would have one regulated law where some technical things, the way of holding elections, I don't know, look, editing of polling stations, so all of what it normally says in those mandatory instructions could enter into one, let's just say, the Implementing Law on Elections. The Implementing Law on Elections, that is what the Government should do, which would be unique for both the President of the Republic and Parliament, and local self-government. And not that it's different, as it is different, that members of these election committees must be outsiders somewhere, determined by party quotas. It's all expensive charms. But here, it's the government's job to prepare such a single electoral law, and this should now be accepted. I don't understand why she's refusing now. In particular, it seems to me a good proposal for both parliamentary majority and parliamentary minority, 3 on each side, to enter this extended composition. Why? Why? Well, because of one thing very unpleasant and ugly that happened in the last presidential election that we actually had an eclectic example of electoral fraud. And that also established an existing State Election Commission and it raised about 45, 47, 43, I don't know how many criminal charges for voting in 2 polling stations. But this, this State Election Commission, which is made up of Supreme Court judges, certainly did not express a political attitude towards it. And that's what a political stance should be about. Because you know, one country that allows itself to have such a harsh electoral scam, whether it can affect the result of the election. The state election committee said, that's 45, I don't know, votes, it couldn't change the result of the election. Well, of course it couldn't. But the very fact that such a harsh fraud can occur in one country, without it being the strictest politically condemned and legally sanctioned, does not speak nicely of the state. Don't speak too well. You know, it's such a political scandal actually, it's such a political shower for all those who were obliged to conduct elections and control the regularity of these choices. And for that reason, it would be good for politicians to sit in this State Electoral Commission in the expanded composition. So they might be less involved in technical matters, that would be the constant composition, but they could react if God didn't give it up again, to have someone vote in two polling stations again. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Because look, if the election isn't regular then they don't make sense. What we're going to invite people to the election, what's the point of someone going to the election, and the result is furniture. Or they can be completely guilty. It's parliamentaryism, then. She's losing her sense of purpose. Then it's all one, so one play, unnecessary. Therefore, because of these important things, it is unusual for the Commission to have its own political part, to call it that. But I am now wondering if it makes any sense to go into the analysis at all with all the remarks on behalf of the HSS Club, a very quality remark to the motionary around this Law when his destiny is known. He will be rejected by the parliamentary majority. And I call on the parliamentary majority, it would not be a precedent. The parliamentary majority here also accepted the Declaration on Persons with Disabilities, despite the government's opposition, which she felt the Declaration should not be accepted. I call on the parliamentary majority to perform rationally, all together as Parliament. Let us let this law go to first reading, to write together the conclusion of one in which we call on the Government and the Proposer of this Law to read together the proposal and to save time until the second reading. Because look, the government says, "We'll do it after local elections." Well, we know, but the second reading will come after local elections anyway. So there's no point in waiting now, why would they wait now for the local elections to pass when they absolutely have no impact on the preparation of this law. The law can be prepared for a second reading, so when local elections pass, a second reading and adoption of the law will come. There is no reason to make this difficult, and there is no reason for the government to treat quality legal proposals like this, which it says are of quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35835	Thank you very much. Does he? Yeah. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, Proposer of the Law. Final review, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35836	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the office, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen. Now, let me thank you all first for your participation in the debate, and unfortunately, I cannot finish this sentence as it ends on similar occasions. So, until the second reading, I will consider all the remarks, therefore, and put them in another reading of the Law. It's probably going to be, unfortunately, and I'm left behind and I regret it because I really think that the law is good and this debate has, therefore, shown it. Not only because of the support of some representative clubs, but because of all those who participated in the debate that they mentioned, therefore, that it takes such a law from famous ones, therefore, that Croatia does not have permanent, in the right sense, the permanent composition of the State Election Commission because in reality it is a matter of athok commissions that are convened a month, a month and a half before the elections and the duration until the election procedure is over, which I think is insufficient, so that from the beginning to the end the electoral system in a good way, we also have after certain elections different tails that cause controversy, etc., that it is simply an electoral commission, there would certainly not be, because there would be no vacuum between forming two electoral committees, it is unused time and we all agree that our electoral system should be improved. But let only some, some answers to some remarks and questions I try to give. As far as funding is concerned, we're not even, it's... therefore, with a concrete calculation because it is a first reading, the assessment of the source of the necessary resources is well written, the necessary means to work in 2001 would ensure the redistribution of the budget from the budget reserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because we don't know when that law will be passed. This Law is now in the first reading, second reading could be in either 6 or 9 months, so we cannot determine exactly how much funding it will take and for the next year, so the second reading would already specify exactly how much funding would be needed for the permanent functioning of the permanent establishment of the state election commission. As for the status of members of the electoral commission, a permanent and extended composition. Even in the very way of their choice, therefore, it tells us about how they will have the status. In fact, the permanent composition is elected and the extended composition is determined, so it is the parliamentary representatives whose additional obligation it is, the additional duty and they will not professionally perform that duty but will be parliamentary representatives who will also perform the duties of members of the extended assembly of the state election committee. As regards the competences of the HSP Club, in point 7, Articles 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 are defined precisely under articles of competence of Article 13 which discusses the selection procedure of representatives in the Assembly, 14 which discusses the election of presidents, Article 15 on the selection of members of representative bodies, Article 16 on the implementation of the State referendum and Article 17 on additional tasks, therefore, of the National Election Commission. We think it's, therefore, quite well done, but that's until the second reading we'll fix it. As far as responsibility is concerned, here is article 19, so the question to which the State Election Commission is accounting. We therefore envisioned that the State Election Commission, once a year as well as after the elections, or a referendum at the state level, submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. I think it's very important, very important. Not only do we get this report, but the Croatian Parliament should discuss the situation in the electoral system, discuss it and, therefore, launch the necessary initiatives. I think that's pretty good, because we in the Parliament have feedback actually on the state and functioning of the electoral system right now, and we don't even have any. Unfortunately, given the fact that the Government's opinion, I would have to answer that, too. The Government, therefore, also notes that Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the legal case in question do not well elaborate on the selection process of the state electoral commission because it does not guarantee the representation of all political options. Since it is proposed that the election commission be elected by the Croatian Parliament. On the proposal of the Committee responsible for monitoring the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is not stated anywhere that a number of members are elected on the parliamentary majority proposal and the second part on the parliamentary opposition proposal. It seems that colleagues in the office only read this Law until the article, until Article 7. And they have not read what is further in Article 8 which, therefore, defines an extended composition of the state electoral commission of which three are, therefore, members, i.e. The representatives of the majority policy option and three, therefore, those opposition political options. Well, I don't think that's the point. Most of the time, here I am. I, as a promoter, am in the mood to work together to the representatives of the Government on the basis of the debate in this Croatian Parliament, this Law on my part, therefore, has no problem, that this Law in the second reading be better, better and better quality and as it should be for Croatia. Here, thank you very much. And here I call upon the members of the ruling coalition to support this Law in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35837	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Second, Proposal for a Law on the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 247. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal for a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political Affairs, I am giving the political system the next conclusion. The draft law on the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by MP Zeljko Pavlic, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, and the report by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. Conclusion accepted, 72 votes for and 35 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35841	Dear Mr. President, esteemed gentlemen of parliament, for 15 years the IDS has been talking about injustices that were committed against fighters in the '90s or early '90s... We talked about it and when others were silent, we talked about the need to correct these injustices and during Tudjman and during the former coalition government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it didn't seem like much or much of it didn't help. But also if there wasn't a possible IDS coming forward here in the Parliament, it's not tending to say, I think some concepts would almost be forgotten. Why did we perform like that? So I repeat, first of all, because these people were wronged because they wanted to undo everything that was being created overnight in the early '90s. I absolutely agree, by the '90s there were many, many mistakes, we lived in a party system, we didn't know this pluralism of ownership, society was extremely idealized. People were leaving the country, people were winding up in prisons because of the delicacy of opinion, I don't know, the politics of brotherhood and unity can solve the national issue, etc., etc. On the other hand, while some people were working, disowning themselves, I dare say a material basis which in the '90s was blasphemed, raised a very standard of one to 50 years of an extremely agricultural country or particularly. For 45 years, such peace has been maintained. Once again, I absolutely don't idealize the period until the '90s, I don't idealize the policy that was going on back then. But the way that it went towards these people, the participants of the People's Liberation War, in my deep conviction, the IDS Club's trust was extremely wrong. What should, however, be unquestionable to me as well as the legitimacy of the 1990s Defense War itself, 91st. - 95, these are the achievements of the anti-fascist war. If it hadn't been for the Partisan movement, so if you wanted Joseph Broz Tito, never Istria, Rijeka, Zadar would have been a part of Croatia, absolutely never. So if it wasn't for this anti-fascist movement, Croatia would have been seen from the Zagreb cathedral and we have to admit it. So generations today of 80-year-olds who in the 40s were participants in a folk-free fight. There is also no doubt that, after World War II, there were both guilty judgments and difficult actions and crimes on the part of the NOB. Let's just take this crossroad, etc., that's all true, it can't be justified but the anti-fascist movement has included Croatia among the winning countries 2. The World War, though, is like that part of ex-Yugoslavia. This saved face I dare tell this country Croatia, because of the national issue not only in Croatia but also elsewhere, the NOB fought for the Federational structure of the Republic of Croatia which in the 1990s became or that element became one of the elements among others of our self-loathing and that very principle, the right of the people to self-determination until secession, before independence were called by many from Franjo Tudjman to many MPs in this home. Finally, I claim that the constitutionalists were wise enough that in the preamble of the Constitution, although they say that the preamble was written by the President of the Republic himself, the late Franjo Tudjman, it is quite irrelevant now, so they were wise enough to bring into that preamble the anti-fascist movement and should be recognised today in 2005 it is certainly less political to say that term than it was in previous years. That's why I'm not running away from the role of the church, including Pope John Paul II. It was also immeasurable, as regards the origin of the Republic of Croatia. What is our Declaration talking about? We go, consider, confirm, highlight, greet, etc. First of all, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports must install the relevant truth about 2. The World War, on the struggle of the Croatian peoples and other peoples of Croatia with or with the nationality of Croatia with which we are fully proud and according to which the world positively revalorates us. Second, to protect the remaining and rebuild the devastated antifascist monuments as quickly as possible. Third, that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the participants of the NOR 41. – 45th, according to the unique Law on Croatian Defences, equally in all rights with the defenders of the Homeland War, and also in retirement, I will explain this later, the wartime NORs are to be leveled with the wartime wartime wartimes of the Homeland War, that persons persecuted by the Ustasha Order during 2. The World War, which was imprisoned because of anti-fascist beliefs, abused in camps and prisons, has the same rights as those convicted of political delinquency after 45. It undertakes the state authority to be the bearer of the celebrations of the anti-fascist festivals from 22 June of the Anti-fascist Fight Day and beyond. In order to provide health care to NOR participants under the same conditions as those of the Homeland War and clearly the Croatian Assembly calls on all citizens, state institutions, associations and media, and obliges all officials, all state authorities to promote the fundamental values of this movement on those principles. Croatia is, we'll all agree there was a strong partisan movement, I won't talk about it now. Istria spontaneously rose up against Mussolini's rule, so much was really irritated by that film "Heart in the well" with a clear one dangerous qualification that Istria, Rijeka, etc., belonged to ex-Yugoslavia, i.e. Croatia, the worse part of Slovenia, based on the policy of ethnic cleansing, or revenge policy, simply does not correspond to the truth regardless of what the exodus was, exactly I will repeat again, there were many primitives after the war, as it was everywhere and below, but it is true that there was an exodus on 47th rather than 45th when the war ended, or 54th for that part of Bujština and Koparština, and not 45th, means 2 and 9 years after the end of the war, and to a large extent because of the then Italian policy of war. However, after these contracts were signed in Paris and London, it was equally clear that the borders were definitely. Finally, I would dare even say that Tito had a brilliant intention in 45, he had sent his troops to Trieste before he freed Rijeka, Pula, etc., knowing that whoever was holding Trieste is holding and increasingly east of him as Italy did after Danuncije 18 came to Rijeka knew that he would dispute over the river but that that is why everything east or west of that city would be theirs. I, however, want to say that for the identity of this anti-fascist movement in Istria, it was extremely important that the movement was more ethnic, that even the first victim of fascist terror in Istria was Rovinjac, Italian Pietro Ive, or that, for example, after Italy’s capitulation, only 20 thousand Italians died, did not deny that this same fascism had previously been made in Istria, Dalmatia, etc., many homes turned black. I therefore believe today that this policy of interethnic tolerance must clearly be condicio sine qua non of any policy which has to be guided on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Which means we're looking for, first of all, for this antifascism to enter the textbooks in an objective way to make it clear what he meant for these spaces. What he did well, where there were mistakes, who was Tito, who Pavelic, who was Budak, who was on the other hand Ivan Goran Kovačić, who was Francetic, who was Boban, who was Joachim Rakovac or Rade Končar. Clearly the same should be said what was the crossroad and what kind of camp it was during 2. The World War was Jasenovac, those who do not know how the world looks at Jasenovac, should see the Holocaust Museum in Washington where the same letters of names are written by Auschwitz and Dachau and Mathausen and Jasenovac, clearly there must be a history of the return of the parts of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, there should certainly be something to talk about the exodus because the truth must be completely as it was in that period. The truth that can only be, neither beautified nor exalted, but in one word, real. Secondly, to remove these monuments to Budak, France, to stop serving the Mass of Anti Pavelic, there is really no such thing as what is happening in Croatia anywhere, even I would say that this government has done a lot, much, even more than the former, whether it is less important, but the fact that it erases the names of Mili Budaku, that there is no more Francetic by the road, is that I don't know how to call them the special war against the current government but it makes you not to fall into oblivion, and the order is also that those perpetrators are walking peacefully through this country, is that it may be some element of subversive, I won't call it a special war against the current government but it makes you not to fall into oblivion, and it's also the order not to forget about the mining that all the time it took place in the simple world, the fact that from 91 to 99 to be almost 3 thousand partisan monuments, so that it was known to anyone in fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that it should be in Croatia. It was, I agree with monuments that didn't have any artistic value but there were also exceptional achievements and I'm finally going to ask myself a question. Who does that board or that stone or I don't know, that bronze bothers. Is that why anyone in Croatia was responsible? He didn't answer. Has anyone been discovered? It's not. So someone in power, the police, they just tolerated it. Thirdly, the IDS also holds that NOB members should be equated with members of the Homeland War. I don't think NOB fighters should, say, belong right to privileged car imports, right to stock and so forth, but I absolutely think they should be returned to so-called. the pension rights acquired, i.e. to provide health care as well as to the participants of the Homeland War and to clearly equalise the disabled. And in order to avoid any confusion here I will quote Krešimir Piškulić, president of the Association of Anti-Fashist Fighters of the Republic of Croatia, whose texts we have also looked at, who literally says: It is not true that "SAB" of the Republic of Croatia is seeking equalisation in pensions. No, that's not true. But what he says is still inconclusive because the average pension of NOB participants, or their families, is 2 thousand 183 kuna, and the average of defence pensions is 5 thousand 479 kuna. In total, of the 63,000 712 pensioners of NOB participants, 22 thousand 703, disabled 6 thousand 767, a total of 29 thousand 470 and a family 34 thousand 242. This number of 29,000 470 pensioners who were in NOB indicate that since after World War II, they were then accounted for by 300 thousand NOB participants. In the Homeland War, numbers up to 550, as many as 600,000 are mentioned. At that time there were nearly 250 thousand victims on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. There were over 13,000 of them today. So today the de facto of that number of pensions receives 10% of the living, somewhere around 30 grand. Monetary equation is further stated to be required only for NOB disabled people who have 15% lower incomes than Homeland War invalids, respecting the moral principle that the same physical damage should be paid equally. What is almost amazing is that according to Fumic, members of the non-existent formation of the Croatian Homeland Army have been recognized in the war for the retirement internship while the NOB fighters are not, and during the purchase of apartments, the military internship is recognised to them for a double duration. So in the participants of the Homeland Army while the Partisans are not. So what exactly, I'd dare say insults, I don't know, even humiliates. That these fighters were denied 40% of their pension rights based on that base they had. So their payments from there were about 40% somewhere in 1992, and all based on that one administrative decree. Finally, the President of the Republic, the late Franjo Tudjman was a lawman, Commissioner of the Zagorje Brigade, General, at the head of the Historical Institute if I am not mistaken, a member of the CK Croatia, and he among other things denied his associates 40% of his pension and levelled with them or in a more privileged position those who were on the other side, the participants of the homeland army of whom many and "U" carried on their hat. And it's just insulting. Clearly, today must not be and it should be said no rematch against those who have been on the other side. Clearly, if they didn't commit serious crimes. However, it is a unique case in the world that one government, probably for the sake of ideology, has denied someone. reduced so-called pension rights acquired. And that's certainly the greatest injustice. Then the disabled. I argue and constantly point out that the hand lost by a young man in 1943 in the vicinity of Buzet is a hand like that defender who lost it in 1993 in the vicinity of Gospić or Dubrovnik. There must simply be no discrimination in my view, or at least when disabled people are not supposed to be. Finally, what are the rights of a disabled Homeland War? I'm not going to tell them right now, but I'm going to say that they're appropriate, suitable for the current moment. And it's an honor to the state to pay them off. Few countries guarantee the rights of this kind, as Croatia does towards veterans or disabled people of the Homeland War. It's an indisputable fact. But the IDS believes that the participants of World War II must also be in the same position as the participants of the Homeland War. Then, fifthly, we hold that those who have passed the horrors of Ustasha camps should be treated as political prisoners. If political prisoners from Glog Island who was a difficult communist stew or cassamat, it should be pointed out, received a cash compensation because two, three, four or more years were on the Gol island or in Stari Gradišca and I hold that they should receive that fee, then such compensation should also be paid to those who were in Jasenovac or to Stari Gradišca again. I clearly expect it to be asked by the Croatian government to pay compensation to prisoners in Molat, Gounars. Those who passed from Istria by the only concentration camp in Italy, Rižarna in Trieste, especially those who were there after 1943. Why? Because Germany paid the money to Italy, Italy paid it but Italy didn't pay it to the campers who were there. But I doubt our people will get that amount. I really doubt it. Why? Because ex Yugoslavia and Italy compensated for war damage so-called Optanic property. Is that there is no such thing anywhere and that no country has ever paid each other war damage by their property then theirs, today our citizens or today theirs again, but today except for 5 thousand 236 people who have received so-called. The discharge from Yugoslav citizenship has been resolved and these opt-out fees can be sought exclusively in Rome, not in Zagreb or Ljubljana. At last, 60 years of victory over fascism will come soon. Italy introduced that day of memories of the exodus. They say "foibe" etc. Croatia has a holiday of 22.6. following the departure of the first European Partisans to war. Is that it corresponded with the attack on the Soviet Union, but we clearly suggest marking clearly not on the working day of this unworkable day and the days of ZAVNOH. Imagine the absurdity, I heard, here someone told me in the bench that the ZAVNOH building in Plaška allegedly collapsed in 1995. That if it's true, it's truly tragic. We suggest a reminder of 9.5. Day of Europe, soon. 25.9.1943. the so-called historical paternity decisions on the accession of Istria, Rijeka to the Republic of Croatia or Croatia. In Istria we always mark 25.9. and 9.5, and there in 1997, 4 thousand, 5 thousand people were marked the Day of the Paris Treaty. Italy took the day as the day of its memory, and then from the Croatian authorities, normally with other connotations was spoken by academician Vlatko Pavletic, at the time the president of the Parliament and Mr. Ivica Kostovic, who was then the head of the office of the President of the Republic of the late Franjo Tudjman. 7. to ensure adequate health care for NOR participants and to clearly promote the values of NORs by state institutions. To end, it is understandable that these principles should be translated into laws, this should be done as soon as possible. Because these people are not going to be here tomorrow, unfortunately. The question is, how much would it cost, not a little bit, exactly. And I agree that Croatia is in huge trouble. Economic, developmental social. Everyone's looking for everything right away and for the pensioners to be returned to them by both the defenders and the disabled and the alternative groups, and the NOB participants. And the unemployed, the weak, and so on, are not spoken. Like those who work and, say, they don't get paid. And so on. So Croatia has problems to see if there can be money. But we will try and resolve the position of NOB fighters in this year 2005. Or the next day they won't need it under quotes. I mean, right now. Because these people in a few years just won't be. Those of us in deep old age but behind them will surely remain a lasting work of theirs. Especially given that Croatia today has Istria, Rijeka and Zadar, and so on thanks to this struggle. And that if no other generation is to be thanked for that contribution. That's true. This was the meaning of NOB and the fact that this Partisan movement placed us among the winners of the axle forces that should be in these days before 9. 5. Always point out. So gentlemen, let's try to repay these people. In the '90s, they were unscrupulous. And today they're simply cut off by not doing power up to them. So let us also acknowledge that 90 of these were led by a wrong policy, that there was also a policy of rematchism among others. And that's why there's no reason today in 2005. The defenders absolutely should stress this in the 95th year, by liberating parts of the Republic of Croatia, have achieved their maximum goal, they have defended Croatia within the borders of AVNOJ. Whose border Badintier's commission has recognised as the international borders of the Republic of Croatia. And NOB fighters also reached their maximum goal during that period in 41, 45. Because they integrated Istria Rijeka Zadar into the territorial Corps of the Croatian people, Koparština, the part around Gorica into the territory of the Slovenian state. They increased Slovenia by almost 1/3. They defended the land of fascism, they broke that so-called "fascism." Pavelic's quasi state. And the legitimates of Croatia at the time of Yugoslavia did not matter now, as a victory over fascism and should not be distracted from the mind that in that period, more than 200 thousand people died in Croatia. And what's important is also to point out some foundations of sovereignty through that federal structure. So neither is the National Liberation War competitive with the Homeland War. Nor was the homeland war opposed to the People's Liberation War. Each of them in their time for the Republic of Croatia gave an extraordinary number, in one word they gave her the life she lives today. And therefore, honored gentlemen, let us try to find a consensus because it is only so that it is possible to correct the injustice that has been done to World War II fighters who have fought on the side of the anti-phastic movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35842	Thank you. We have four corrections, five corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35843	Mr. President, although I think we didn't really need this debate, I'm just going to factographically correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine, who in his exposé pointed out that these people were being mistreated since the 1990s and back here. According to these people, he apostrophe of NOB members or anti-fascists no matter what that means, there will be later speeches. I want to correct it that he completely missed with such a finding because in the 1990s, the state military political summit itself was members of NOB by President Tudjman, by Mr Manolić, Josip Boljekovec, Slavko Degorije and Janko Bobetka, Martin Špegel, Dusan Bildjic, according to which the entire state military political summit was then members of NOB. Its constitution is therefore completely missed and serves only in unnecessary ideological debates in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35844	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35845	As usual, counterpart Cain showed how tragic the Croatian people are and how tragic our history is. In his propaganda communist speech, he said many lies and one of them was that the anti-fascist struggle began on June 22nd. It has absolutely nothing to do with the truth. A fellow Caine would even envy you for this... the modern-day head of the agipropa, Milovan Gilas. June 22nd, we celebrate it as a national holiday has nothing to do with antifascism. Where were those so-called. Anti-fascists, when a pact was created between fascists and communists and who had been enslaved for two years, had been tearing Europe apart. I'm referring to Hitler Stalin's agreement. What they've been doing until then. And on June 22nd, it happened that a group of communists went into the woods because they heard on the radio that their mother Russia had been attacked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35846	Third correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35847	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Cain has said a lot of incorrect allegations. I'll retire first. It is incorrect to say that the average pension of Croatian defender is 5400 kuna and compared to Partisan, which is 2000 and something kuna. My colleague Cain presented the incorrect information for Croatian wartime people with disabilities is 4700. And Croatian defenders, if they have a pension, have 1700 kuna. Croatian defenders cannot equalise themselves with NOB residents because they have no right to do so while they were entitled to do so. When he told his colleague that he was 80 today, he had to be 15 when the war started. It's a bit of an interesting situation. The second thing, if he spoke in eliminating acquired rights, it was him while he was the former coalition government that abolished acquired rights to the current Croatian defenders. If he spoke of mined monuments, we know that the monument to the Partisans in Mirogoje and before the Synagogue, the marriage was set up.. Why didn't he say so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35848	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35849	Mr. President, I really want to concentrate on one that seems important to me. Mr. Cain said that in the 1990s, there was a rematch against the NOB fighters. THAT was rematchism, and I guess that's what he meant by rematchism. That's absolutely incorrect. Unfortunately, some crimes such as Daxe were not solved on the other hand, where some who had received pensions in the 90 ’ s probably participated. So it's about the opposite attitudes, or the truth is somewhere on the other side. There was no rematch of any kind that we can definitely say as fellow Djapic said. Because many NOB fighters have also participated in the creation of a Croatian state, therefore there is no speech about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35850	And respected representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35851	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I didn't want to answer, but when Mr. Cain said that NOB fighters had reached their maximum goal and defeated fascism, then I remembered that since the 43rd, all the Chetniks had gone to the Partisans. Where they got the facts the same ones they had in the Chetniks. So they did not defeat fascism, but cooperated with fascists. They couldn't win because they were with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35852	On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. ... How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as the proposer of the declaration on behalf of the SDP Club As a novice. [[Intruder: No, no, just as a proposing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35853	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club proposes this declaration on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the victory of anti-fascism in Croatia and Europe precisely out of the desire that Croatia, which in this sense has something to say, should join this big round anniversary. After all, several months ago, speaking right here in the Croatian Parliament, our prime minister said Croatia would join the big anniversary. And that is why the SDP Club also wants this to be done in such a dignified way and under the high patronage of the Croatian state, but also to do so with no figs in our pocket. That is, by joining the 60th anniversary of the victory of the democratic power of the world over this terrible evil of a newer history that was embodied in fascism, and fascism was nothing more than a conspiracy against freedom, against humanity, against man himself. Our declaration, i.e. this declaration has the original basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is now affirming the establishment of Croatia's state independence in the period from II. The World War on anti-fascist principles expressed in the 1943 ZAVNOH decisions and thus Croatia in its highest legislative act showed its anti-fascist basis in its Constitution. After all, this is also an occasion for this declaration that the Croatian Parliament honors the memory and gives thanks to all anti-fascist fighters but also to all victims of fascism. After all, our recent past has shown the need to protect and preserve the anti-fascist values that grew in the People’s Liberation Battle and in II. The World War in the fight for sovereign and democratic Croatia and in the Homeland War. And just taking into account that the values and fluids of anti-fascism require our constant care and our constant attention, and thus the need for constant protection from any demeaning, neglect and dissuasion of various contemporary totalitarian forms and attempts of various totalitarian ideologys and individual excesses, the need to adopt such a declaration is necessary. We all know well here, because each of the MPs received an initiative individually, which was not only given to the Croatian President of the Croatian Parliament, but also to each MP, as I said, submitted to the Union of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of the Republic of Croatia for the launch of the debate on the place and role of the anti-fascist struggle of the people of Croatia, as well as the rights of its participants. And just by respecting these views and precisely on this initiative, the SDP Club presents this declaration as once again our clear unequivocal position suggests that the Assembly adopts it and thus presents itself in this very sense that our highest legislative, legislative, legislative, our most representative body is taking on an unequivocal expression of the meaning of the anti-fascist movement not only as a pledge to our future, but also as our commitment to the current action on the way to Europe. So as I said and as I said in this declaration by the SDP Club, it is said that Croatia has undoubtedly shown its anti-fascist foundation and constitutional determination, however it has not always been followed especially in the last 15 years by an adequate relationship to the anti-fascist struggle, generally according to the anti-fascist heritage which is seen at the end and in the very rights of the participants of the People's Liberation War. It is therefore proposed, firstly, and specifically in the declaration that the Republic of Croatia continues to treat the monumental heritage of NOB, which is a common cultural good, paying further attention to protection, maintenance and renewal. We can say that during the coalition government and a significant part of that monumental heritage was restored. The Republic of Croatia should also ensure that young generations are familiar with the full truth about II through school textbooks. The world war and the anti-fascist struggle with which he is rightly proud. But even today, the truth has been made a significant shift in recent years, but also today on its own, in some historical textbooks, especially in basic school textbooks, we still have such data that are not essentially true but forgeries of a newer history and sometimes the very meaning and regime of NDH as a criminal creation. Even in some legislative texts, my colleague Cain spoke of the name of the Croatian Homeland Army, which never existed as such and under that name, while the name of the partisan squad and the Yugoslav army was used for the People's Liberation Army even though it was established in 45. Many streets, squares and institutions whose names were associated with the People's Liberation Battle were renamed precisely from 1990 to 2000. So according to their data, more than 3,000 monuments were destroyed, destroyed or removed, and mentioning the characteristics of the anti-fascist struggle, and the perpetrators mostly how regular the code is, when dealing with explosives, whether monuments are being destroyed, or monuments or someone's house is being torn down, little who or no one has been discovered, and then I don't even say how successful we were, or how successful the state could have been then and successful in processing such ones. It is not in the system of financing defence and veteran organisations as they did from the Homeland War, and in this respect it is necessary to correct this injustice and the Republic of Croatia, this is required by this declaration to provide financial assistance to the Union of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists of the Republic of Croatia as well as to defence associations arising from the Homeland War. And in this way, the Republic of Croatia does nothing but what the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported since 1993, following the decision of the World Veteran Federation of Lisbon, where states are obliged to ensure equal treatment for all freedom and independence fighters. The Republic of Croatia should also equalise the rights of all wartime military disableds by respecting the principle of equal physical damage that is also worth equal disability. We can see that, in that sense, NOB fighters since 91 have been denied in such rights by 63%. It is sought in the same way that Croatia would be convincing in what is proud, what should be proud and what it will do this year, so on the eve of this great anniversary of the 60th anniversary to undertake to bear the cost of the funeral of fighters, anti-fascist fighters from World War II as well as dead and dead members of the Croatian Army. And what is particularly important is that persons who were convicted, persecuted and abused during World War II by the fascist regime for their anti-fascist beliefs and actions to provide them with the same rights as former political prisoners, and what even the past 60 years has been very little about and not only those who have politically acted but also those who have suffered women, the deaths of children in camps that were small camps in Molat, Rab and other Dalmatian places, but who have been endless in their suffering. It may be enough to read only one part of the book "Mother Speaks" by Czech Nobel laureate Jirgi Marek, who speaks of this problem. It's an earthquake of words about the injuries of little children. These little children were killed on these very islands in those camps of Molat and Rab. These families, those children still alive never got any satisfaction. They don't even ask Croatia for such compensation. I think it would be appropriate for our authorities to also be held silent during the coalition government was one initiation in that sense and done, even though it is silent on this plan and it is clear why, because even then Yugoslavia has never received the funds for this kind of compensation. The Croatian Parliament is also required to be the sponsor of the celebration of anti-fascist holidays, and on its own... Istria, Rijeka, Zadar and the island motherland when that day Italy and that official Italy, that day they celebrate it, that day they do not celebrate it, but mourn it that day and it is for them a day of sorrow, a day of memory. So it's a state holiday for them. After all, on several occasions by the highest Italian officials, even several ministers, from the Deputy Prime Minister where they openly said they were sorry for the historic Italian countries saying exactly about Dalmatia, Istria and our cities. I therefore believe that the Croatian Parliament will accept this declaration and thus commit itself, as well as all state bodies in the Republic of Croatia, and also then invite other social institutions, invite other citizens to protect the fundamental values of anti-fascist combat by their overall actions. I think that the time has passed and that indeed we as a Croatian people, as Croatian citizens, should show once again the maturity that we are as a people, that as citizens we are able to condemn everything that has been bad in our past, but also accept and be proud of what we are as a people and as citizens rightly should be proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35854	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35855	How incorrect that was, but here I am going to count. Young generations must be familiar with the anti-fascist struggle and therefore needs this declaration. Then mentions the SAB, and then the SAB of the Republic of Croatia is not in the system of financing defence associations, etc. etc. I'm asking my colleague Anticevic what they are. The anti-fascists worked 45 years, why didn't they bring that declaration? What are you as their followers, because the party was then, the party is still today, which you, while you were in power, did not bring this declaration in coalition power? And this SAB, please, have you ever heard the word SAB by the 1990s than was my dear, SuBNOR - the Union of the Association of Fighters of the People's Liberation War of Yugoslavia. And this SAB, well it's destruction, it's one word raving on history. Well, whatever you want, well, history is tragic enough for us, so we don't have to soak it with lies to make it even more tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35856	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35857	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mrs. Ingrid has said a number of inaccuracies, I would like to correct the following. She said the intention was to make their declaration, so the SDP club is bound to mark 60 years of anti-fascism. If it had been intended then they would have proposed a decision to mark 60 years of anti-fascism, and this proposal has the character of demagogy, of pamphlets and... is primarily ahead of local elections. Furthermore, if they want to equalise the rights of war and disability, they told the NOB with a warman from the Homeland War, where their wartime civilians are the people of the Homeland War. Where are their disabled wars, where the other people are disabled? So this is pure pamphlet and demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35858	And the esteemed representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35859	Thank you, Mr. President. I actually agree with everyone who thinks this topic is completely unnecessary today on the agenda and I think it brings us back to the past and divides and I don't know who needs it, but now I'm going to fix something. So I disagree and it's not true that the Partisan movement everywhere was anti-fascist. I'm not questioning him in Istria because he did a historic work, but in my neighborhood to establish what he did. The people's government killed thousands of people, and twice more had to leave that area so that they could establish their power. So the cross road and everything else talks about the antifascism of such partisans, and not to mention who it's about, you can, so you read Sima Dubajic yourself. So he says he didn't get sober in Kočevsky Rog for 15 days, one day he was killing and the other he was drinking to wash his conscience. So should these partisans be evened with volunteers from the Homeland War?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35860	We're going to a club debate. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35861	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, the question is why is it such an important thing that stands as a general place in our Constitution, so antifascism as one of the general values of our country and society, given that the preamble is, then, our history. Why the 2005 declaration, one or the other? Especially the first one proposed by IDS. However, the things in life, the things in practice, the things in everyday life, the way they are in school textbooks, the way they are in the state of the monuments of antifascism, the way they are in the value system in the everyday life of our society obviously give us a lot of motives and a lot of reasons to think about how much and the provisions of our Constitution are an integral part of the value of our life and the value of our society. My colleague Cain said that this government is indeed doing everything to free himself from that part of the heritage that not only belongs to the European circle of values but seriously compromises the free idea of Croatia and Croatia's state independence. However, we must say that even the monument of Vojni Bakic in Western Slavonia, the uprising of the people of Western Slavonia, has not been restored to this day. And it's not just a monument important to the history of the region, but at the same time it's about one of the artistic monuments, the monuments of artistic range and the artistic value that was brought down in 91st year. The same is true for Dusan Djamonje's monument on Petrovo Gora which is abandoned, devastated, and which as such is certainly a significant place, one of the most important monuments of antifascism in Croatia by quality and by value. Someone's gonna say, so there are other things that haven't been restored. Well, I'll say, there's not even a house in the Clay where the beauty of ours is still marked the way it's supposed to be. There are few states that know where their anthem is composed, in which they vote, with which people and in which place. And there are few states that are with... relations to that fact as we treat that historical fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that, I have certain thoughts, but this is not the time to say it. And I wish I didn't have to remind you of that. I wish I could take my friends to a place like that. And in Clay, in that house, and on Peter's mountain where that monument is. The same goes for sure, but now we can't build it, I wish I could build it with my kids and my kids can take my friends and we can be proud of one fact and another. But we didn't build that. In a way, speaking great words about ourselves, we gave up important points of our history. Or if we didn't deny them then we forgot, neglected them and abandoned them. In that sense, what the IDS colleagues wanted regardless of direct motives has a good intention. To warn of what we should warn about daily. In this sense, of course, this applies to other places, and to monumental features that probably have less artistic and monumental value than these two I mentioned. When it comes to textbooks, of course, we will all be proud of the fact that the president of our country and the president of our government for 60 years of victory over fascism and about 60 years of a new Europe which we, I hope, will soon be able to join as an equal member of the free states, and that our children in schools do not have real lessons about what this free Europe has brought freedom. Which also brought freedom to that free Croatia. I'm not just talking about Istria, islands and other general places that can be heard in the speeches we have here today and otherwise. I am talking about a system of values, one system of values that is preserved by today's Europe and which is based on Croatia and which should become an integral part of the daily system of values of children taught. And in the textbooks, unfortunately, there's no such thing. There is no real knowledge of these values, and take the textbooks in Germany, take only the propaganda materials of the German Red Cross and especially of the youth active within that Red Cross, so you will see how this German refers to the values, on the one hand humanitarianity, but at the same time according to the values that compromised it during II. World War I, that means Nazism. And according to those who, in one way or another, advocate the restoration of what is called Nazism. We don't have that. Our children are at least lost in this regard. Our teachers left so-called freedom to choose whether one textbook will or another textbook in this regard. And actually the thing is, let me say something now that I thought maybe I shouldn't say, but I'll say it anyway. And there's actually no better place for some kind of direct speech than the Parliament, at least when it comes to politicians. It's better than somewhere else. What exactly happened to our 90's antifascism, better say than 91's on here? In a conflict between anti-Communism and communism, anti-fascism has been affected and its values as stable, political and cultural values of Croatian reconstruction are still not very high. In the clash between Croatia and those who acted against Croatianism, and often and a good part of those who are members of my community suffered antifascism. And that's what to say. And we need to face what and we need to face the fact that the period of conflict between communism and anti-Communism, between Croatia and anti-Croatianism is behind us. And those who speak in that direction speak not only in good faith, they speak according to the facts. Therefore, if we want a viable, tolerated, pluralist country, for European values, also a prepared state, then we will free ourselves of these reflections and restore the values of antifascism because the exact values of antifascism are those that offer strong civil solidarity, civil tolerance and civil consensus in Croatia as they offer it and enable it in other countries in Europe and in Europe alone as a whole. Therefore, the issue of antifascism for us is a question of real, free life in differences and indeed in the best idea of freedom Europe faced in the 20th century. In that sense, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I will agree that those who want to strengthen ties with the tradition of antifascism, with the values of antifascism, who want to highlight the fact of the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism, not only will we solidarity but also support it. But I think it's a question of course past the declarative character and past the character of appropriate declarations. It's just a matter of everyday life, an effort through the education system, at least it's a matter of privilege. Some people do feel damaged, but many feel more damaged and injured in what they are not recognised as part of Croatian freedom. A lot more than their pension isn't as much as they think it should be. I believe that also the members of my community, Serbs, also think it is not fair that their share, and their role, are here some names mentioned with the right, which compromise this movement, there is no dispute among those who today interpret antifascism, but also should be said that there are those who will highlight Croatian antifascism but will not say who is everything in it and how he contributed. Sometimes it is difficult because some people, as I have already said in the first part of my speech, have hardly disgraced that part of Croatia and the history of the Serbs in Croatia, but we are not going to wipe out a light period of erasing certain indisputable facts and give up something that allows us not only declarative but that we really live in harmony with the values that are in European. In that sense, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, of course we are grateful to you as well as to the promoters for allowing this kind of debate. The debate will certainly have a greater reach than the very declarations that we will eventually adopt, for this debate as well as for all other discussions of this kind we certainly are because it helps us not only face some facts but also change them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35862	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35863	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect for Mr. Pupovac to have good intentions by putting this topic on the agenda. There is almost a sign of equality between those who destroy and raise monuments to the players of the Homeland War and those who deceive these topics to the Croatian Parliament, because one and the other brings us back to division and the past. And I don't understand what's wrong with the textbooks, is it that they don't learn anymore that the Day of Uprising in Croatia is in... when Chetnica made Ustasha patrol. I mean, which is incorrect in these textbooks that you all have comments from IDS, SDP, now here's the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35864	Correction further, Mr. Ivo Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35865	Mr. Pupovac, as usual in his very emotional speech, said several inaccuracies, so let me first connect to this one how injustice must be corrected in the textbooks of bad history. Well, fellow Pupovac, colleagues and fellow MPs, so every normal man is an anti-fascist, an anti-Naziist who can invoke evil, the greatest civilization value is human, but Europe and the world are in the 20th century strefil three great evils, Communism, fascism and Nazism. Two o'clock. World War II taught us that 46 million people were killed and in the name of proletariat dictatorship more than 100 million people were killed, in the worst possible way they were persecuted, it was a disaster to think of gas chambers, but it was also happening in the gulases, didn't we in Croatia have concentration camps of the island of Grgur, Goli island, Jasenovac worked on... until 48 years, read Vladimir Dedira everything can be respected but it can't be said that he was pro-Croatian-oriented, etc. So we condemn an evil called Communism, fascism, and Nazism, that's what they came up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35866	Thank you, correcting Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35867	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Pupovac is not exactly suggesting that the IDS Club Declaration and the SDP Club are well-intentioned. If they were well-intentioned, they wouldn't have brought this declaration if we could even discuss it in the Croatian Parliament but would have left it to someone called a historian. And we in the Croatian Parliament have often become, that's what I'm going to say in my debate to the state's attorneys, so here we have become smart and we become historians. And you in one of your special ways want to even the history of 50 years with the one from 1990. Since 1990, this history is special, this history is healthy, this history is Croatia, this history is pure, and in 1941 to 1945 history belongs to the Croatian people and this history is written positively and negatively, and from 1945 to 1990 this history was written with positive pages of the Croatian people but at the expense of the Croatian man and those who held power for 50 years in the so-called so-called Croatian people. Yugoslavia was victorious over its own people and easily defeated by the bare-armed own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35868	Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Club of HSLS, LS and DC, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I consult with my conscience. You see, jokes are never a waste, just like that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my feelings are truly ambivalent when we are discussing antifascism today on April 6, 2005. I don't think that date was chosen. They say Heldrin has said what poets have said in a scarce time,...what a declaration exactly at this time when I think some other things are more important. I don't think anyone here will question the fact that it's 2. World war over, it looks very funny but you know, dear gentlemen, I'm here not only today but I've been in battles for a better past, and I've seen some people very unhappy about how some battles ended exactly the way they ended. And I think no matter how wrong it may be for us from this distance that some battles are over and anti-fascism is European civilization value, unwarranted. Now, the whole problem with us is that we obviously didn't define antifascism, you know. As usual, these categories of concepts are completely empty, so each of us adds to the categories he wants and so on. My colleague, before I go out, says he needs to get out of history, he really needs to get out of history, and I need to turn to the future, and I'm experiencing these two declarations, either antifascism is in danger, so we need to defend him or it's something else. You see, as a liberal, I'm afraid of both left and right turns because liberals are always bad colleagues, Jurjevic, when they're in action and one and the other turns, and you, and all of you, I have a lot of right to say because then it's a civil substance that gets hurt. Is it both against the citizens? Against the citizens. Against citizens, against civic values and normal lives. Both. Both left and right turns. No, not all antifascism. Bolshevism can't be antifascism. It can't be. And very often there is antifascism in our textbooks and in our textbooks behind the Bolshevism. I'm a true anti-fascist. It's true. I don't have either my client or my worldview has left or right turns. I'm scared of the reviewer, I'm afraid. I heard them today. On the left and on the right. I'm afraid of the reviewers. I'm afraid right now when we're writing history from some strange perspective. From the perspective of a winner who doesn't care in any way, he doesn't care about what really happened, what really happened. And I'd really be happier if we had absorbed some things. It's like a civilization value. I protested the rise of all monuments in Osijek in 1991 when it was not easy to do, when some monuments flew into the air. I thought that wasn't good. And now that this happened in Murter and what, now that this happened and in Kumrovec, I don't think that's good because those messages we send to the world are not wise messages. And that shows us that some things are not clear to many, but that some people are not clear, but I find it very unclear why the state doesn't sanction it because it has a right and it has to sanction it. Someone here was talking about the Constitution today. I'm thinking of a colleague of Cain and a colleague of Pupovac. I was sitting on the Constitutional Commission in 1990, and it was really consciously embedded. No one then objected in the commission that precisely elements of ZAVNOH, antifascism became elements, elements of the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. He wouldn't have taken part in that commission in any way if it hadn't been for that. Because it's this fact that legitimateizes us as a civilized European, anti-fascist people and society. And we mustn't forget that. This must not be a story for external use. It's our reality. But now I'm going to tell you my experience. Just when I was speaking as a liberal. The Day of Liberation of Osijek was celebrated in Osijek by the year 1990 when units of the National Liberation Army entered the city. I never took on that day after that and put flowers and crowns in one place where it was intended to be worn, these flowers and crowns. Why? Because before 1945, there was a beautiful monument to Frangesh's dying soldier's homeland that had nothing to do with World War II. Which, perhaps, is our most beautiful secession monument where it is just talking about the tragedy of Croats who fought on other people's sides and who died for other people's interests and then some smart anti-fascist who certainly wasn't, took that monument off and removed it and never talked about it. I said: "Lords of anti-fascists, if you want the mayor to come to you, then at least apologize. Because you removed a beautiful monument. And the one that was shot down, I protested in September 1991 when it was shot down. Because he shouldn't have been knocked down."... I remember. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you see these things, and that's why I say that liberals get hurt by both, both left and right, because there's no understanding. You see, it's been 15 years. No one has ever apologized to the citizens of Osijek for removing a beautiful monument. And that's inadmissible. As inadmissible as any monument is to be removed. And that's why I'm really asking you to bring this country into this country so that I can't have left turns being positive, right negative. Or vice versa. Or vice versa. Because that, it can't go like, like a civilization norm of behavior. A man should fight with everyone, with everyone. That's exactly what we all need to fight about. Because we can't learn any historical lessons. [[Applause]] And then he said "Santajana": "My Lords, until you learn history you can repeat it." And we Croats show that we are the best students of this very syntagma, and maximum. That we can't learn our history, and then we have to keep repeating it. And here's what's going on and now and 60 years after antifascism that we need some things, some things to underline. On the other hand, are they human rights, is it their place in the declarations? I'll let them know they did, maybe they didn't. But I think they're human rights, are, are an inseparable part of our daily life. That they should not be specifically mentioned in the declaration. The invalids are disabled. Those people who were traumatized, who suffered in any way. Those who have been arrested must, in some way, have, it belongs to other laws that will be determined precisely, that very fact that someone suffered simply because he was, ideologically, not entirely, entirely acceptable to a particular, particular ideology. Now we live in pluralist society. It's possible they're both like this and this kind of debate. And in the Croatian Parliament, and I agree with my colleague Pupovac, it is actually the only place. But it would be very dangerous for us to become the place where we are tried and judged. History leaves historians. They should be allowed to act autonomously without being given any option by politics, giving them no green light. It is then, then indeed history, history becomes a servant of politics and it is not good. We have these negative, tragic experiences and they're, they're even more tragic because it's a small nation. There was a representative here before me who spoke a lot. He says, "And Russia, Russia, no matter what it will be, it's either totalitarian or it's always a force." We can't afford the luxury of acting, acting, acting differently. And so I would really pray, really pray that we get together and finally choose this essential third time, a path that, to free these red and black, will free us from these battles for a better past. Which some battles will leave as they are, but precisely to the people who have suffered in any way in their lives, they must suffer, they must be, they must be admitted in some way. I recently said in Osijek on the occasion of these events people's protection, the beginning of the Homeland War: "Not to create... And some of the Sudanese elements of that and some of the privileges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a privilege to be a participant of these events. It is a privilege for every man who has been chosen by time, who has experienced it and not after that seeks privileges, but those who have said they have suffered, who in some way can no longer participate equally in this life match, their society must be in an adequate way that will be none, which will be no gift but simply a fact that stems from the normal legislation of the Republic of Croatia." And I want to look at the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, I want to believe that we are a neutral society, and I do not want to believe in the declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35870	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Damir Caine, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35871	Okay. My dear friend Kramaric, I would like to say that none of the pronouns are likely to lead a battle here for a better past. It's exactly the opposite. The battle to correct certain ideological but also material wrongs made by a generation of old proud people. So those pension, disability, those that concern me, I don't know social rights. It just can't be an acronism. It's not a battle for a better past. It's a battle simply, it's an existential battle for a moment where 60,000 people live at this time. And that is the basis why we gave our declaration in the parliamentary procedure to encourage, to encourage after that the writing of a law that will correct a historical injustice according to that category of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35872	Thank you. Opinion, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Kramarić, in enthusiasm, first said that our concepts were not defined, and then I oppose that, and I am correcting it, matching the left policy option with natifashizno. It's not only incorrect, it's dangerous. And antifascism is not the property of any policy options. He is the property of all democratic forces, I hope it is no longer disputed in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35874	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, although I fully support my colleague Kramaric's speech has been corrected by one inaccuracy. The Croatian people who Mr Kramaric is not a small people but a few people. For the power of a nation is not only from its number but from spiritual and other values. For example, it's... The people of Israel, the Palestinian people are small nations by the number of their members but great nations in their struggle for their values and for their freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35876	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35877	Honored Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. For today's topic, I can argue that I am a rare case for our politicians satisfied that there is no television transmission. Because I believe that this debate should not be heard by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Two days ago we had an unusual event in the Republic of Croatia the event of self-inflation of the Croatian defender. The Croatian defender poured gasoline and lit himself on fire. He committed suicide. There have been several such events in history and they are all recorded in the media, and the world's public discusses them. We remember Prague and some other self-incinerations that have occurred in the last 50 years. However, Frane Smolić, who committed suicide, obviously did not have such treatment in the Croatian media, mostly very little today in the debate whether he was suffering from PTSD or perhaps from some psychiatric disease. And this is our reality in which we are today discussing two declarations of anti-fascism that offer a substantial equalisation of the rights of those who fought with defenders from the Homeland War among whom Frana Smolic was deceased. After a speech by an esteemed colleague, Kramaric is difficult to maintain his emotions because his colleague Kramaric spoke very emotionally. And in principle, on behalf of the party, I can support the thesis that went through his speech, which could be translated into words of what we needed. Who, and why, remembered at this time and in this context put such proposals in the debate at the Croatian Parliament. Mostly in the context of Croatian defenders and their rights. We think we didn't need this anyway. Discussions are ideologically necessary, of course, in the Croatian Parliament. However, they should be quality prepared and should not have an election character such as these two proposals for declarations on such serious topics as antifascism. By listening to the proposer reading the text and even discussing some colleagues, I wondered which country I lived in until I was thirty and some years old because obviously me and the promoters didn't live in the same country. The Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia, which included the Socialist Republic of Croatia, cannot even count anymore. We obviously didn't live in the same country. In the same totalitarian communist system. Because if it were true that some of the views in these declarations could certainly not be written in this way. We in HSP were manifesting anti-fascism as one civilization as the liquids say. The values of antifascism are unquestionable. And none disputes them nor does the HSP, but under the cover of antifascism, a lot has been swept away. Antifascism also has a form of content. Communism and the totalitarian system that penetrated Croatia's 50-year-old country was under cover of anti-fascism. Because antifascism is also Stalin's Bolshevism and Yugoslav communism. They're also antifascisms. However, they were very far away from those values of antifascism which today the proponent and all those who speak positively of antifascism are certainly calling for by neglecting everything else hidden under the cover of antifascism. There was not, of course, antifascism and French and German. That's the one that the proposings are obviously invited to. Forgetting there's someone else. What a symbol of what a colleague said to a certain gentleman. Which, according to the proposal today, the two declarations should be equal to their rights with, for example, their rights. The Dead Treasure of Zadrom. Which is offensive to all Croatian defenders. And I believe for all Croatian citizens. This is an offensive proposal that comes from a more generally acceptable thesis that every disability is equal. But there's a lot to put into it. Like what? In the SDP declaration, it says, all wartime military invalids respecting the principle and so on. The principle sounds nice, but the question is, who are all these military cripples? What categories are these? Is it possible that those who are after the five-pointers came out of town of Kramaric remembers well from a military station in Osijek and started shooting at the citizens of Osijek? You're also calling yourself antifascism because that's what you're saying. The anti-fascists committed a five-point aggression on us. Which we had nothing to defend. For a time they called for anti-fascism and then they put on four Ss and then it ended up as you already know the equalisation in the Belgrade parliament, so now the Chetniks have equal rights as the Partisans. No one's talking about it. Are these the same anti-fascists we want to promote here through this declaration? Antifascism is not controversial. And its values are today's values of modern Europe. There's no question about that. However, if we are in this principle for righteousness and for the principle of righteousness, when we talked about the Homeland War and how we advocated that we must see some other side of the Homeland War medal as a people and as a politics. I'm surprised and it's very hypocritical of those who don't want it on this subject. Who are not willing to admit that there is a crime of the winner. And I believe you don't have to prove to anyone that after and during the so-called. People's liberating struggles and especially after the end of the war operations committed a terrible crime. Is there any doubt about that? Which, of course, no one has answered to this day. No one. No one was convicted of crimes committed in the name of antifascism. When they're ready to propose, then I'll believe them to have honorable intentions. If we're talking about these topics. War crime doesn't get old, we all know that. Accordingly, there is a possibility even in the legal procedure there are proposals, but no one has become a question at least not from the proposings of another party when anyone will be prosecuted for crimes committed in World War II. When it is done at least symbolically, when the wheat is separated from the weeds then we can debate and believe the principles that are mentioned here. Until that happens, there's no conversation, we stay on those same thesis, the five-point, the tanks, that's what we've all had a chance to see, or we haven't lived in the same state. And I think that we lived in the same country, in the one where I was taught as a child with a red scarf that history that clearly someone wants to return to Croatian textbooks. Of course it needs truth, historical truth, it needs to be pursued, but which no one has yet established, nor who has the right, or someone thinks politics should be established, political parties. There are historians and let them determine the historical truth. And what we used to learn in textbooks by the time we were 90, God forbid our children read. But many of these names appeared naturally in the 1990s, 91st, 92s, in some other contexts, let them also on television, like those who are aggressive about Croatia, so it would not be good to have their names re-emerged in textbooks. The truth certainly but the truth above all about the Homeland War. There is no truth about this Homeland War. If he has mentioned it in several sentences in today's textbooks, our children, our children who were born in this Homeland War today do not learn the true truth, that truth is silenced. One who proposes in Croatia equalising the rights of any major category with the rights of Croatian disabled Homeland War, not Croatian defenders. Here for this speaker, here I am an 8-year-old representative, 15 times I repeat Croatian defenders have no pension, the NOB fighters only had pensions because they were fighters, 15 years of martial law and pension. Croatian defenders don't, they're unemployed, they pour gasoline when they live on 400 kuna social aid. Croatian wartime disabled people have pensions and status, with 28 thousand of them. And Croatian defenders have some rights, they're supposed to get shares, they'll be divided. Here's the question I asked in the House in writing where the dividend money was, I got an answer that embarrassed me publicly. You don't know where the Croatian defenders' money is. We'll probably find out where the dividend money is. Any demand for equalisation of rights means that, since we all know the economic situation well, there are tens of thousands of people logical and it is a clear conclusion that someone must be taken. Who? Croatian defenders? So in 2005, does someone dare suggest that the rights of Croatian defenders be reduced in order to give to those who allegedly fought for Croatia. It's just that they fought for Croatia that I hear today in my 40s and some year. Because by the time you were 90, you were writing and speaking to me at school, teaching basics, coming on anniversary, and nobody mentioned Croatia. Everyone talked about the peoples and peoples of Croatia and talked about fighting for Yugoslavia. And they were members of the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan squads of Yugoslavia. It's the exact name of a military formation that worked during World War II. And later, of course, it was called the Yugoslav Army. The members of you, these armies are about them in these declarations. Their acquired rights weren't compromised, they never were. God forbid the Croatian defender has some of those rights that the NOB fighter had during Yugoslavia, God forbid. Not at all, there's no right at all. He's right when he's 65 years old on his pension, if he doesn't have anything else, and maybe he gets some shares. And the health care of the law has no gentlemen, colleagues. They have Croatian military disableds, but only the first four groups. Also on the car. So 100%, I and II groups, 80% have no. So let's not fool ourselves. Croatian defenders do not have the rights of others, and NOB fighters have more rights than Croatian defenders in this logic. And now the question is, what's the declaration, who dares to ask for some kind of equalization in the first place? If it's about pensions, it's an absurd situation. She talks about taking Croatian defenders and giving NOB fighters. And it certainly can't be in any context acceptable, there's no argument for that. They fought for Yugoslavia, they claimed all their lives. And that's what they did. Of course, in the '90s, it began to change a little bit and now it wants to legalise itself with this declaration that whoever was fighting was fighting for Croatia. Maybe. It's a matter of interpretation, a matter of history and a matter of politics, but in no case falls within the daily policy and pre-election declaration. And it's not fair of colleagues from these parties who have proposed such a topic before the local elections because of, for example, the IDS coalition's IDs with the SAB of 7,000 members, two on the list. It is not weight, it is not correct because of such pre-election needs to cause divisions in the Croatian people, to return, to dig through the womb, to call for the past and to expect the future. No, it's not fair of you colleagues. These are simple electoral, pre-election political pamphlets that do not deserve to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. And they are offensive to Croatian defenders and you need to think about it. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35878	My colleagues, before I give my word to the proposer, we have four corrections to the incorrect assumption. First, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35879	The declaration was said to propose a reduction of rights to Croatian defenders. But completely incorrect. It's nowhere in the declaration, it's not just inaccuracy, it's a harsh insinuation with intent to offend the promoters. Secondly, antifascism is equated with the crimes committed in this antifascism. It's a mistake. Look, in the history of the Catholic Church, there are holy Heroes, an Inquisition who burned people at the stake because of their free opinion, not only because of that and because of scientific knowledge. And that fact cannot force us to condemn or reject the doctrine of the church as a whole. Because if we resonate like that, then we're making a terrible logical mistake called "pars prototo" and in which we can get to everything, and certainly not the truth. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35880	Thank you. Correction of Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35881	So according to what my colleague Stazic has corrected. So nowhere, where you read it, that the promoter, both the SDP and I believe so am colleague Cain, where you read it that the SDP Club in its declaration foresees a reduction of the rights of defenders. No, it's nothing less than equalizing the rights of those who fought these rights in World War II. And if you don't want to, then you should say it. So the insinuations of what happened in the '90s or that someone under someone's symbols committed a crime, so it's not, there's no symbol under which no crime was committed. Let's release the symbols now, but this isn't about symbols, this is about people. And if you think that these people who fought in World War II and half of Croatia would almost not be Croatia today, then be free and here to say it so openly, but don't plant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35882	We're still going by that opinion, you know. Anto Djapic came forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35883	Mr. Vice-President, a colleague and co-worker from the SDP are correcting incorrect courts, not correcting the incorrect allegations, as counterpart Jukic said on behalf of the Club that the requirement for equalising the status of defenders of the Homeland War and NOB fighters stems from reducing the rights then to defenders because there is no money. He was more than decided. So it's a polemic with an attitude, and it's not a polemic with an incorrect on... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35884	In this way, the article that was injured was not said, and besides that, it is true that you have observed it. However, while I am sitting it will be maximum tolerance to talk about anything that is related to it. So I won't interrupt anyone, but I'll warn you from time to time. Here. Now it's time to correct Mr. Ivo Lonchar's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35885	counterpart Vlado Jukic said any equalisation between NOB fighters and Homeland War defenders is not possible. My colleague Yukic, unfortunately, is possible. Today, Croatian defenders are out of line, and these NOB fighters and those alleged anti-fascists were enough to bring in two witnesses, and then they had a pension, two witnesses who testified to them that they were in the woods. I'll tell you from my neighborhood, one man, I'll say his name too, his name is Jugo Ninkovic. Two of them testified to him that he was three times in the forest of bia that led bread under the salt. The bread under the roast as it was said below, and the man enjoyed his retirement for 20 years. That's the antifascism, and you can see it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35886	We continue with the same, so the same argument to the argument. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35887	... counterpart Jukic is not true that this move in pre-election time is a declaration of one and the other. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] This is something more dangerous, and it is under the cover of anti-fascist heirs, they want to further ideologies what is in their souls, and this is the division of Croatian peoples with these moves. In the 1990s, the Croatian people came to terms with the prospect of ideologies not or under the cover of antifascism continuing what they were doing for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35888	You were also correcting opinions, not facts. But let's move on. On behalf of the promoter, one of the proposing Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35889	Honorable Mr. Vice President, distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives. First of all, I'm going to try to respond to a few of the poles that were heard here. The IDS has not abolished anyone's rights especially to the Homeland War fighters and the disabled. I don't know who mentioned it, now perhaps Mr. Jukic. We've always talked about this speaker not to end under quotes so-called. The rights of the disabled are thus acquired and the fighters of the Homeland War because we will repeat against them the injustice we have done to the fighters of the People's Liberation War. I keep the IDS here honest. We really don't have any hidden intentions, we don't politicize. This declaration wasn't written for some pre-election time. The second thing is when she comes to the agenda and finally Mr. Yukic we are really proud to go to the elections together with the Alliance of Anti-Fashist Fighters. The second thing I'm saying is, the basic intensity of this declaration is an attempt to correct the injustice of one generation. The injustice when pensions are due, disability, social rights and I, as I said before, don't experience anacronism. I am pleased, on the other hand, that individuals among others and in HSP have given up a little bit or that they have to give up or that they will have to give up their own rigid attitude towards the people's liberation struggle if they want international legitimacy. Such a catharsis must go well, and Mr Djapic will not mind me, and Mr Djapić will have to mention you by name, you will not blame me. But what is most important today is that the values of NOB can be discussed incomparably more calmly, I dare say more soberly than it was yesterday when we know how HDZ reacted while the coalition was in power or during Franjo Tudjman. What's that on the other hand saying? He's saying that tolerance in some way has advanced in this country, and then it's not very little. It's keeping in mind that until yesterday it was perfectly legitimate to walk in black shirts on our streets, but not only the streets bigger in this House, it's the progress that everyone notes regardless of what may be in fashion again black. So today we're ready to open up and say NOB was positive for Croatia. NOB affirmed Croatia on the side of the World War II winner and I repeat, without NOB, Croatia would be less by one-third, without Istria, without Rijeka, without Zadar, island etc. And that's certainly true. On the side and the fact that even during World War II, it means on the side of NOB what Mr. Jukic was talking about, there was also an overrun of the necessary defence. It's true, and it particularly offends that it happened after World War II ended. The truth may not have been established yet, the judicial authorities have not survived, but there is no excuse for a revolutionary trial after the war is over. I think I've been completely unequivocal on this occasion. You can understand revenge by quotes, it can be understood that those who were killed in relatives camps, using revenge, but generally such a thing is unimaginable today, even though there were some similar things after 95. That's what I was gonna say. But no gentleman has the right to throw, and on the subject of the People's Liberation War. And it's not true, as Mr. Jukic says, that someone is now silent about the achievements of the Homeland War. Who's just doing it? There's no such thing. Who now proposes to take material rights to the disabled of the Homeland War and give to the fighters of the People's Liberation War. The circumstances in which that movement appeared were certainly more than specific. It was 41st. The whole of Europe was enslaved, England defended itself in the air, France capitulated in a few weeks, the Soviet Union at that time was losing battle after battle. What future was intended for Croatian citizens? Life in a puppet state where Pavelic installed Italy or Fascist Italy, which was given thanks to Dalmatia, and his picture was solved by some party premises or now solidarity with weaker and more resilient resistance. Well, in 91, it was not clear how it would all end, and the 41st uncertainty was certainly a hundred times greater. The parallels of the People's Liberation War, the fighters of the Homeland War. It's all right. I even admit what the Defense Associations say. They say these two wars are not one thing, I agree. But the question arises, is the hand of a partisans who lost her somewhere around Buzet in the year 43 worth as much as the hand of a young man who lost her around Gospić 93? What's the difference between the folk hero Joachim Rakovec and the treasure of Zadar? ... I just don't see it, gentlemen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then there's the question of how to show it now. So you can only show it to material rights, that's what it's all about. It doesn't matter what we call it now, the one/other declaration. It is important or important that there is no longer a distinction between the disabled, between the prisoners Jasenovac and Glog Otok and the so-called pensioner's so-called "retired" island. what we call the acquired rights that Mrs. Anticevic spoke of. That's the point. What does it mean to correct an injustice against one generation? So we don't put them in a subordinate position that they've been in since they were 91. For me, it's possible to do it in a way that these people try to get their rights back. I agree with Mr. Yukic to ask if it will cost the state? Well, they will, but gentlemen, it all costs money. Costs and debt repayments to pensioners, disability and severances, etc. So the funds need to be found. I know at this deficit, I don't know, with this unemployment, it's almost a vain mission. But that, gentlemen, is the last moment for something to be done in that area. I mean, and from, I won't talk about my family, etc., but I'll mention someone else. DAX, Dubrovnik, also mentioned. Well, that's where Grandpa Axel Lutenberger was killed, who was the last mayor of Dubrovnik City. I don't know, Jacob's father passed Dachau, then Goli Island. So all our families were in NOB, and then many, for example, left Istria, etc. So it's tragic that our past is of one Istria, and like, and Slavonia, I don't know, Dalmatia and so forth. But is this the Declaration where the word and the past are? No, this is, gentlemen, the Declaration, so we at least wrote it in the IDS trying to correct historical injustices. So, the return of these acquired pension rights, the return of disability, that persons who have passed Jasenovac were treated as political prisoners who had an accident to pass the Goli Island, health care. So it's not anacrylicism, it's the present and let these people, in their advanced age, live with dignity. Well, Mr. Pupovac said that in the face of anti-fascism and what was going on back in the '90s, not to mention, the 90s suffered anti-fascism. And so much of that antifascism value really needs to be restored. Because it is not possible for Croatia to build, develop, or democratisation, and for God's sakes to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35890	Thank you very much, but I would have warned my colleagues, I would have given it to myself as a right, not to engage and not to speak as some historians, and we haven't studied any of what we're talking about. And secondly, if possible, we do not judge because we cause permanent controversy. If it was directed to the electoral body in Istria, then you'd understand that. But 10 corrections of incorrect allegations, you'll agree that it's really gone beyond measure. But neatly, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will first give Mr. Peri Kovacevic the word for correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35891	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting several incorrect allegations even though I must conclude that Mr. Cain is consistent with his inconsistency. First thing he said, he says to whom are these rights abolished except for the partisans? Croatian defenders were abolished in 2001, it was bankruptcy rights, and you voted in favour of abolishing these rights That's right. [[Intruder: No.]] Next, he says what's the difference between Jakim Rakovec and General Blaga Zadar. [[Intruder: No.]] There's a difference, and there's a huge difference. The treasure of Zadar knows that he fought for this country and that's the important difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35892	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35893	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that the IDS has not abolished the rights of Croatian defenders. It's true that the IDS shut down along with... by coalition of rights to Croatian defenders, introduced an audit of thousands and thousands and thousands and parents and defenders lost their rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's true and remember her and don't ever do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35894	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35895	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Cain has said "The People's Liberation War" several times. That's not true. It is the so-called "National Liberation War" because when the People's Liberation War is said, I assume it's about the Croatian people, and the Croatian people were not free at that time. If he's freed then, I don't know who he was getting rid of 91. So he was getting rid of the liberator. It was partisan, Yugoslav, truth and anti-fascist, but it's not liberating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35896	Correction of an incorrect quote...... Snacka. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't get the word. Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35897	Mr. President, next to a series of inaccuracies, but I'll just say something. It is not true, colleague Cain, that the NOB can be discussed today more freely than at the time of HDZ, the HDZ led by Franjo Tudjman. First, the Croatian Democratic Community and its principles were created on the science of Starcevic, Radic and anti-fascism, that is one thing. And, sir, if so, in 1990, as you say, by the year 2000, how many people were killed at that time who were members of the People's Liberation Fight, how much was liquidated, how was that said, how many were imprisoned, how much was expelled? And in the full 45 years of the people's liberating fighters under the cover of antifascism filled the gaps in part of Croatia. In my area, from Cetina to Neretva, from 45, a colleague of Cain, to 50, more people were killed than 41 to 50. From Cetina to Neretva. It's an unknown to you, and I don't dispute what was done for Istria and for the Međimurje. And it's part of Croatian history. But why can you compare it, you're going to underline something you can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35898	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35899	... to underline, and to demean what has happened in both the Croatian state and the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35900	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35901	But sit down where you are, you can't talk anymore today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35902	I warn all of us that this is not a courtroom, but a Parliament and that we concentrate on what we're talking about. Mr. Niko Rebic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35903	It's not true, Mr. Cain, that until yesterday it was possible to walk in black shirts and not today. Mode can simply be banned from totalitarian systems. Black was forbidden when it reigned red, and it was known to last half a century. Today, fortunately, it can be black and red.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35904	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35905	Again, it is incorrect to quote fellow Caine who claims that there was no NOB that Croatia would be a third smaller. [[Intruder: Peaceful only.]] It is as much as the Croatian Army could. It is incorrect to quote fellow Cain that overcoming the necessary defense is the character of what happened after II. World War I. That's what he calls a crime. If that were the case, it was also the crime, the argument and the quote, he quoted Mr. Pisculine as saying. Let him go to Italy with that pee-pee, and he'll see how Mr. Pisqueline goes. They'll get handcuffs because the democratic and Italian state thinks it's not an overrun of the necessary defense, it's a crime. Well, I'm thinking about the F.B.I.s.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35906	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Stjepan Bačić, and then Jagoda, Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35907	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only hold on to one single word from this entire herd of Mr. Cain, and that word is injustice. It is incorrect that NOB fighters have been unfairly characterized, at least in the last 15 years. What injustice are we talking about? We're all old enough to know that 50 years of NOB fighters, especially first fighters, and those were very, very much privileged. They had better privileges, they had apartments, they got apartments in God's justice, they had higher incomes and they ran in every possible and impossible institution, from culture to health, etc. But I am afraid that the intention of this Declaration is not at all concerned about these fighters and champions such as the 60th anniversary of the victory of anti-fascism in Croatia and Europe, so we should also support it with our Declaration. I'm afraid it's something else, an attempt at a small door to reintroduce an ideology...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35908	Finish it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35909	... which fell by the fall of the Berlin Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35910	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35911	I'll have a brief look at the black colors that my colleague Rebic said about. Comrade Cain, it is not true that they do not wear black in the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Lucin always comes in a black shirt, and he's doing just fine with it. So let's play fashion details because Versace got world glory just in black, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35912	And finally correcting Mr. Frano Matušić's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35913	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Cain said that this declaration is an attempt to correct the injustice, it's simply not true. My colleague Cain, if it were real, if you wanted to correct the wrongs then perhaps one of the first demands would be to find criminals for those crimes that you mentioned yourself to say... where intellectuals were killed, people who just thought differently, who did nothing wrong to anyone, or even an ant. Or at least, if you wanted to correct the injustice, you would have asked for an audit of the rights acquired by those same fighters because we heard how they came to those rights. It would be an attempt to correct injustice, not that you today want to get a few points and a few votes before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35914	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the club debate, now it's up to the IDS Club and Mr. Representative Walter Poropat. Here you go. By the way, it's past registration time in 10 minutes at 17 and 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35915	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I hope that on behalf of the IDS Club, I will direct this debate precisely in the direction that we try to find ourselves all at the same frequencies and not on the corrections of incorrect allegations, we bring ourselves here in a situation that we simply outvote or I don't know what else. Starting with Croatia in the People's Liberation War qualified as a country in the victory round 2. World War II, which believes that the fundamental values of antifascism are uniformly accepted and affirming that antifascism is a civilizational fluid, a world view, a life view and that it does not agree with any ideology. And noting that those who are in 2. World War II was on the other side, and unless they committed crimes, neither should they nor should be permanently demonized. We welcome the commitment of the authorities and opposition in the Republic of Croatia to politically express their clear anti-fascist foundation, which is also firmly established in the European Union, we propose from the IDS Club to bring this Declaration of Anti-fascism to the Assembly, with which we would further consolidate and confirm the 60th anniversary of the victory of anti-fascism in Croatia and Europe. By joining the European Union in this way, where we belong. Please colleagues and colleagues not to identify antifascism with betterism or communism, and we will also avoid all our other differences. In our anti-fascism declaration, we will arrive first of all, that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, after critical and professional analysis, will include the truth about 2. The World War, on the fight of the Croatian people and other nationalities in Croatia, according to which the world is valorizing us positively. Secondly, to protect the restoration of anti-fascist monuments, to promote and encourage anti-fascist ideas that form part of the democratic public. YES, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, participants of the National Liberation War from 1941 to 1945 are equal to all the rights of defenders of the Homeland War. Fourthly, to equate the wartime wartime invalids of the People's Liberation War with the military disabled of the Homeland War, which is exactly what the president of the IDS Club Mr. Damir Cain said, so for what happened to those people in the same situation. Furthermore, that persons persecuted by the Ustasha order during 2. So World War II. World War II, which was imprisoned because of anti-fascist beliefs for having the same rights as those convicted of political delinquency after 1945, which is certainly for every conviction, has nothing to do with anti-fascism. Furthermore, to oblige the state authority to be the bearer of the marking of anti-fascist holidays that are of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. TO provide health care to participants of the People's Liberation War under the same conditions as those of the Homeland War. DA The Croatian Parliament invites all citizens, state institutions, associations and media to commit all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to promote the fundamental values of antifascism as a provision for Croatia's civilization tomorrow. In this way, colleagues and colleagues will safeguard the moral dignity of the Croatian people and of all Croatian citizens, and I hope this House will accept the IDS Antifascism Declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35916	Thank you very much. There is one correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35917	Mr. Vice President, my colleague said he's teaching us not to compare anti-fascism with communism and totalitarianism exactly what these proposals are doing these two declarations and we're fighting not to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35918	The National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Agent Nikola Mak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35919	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a special need to take the word in this debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club as a Croatian parliamentary representative and Germans and Austrians, but especially Jews, and Roma, and Russians and Russians and Ukrainians and Polishes, these are all minorities whose name I sit in this House and all other innocent victims among which were the most numerous Serbs, and as a German, once again express my deepest regret for the immense evil that German Nazism, along with its numerous versions, has inflicted millions of innocent people in Europe, Asia and Africa, along with the history of unremembered destruction, and suffering. This insane worldview has caused immense damage and suffering to both the German and Austrian peoples, both here and here on the ground of the then Yugoslavia. We here in Croatia without personal guilt have been found to be collectively guilty and paid the price in blood and misery in the concentration camps, so with the deepest conviction we condemn fascism and we believe that these convictions are never enough. But on this occasion today, I'm asking for two important things. First, with the condemnation of fascism, we will not include current political and existential problems related to anti-fascism, nor will we ask the question of condemnation of the one from which the coat of honor anti-fascism was threatened by the Germans, Austrians, and these were women, children and old men, not men and military bonds in the greatest misery and torment died in Krdne and Valpo. Without wanting to offend anyone in this honorable House whose member I am also believe that 4/5 of you do not know what Krndiya and Valpovo mean from 1945 to 1948. I'm afraid I know because I was there. Let us condemn fascism to this 60th anniversary of its fall, and let us address all open issues of antifascism with regular legal and political means. And secondly, let's bring in our anti-fascist act, which has been proposed here by two political parties by consensus, and if this is not possible by today, we still have time to do so by 9 May. Such an act has full meaning and value only if our Parliament adopts it unanimously or with a vast majority of votes, and then it will be the strongest and most credible confirmation of our membership in an anti-fascist Europe in which we wish to engage equally. At the end of this debate on behalf of the Fascism and Antifascism Club, please receive one piece of information. These weeks we're watching an interesting series where there's a significant place for "folks deutscheri". So the people I belong to. In one of the episodes, we saw a scene of revenge and the monstrous murder of Croatian peasants in the Slavonian grain field by a German military unit supported by a domestic "folks deutscher". Fortunately for me and for us, I say to you that in Slavonia for the whole war in reality there was no such thing, and it couldn't have been theoretically because the German army here was the visiting army, and yet this was the independent state of Croatia as it was. I don't want any controversy about it, and I'm allowing it to be the author's art freedom. But in the interest of Croatian German friendship which today has a very high price and not only from today and not just from the time of 1941-1945 but from a distant past should be told the truth and it should remain written down even in this parliamentary record. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35920	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Silvano Hrelja's turn on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35921	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian party of pensioners and I personally support the anti-fascism declaration of this proposal, and we will vote for the declaration even though we would be much more pleased that this declaration in the Croatian Parliament, that this declaration in the Croatian Parliament was discussed at the beginning of last year as Mr Cain promised the fighters of Istria, and that we would be happier to bring this declaration for ourselves to preserve and value anti-fascism, not on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism and not directly before the local elections. So I want to stress that this is necessary for our own sake and not for something to be worn at this point. In this way, the content and purpose of the declaration shall be subject to the occasion or occasion. Antifascism in today's Croatian spaces of Istria, Zadar and the island began much earlier and the promoters did wrong which they did not install in the declaration. During the period between the two world wars, antifascism had an international dimension on our premises because it grew from a working and highly organized working movement, but also a national dimension of preservation of Croatian, Slovenian or wider Slavic identity in the mentioned spaces. It is personal to me that antifascism is in the genes because of my family's injuries, and thanks to among other things, Istra is in Croatia today and it cannot be denied. My great-grandfather is an Istrian folk who was banished from fascism in the 20s and left a great value of 100 acres of land, pastures and oranics, trade and boat for ideas of Croatianism and wider celebrations. He was exiled, he came to Zagreb and in his 30s, he was sent to Janjevo, and he died of tuberculosis in the 30s. My uncle was shot by the Germans in 1943. The father-in-law who is still a living participant is the NOB in World War II with one difference. None of them ever asked for any perks. Neither the late grandmother, except for the thank-you note on the wall, has ever received any privilege and I have the right to speak of anti-fascism in this way that it is the sacred duty of our people and that they have paid her in blood. I personally do not approve of the privileges or over-privileged powers or the defenders of the Homeland War or the privileges of the fighters because they are essentially not helping. Both NOR fighters and defenders should be and should be reintegrationd and resociated into all segments of society. And they have to have equal rights, and it's best when they feel useful to themselves and society, and not that they're from, like a foll, they have rights, but they're nowhere, they're not anywhere. They've been shut out of everything. In the introduction of the proposal, the declaration cannot say that antifascism does not agree with any ideology. That could be said for Western democracy. But in these areas antifascism was perfectly suited to communism and self-government socialism. And there is a new deviation in Istria that the values of antifascism through certain leadership ambitions, the anti-fascist fighters' associations are used to support the idea of ruling Istria, which is not very good. I must also argue in a way that I was present here and with my colleague Ahel on the 60th anniversary of the AFZ in Raspor when the leader, Mr. Mariner, welcomed Mr. Cain on behalf of all MPs. I know that Mr. Caine is a favorite of fighters, but even in a protocol way, there's nothing you can do about it. First, he welcomed his fellow vice president, Mrs. Vesna Pusic, and then Mr. Cain, on behalf of all present parliamentary representatives, and there we were quite there. Nor can only IDS and SDP acquire anti-fascism fluids in Istria. There is also a Croatian party of pensioners, but also a Croatian People's Party whose statutes stand to respect, respect the liquids at least, at least, to respect the antifascism fluids, but I must openly say that from 30 meetings last year to three I received a call and two I responded. Therefore, there is a certain animosity to anyone who is out of the game. Despite all this despite a certain revolution, the Croatian Party of Retirement will support this declaration in the name of permanent values and the civilizational reach of anti-fascism. But it is also fair to say that this anti-fascism declaration will not, in itself, resolve the issues from the content of the declaration. And in the end, I cannot, or at the end, resist asking the promoters why they did not bring this declaration in 2000 when they were in charge or in power when they had a parliamentary majority and why they did not implement part of the content contained in this declaration. Either it was really supposed to wait for a good cause or a good cause. And it's not true that this declaration corrects the injustices of pension and other rights that doesn't seem to be declared by the laws. I personally hang you from my history and my family's history too much to appreciate anti-fascist fighters. To deceive them. I will always fight for their rights and support what is essential and I will fight for it in particular as part of solving the problem of the pension Corps because part of their problems is identical to all pensioners. And it's a lot more than just a few perks. But I'm also willing to show off every attempt to manipulate them. I will not appreciate it that much, or this is not the case with the management of the companies that have been paid and are exclusive to all ideas that are concrete to their employers. Once again, Croatia's pensioner party will support the declaration with a proposal to propose that it be processed. And we would certainly be interested in showing the Government of the Republic of Croatia on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35922	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35923	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Hrelja. First, he said he was against the privilege of Croatian defenders. Croatian defenders have no special privileges under the applicable law. This should, therefore, not confuse the notion of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid and a Croatian defender. The Croatian defender has no minor rights under the Law on Croatian Defence. Still, the other one, I think, made one mistake. He says that Croatian defenders should be resociated. It's a term in penology that applies to the penitentiary. It means rearranging, so don't, I know you don't mean it. But don't use the expression to resocialize because they have a whole other meaning than what you want. And that means getting involved in a regular life. I guess that's what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35924	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35925	It is not the correct quote from colleagues of Hrelje that the SDPs have their anti-fascism exactly the opposite. So if this declaration is accepted it will be a declaration by the Croatian Parliament. So all parties and representatives of these parties and citizens in the highest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. It is no doubt that antifascism is the heritage of all Croatian peoples and of the Croatian state, which is stale and written in the preamble of the Croatian Constitution where the continuity of the Croatian state binds to ZAVNO. The meetings of the Croatian people's anti-fascist council and I am so questioned that some here question the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35926	And the esteemed representative Damir Kai's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35927	I agree with Mr. Hrejo that no one should be deceived. However, the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja IDS does not do so. And I sincerely hope that they will not be deceived in the future or in the retirement population by unrealistic promises, as has often been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35928	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that today, the representatives of the two clubs who are left behind speak still and that we then terminate for the sake of the duties of a number of MPs. And let's continue this debate tomorrow at 9.30. And now they would still speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Luka Bebic. On behalf of HNS PGS, respected representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35929	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. After 60 years, we ask if as a society we are mature to face our past. That we objectively valorize it, without bias, I don't want to be a hostage of the past and not even the political past of our own family, both by father and by mother. And what happens to us is that when we talk about it, we start with our own, family and other history, so maybe we're so burdened with the right prejudice. For something like this, we need to eliminate it. The antifascist issues of Izma have not been resolved, unfortunately, on a global basis. Because Serbia-Montenegro's assembly passed the law and declared the Chetniks anti-fascist fighters. So in our immediate neighborhood, we have a completely different valorizing question of what antifascism is and what is collaboration with fascism. It's not just antifascism, it's antinascism. In Germany it was national socialism in Italy it was antifascism. And I will say one thing to the Croatian people mainly in Istria, together with Slovenians and democratically committed Italians, are worldly to express myself as the first fighters in the fight against fascism. And when we talk about it, we must also start from the fact that this struggle between the Croatian peoples and other peoples in Croatia with other members of national minorities is the 85th year that they are fighting Fascism. When the 50th anniversary of the victory over fascism and Nazism headed by the Croatian state were two proven anti-fascist champions of the 41st Partisan monument bearer. It was the President of the Republic of Dr. Franjo Tudjman and Chief of Staff Mr. General Janko Bobetko, who was one of Europe's first fighters against fascism and Nazism. Because on June 22nd, in the vicinity of Sisak, a squad of Partisans led by Capa began fighting Fascism and Nazism. And the place to talk about it I don't know and have been invited to the proper celebrations in the world that were in the 50th anniversary of the victory over fascism, because in America Clinton, in Russia Jeljcin, in France Mitteran, in England Majger all were younger people who were not participants in the happiness of fighting fascism al’ on the Croatian political scene were two of the most prominent first fighters against fascism. So we can also talk about the eighty-five-year-old, and then this 11th conclusion proposed by the SDP would read, "The Croatian Assembly calls on all citizens, state and social institutions, associations and media, and obliges all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to protect the fundamental values of the 85th annual anti-fascist struggles as a pledge to our civilization future and democratic European commitment." I would generally accept this conclusion and accept, as well as the first, second and fourth, but I consider it questionable that in the declaration we are dimensioning or determining exactly what we are going to do and what decisions we are going to make mainly because we have not studied the entire legislation so far that has actually resolved and resolved many of these issues that are contained here in the Proposal for this resolution. The Fascist Terror Victims Act is still in force today and has been followed and appropriate rights have been exercised. So for the declaration as a declaration, we don't need to normively state what we should or shouldn't do, because we don't even know what we should do because we don't know how much we did, we didn't do one analysis of what was done and what should be done, but that's how we put it in there, in the proposal for that declaration. And as for the anti-fascist struggle on Croatia's soil in World War II, of the 11th Corps of the National Liberation Army, the five Corpses were from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which was attended by Croats, Serbs, Italians, Germans, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks and others, so let's say the Hungarians had that Shondor Potefi battalion, the Germans had Telman, Ernest Telman and so on. And when we talk about it then we must say that, for example, in a folk-free fight, the Croatian people also participated in the fight against fascism, but all those who lived in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as representatives of their national minorities. We can also say that no Chetnik movement has been developed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia except in parts of Dalmatia and like. In some other parts, he was not at all and had no attributes like he had in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. And this is one gain that needs to be valorised and recognised, and because of what happened in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, the equalisation of Chetism with Partisans is, of course, unacceptable to us, but we can say that such phenomena or proposals and solidarity with such decisions in Croatia do not exist or at least I am not familiar with such, such attitudes. So we have no objection to winning the 60th anniversary of Fascism and Naziism with a decent mark, but we have to because there are one of the first countries in Europe in this fight, we need to affirm this contribution to the European anti-fascist movement and the gains that today are the basis for both the European Union and all other associations. But in doing so, we have to be objective, we have to talk about what's true and that here, after 60 years, we haven't solved some things that went at the same time and that have had negative consequences within so-called. An antifascist movement. Let's leave it to historians, let's leave it to them, and even what they say if it isn't, which someone said if not all the persecution of these war crimes is out of date and therefore to the judiciary. And we pride ourselves on giving one great pain, one great contribution to the overall world and European fight against fascism and Nazism. So let's not mix the Homeland War here now. Let's not talk about who did what under the given circumstances, but about one of our parliamentary political platforms of support and celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the fight against fascism, and let's not be proud of it, and let's not make any concrete conclusions that would then, in this other context that I was talking about, at the same time, this and that, because no movement was quite clean without a side of phenomenon, no crime to say, on either side. And so as the Croatian Parliament towards Europe and the world, we will manifest our attachment to the anti-fascist victory over fascism, and also the gains of victory over fascism. And since we built it into our constitution, we owe it. And we owe it mainly because it affirms Croatia, the Croatian people and other members who live, other peoples who live in the territory of Croatia as freedomists, as anti-fascists. I am against it, and here I support Mr. Zlatko Krmarić, the destruction of any monument, and even those who are insufferably intolerable that man can hardly look at them. But it also testifies to our history. And you, so to speak, are badly designed they are also our history and we should not be ashamed of any part of our history, if it is aimed at positive gains, not only anti-fascist fights but at a total of one courtship of our own and our peoples and all of Croatia. That's why we as the HDZ Club would support these principled proposals contained in points 1, 2, 4 and 11 by proposing these 85 or 84 years that we're really fighting Fascism. Because when he was marching to Rome, then the Croats, the Slovenians, the Italians, were democratically committed in Istria first raised their voice. Where did we affirm that? Where we talked about it a lot other than hidden and very lame. And that's the living truth, and that's the living truth. So let us be broad about declaring the declaration, and let us be very careful when we accurately and specifically define certain points and for which we have not studied them enough, we have not compared the data. So let's refrain this time and rework these declarations so that they are acceptable to the entire composition of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35930	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the respected representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35931	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that for the first time we are going to be almost completely... /Break up on the tape./... declare the declaration, and let us be very careful when we accurately and specifically define some points behind which we have not even studied enough, we have not compared the data, so let us therefore refrain from doing so this time and process these declarations so that they are acceptable to the entire composition of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35932	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS and PGS club, a respected representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35933	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that for the first time, it happens to me that almost entirely apart from pointing points, I agree with what my colleague Mr. Bebic said here, and I think the only task left in front of him now is that his club agrees with him, so it would be a good idea to organise a short seminar in his club about what he was saying here because I think that's the only problem in this assembly. And otherwise, I also agree that it would be good to reach a consensus on this and bring the declarations by consensus. I hope it is feasible and that my colleague Bebic will reach that consensus within his club which is now a problem. Antifascism is, of course, a civilizational fluid as well as civil equality, as is Croatian independence, as is political pluralism. These are all civilizational fluids. There will always be people who, speaking of anti-fascism or swearing to anti-fascism, swearing in Croatia, swearing to the values of freedom, swearing to brotherhood and equality and freedom, in fact beneath it, violate all the principles of these attitudes and below, have committed crimes under these paroles. It hasn't invented the 20th century, it exists throughout human history. People have sworn to great ideals, and they've done small or big pigs, but that doesn't mean there's less value in those ideals. That doesn't mean that those ideals with you and those basic ideas don't carry with them what brought man out of metaphorically speaking, caves to the French Academy. So from one precivilization state to the possibility of intellectual development of unsuspecting proportions. Therefore, the fact that on behalf of some ideals, there are no ideals, in whose name and under whose cover they have not done different and crimes and different other unacceptable things, but it does not reduce these ideals themselves. When I was preparing on behalf of the HNS PGS Club for this debate, I felt that both of these declarations proposed by colleagues from the IDS and the SDP, that both of these declarations were primarily about today, but that today in the sense in which today must establish some equal criteria for all, some kind of justice and equality should be established for all, Croatian wartime invalids should be equalised with the wartime wartimes of the People's Liberation War. So we need to establish some foundations of equality in the rights of the people who fought for the freedom of this country and without either one nor the freedom of this country nor this country would exist. I think it's unequivocal today. However, in the debate in this assembly, it has been shown that, apart from this topic which is the subject of today’s and relating to people’s lives now, that there is still a very lively debate and that they are very passionate and that, in this way, from the past to the present day, they are passing on some other topics, conveying topics as to whether the people’s liberation struggle was a folk-free struggle, or whether it was so-called. The People's Liberation Fight, conveys the topic of whether antifascism is a civilizational fluid or not. That I think we have to do once, and maybe this is a good opportunity, given at least the debate on behalf of the clubs, maybe this is a good opportunity to do it now, we have to put an ad act on it once. It is clear that the people's liberating fight against fascism involving people of the most diverse political beliefs, against fascism and Nazism was the premise of our existence, that it was something that freed Europe and the world from a monstrous worldview that led to the first destruction, and then self-destruction. Therefore, I no longer think there can be a dilemma in this country and in this Parliament. From these positions we are at all going to the next stage of our development, and that is the European let's say not only the Union of political entities and the economic interests of the market but the European Union of values. We are going from this position to the European Union and without that position there is no European Union value at all, and without the European Union there is no European Union value. We, if we do not participate in these common values, do not belong there, and we must be fully aware of that, and I hope that we have come to that. It's obvious that the question is whether these people fought against fascism and Nazism. Obviously, the answer is yes and that's the only criterion that's interesting for us here. Anything related to crimes, individual processing, etc. Of course it is also subject to the same criteria. I find it embarrassing to calculate here with a rapidly reducing group of people of our fathers and grandfathers who are still alive, who in their youth went and fought Fascism and Nazism. It's all very expensive, unfortunately, a matter of a few years, and these few years, these people need to be provided with a decent existence, and they need to be provided with that dignity to be recognized publicly and unequivocally by everyone to recognize that they fought for this country, that we recognize, accept and appreciate it. And in that segment, I don't think there can be any dilemma either. So to calculate here with a rapidly reducing population whether we're going to give them the same rights, among these people, whether we're going to even them out in the right. I think it's inadmissible to talk about it this way at all. Clearly, yes. My colleagues and colleagues from this debate seem to be seeing more of the ones coming from the bench in the form of a correction of incorrect allegations and replicas than the one that was brought here for this payphone on behalf of the clubs, it is important to restore the values of antifascism, that it is important to define the attitude towards antifascism, also seen because, for example, without such a clear attitude, we are threatened with different dangers, for example, to threaten to happen to us as a parliament, to respond positively to a request for the 60th anniversary of the victory of antifascism in Europe in the Croatian Parliament, to hold a meeting in the area of the Croatian Assembly, markings, an international scientific rally on the Bleiburska Tragedia or the Croatian Cross Road in 1945. Such a request has come to the Parliament, the patronage of the President of the Parliament is sought and space is sought in the Assembly. It is a gathering which, of course, the chairman of the Board of Organization is a man who is not a historian at all, but it is not important, what is important is that it is a gathering that can be held wherever he wants, in any space in this city, in any institution, but for the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism and shows, you can contact the President of the Club, so it is a direct obstruction of the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism and cannot be celebrated over the 60th anniversary of the Fascism so that the meeting is held in the Croatian Assembly under this title and on this topic as the only event marking the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism. Once we understand that, we will also know what the European Union is worth and what it means to participate in anti-fascist values. HNS Club I ask you, I ask you to wait until I finish and then return to that topic, all scientific gatherings outside the Assembly, this scientific gathering, of course, is not even scientific because it is not organised by a historian as president at all, but it is a special topic, but in this context, the PGS Club will support these two Declarations and will be against this meeting being held in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35934	Dear Vice-President, a request for patronage in the scientific conference you spoke of came to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and was discussed at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament. And it was adopted at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament with you not agreeing, you were opposed to the Croatian Parliament being the sponsor of this scientific meeting and you were particularly opposed to holding this scientific meeting in the premises of the Croatian Parliament. But the decision of the Croatian Parliament Presidency which is relevant is different. It does not mean that if this scientific gathering is held in the premises of the Croatian Parliament that it will be as you say the only and exclusive role of the Croatian Assembly in marking the 60th anniversary of the victory over antifascism, I have received and considered the way, well over fascism yes, I have won and I will discuss it at the next Presidency of the Parliament and the proposal of the initiative for the inclusion of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and of the... proposals of the initiative how to include the Croatian Parliament and in what way, we will discuss it at the Presidency of the Assembly in a timely manner. So you do not have the thesis that it would be the only one and that it is a direct obstruction of the Croatian Parliament presidency's decisions to approve and to sponsorship and to hold this scientific meeting in the rooms of the Croatian Parliament. I think that we should have resolved this in another way, and I'm not going to prejudge the role of scientific and professional capacity... of the participants in this rally, because we can't predict in advance that it's going to be some other scientific event. I think we will not allow the patronage of the Croatian Parliament and the giving of space to be misused for other purposes than those that do not comply with the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution. We have a whole series of ladies and gentlemen correcting incorrect allegations. First, I would like to give a respected representative to the vice president and president of the HDZ Club, Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35935	My intention is to show that this Parliament, or any institution, is open to debates and anti-fascism and these other issues, if we don't accept it, but we accept only one thing, and we don't accept the other, then we can't talk here about how we are... after 60 years. Secondly, I think that today when we talk about antifascism, we need to be objective, broad, but to enable space and political and residential to call it, this space right here, physically for all options if we consider it useful to determine the historical truth. Have them propose anti-fascists here all their scientists and come here and fill this room, no one mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35936	Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35937	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pusic let me correct you about the consensus in our club. It is not true, colleagues, that our President Luka Bebić should reach a consensus on what he was saying here, everything the Club President has said on behalf of the Club is understandablely acceptable to the entire club otherwise he would not speak of it. So, it absolutely doesn't make any sense, and in connection with this last Bleiburg thing, I would tell you really God save any truth that only someone has the exclusive right to, and it takes you to take away from me the right to interpret and fascism, because when you take it that way, antifascism, then it's his opposite then he's just fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35938	Ivo Lonchar correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35939	Vice-President Pusic said antifascism is a civilizational fluid that is the first part of the sentence and I agree with that, as the French Revolution is a civil fluid but she added in the second part of the sentence perhaps it is not. I would like to correct this because I am really interested in what antifascism is in Croatia and who are Croatian anti-fascists, is Comrade Tito anti-fascist, is Milka Planinc an antifascist, is Jakov Blažević, is Simo Dubaić, is Milka Kufrin, is Marko Belinić and the others who have committed many crimes. Mr. President, please, I don't have a club and I'm cut out to read, that's 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35940	He can't. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35941	Here. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your generosity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35942	So I can't give you a firm to correct an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35943	But yes...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35944	Well, I can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35945	By order of Comrade Tito...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35946	I can't give you...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35947	... issued an order for Bleiburg...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35948	Mr. Lonchar, you understand I can't because it doesn't allow the Rules of Procedure. Zdenka Babić-Peteričević, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35949	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament Vice President speaks about the ban or freedom in this Croatian Parliament. But, ma'am, today is April 6, 2005. Don't forget that. This is a sovereign, independent state of Croatia, and this is still the Croatian Parliament, and it is not on December 5th 1918, the afternoon when the number of Croatian soldiers in Croatia began to manifest for the Republic of Croatia on 25 and 53rd. For their purpose...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35950	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, correcting the incorrect quote, Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35951	I'll frame it for you...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35952	Thank you very much, Mrs. Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35953	Mr. President, it is not the first time Mrs. Pusic has offended and felt her attitudes, but it also irritates the Croatian public. Of course she can think about Bleiburg whatever she wants, and it's not true that every antifascism is unquestioned. And I would ask her what the antifascism of the Allies of the English who are in II is. The World War was handed over to anti-fascist partisans who killed 200 thousand Croats. So, what kind of antifascism is it, and is it unquestionable on both sides? And one more thing. Why have they now extended for 20 years not to open their archives and determine responsibility for Bleiburg those anti-fascists in England? Is this a forbidden topic or is it all xenophobics who open discussions in this House?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35954	Not all of them, colleagues and colleagues, please. Do not under the firm correcting incorrect allegations pollemize, evaluate, face each other. Comrade Pusic, I ask you to choose what is the correction, or the violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35955	I'll be very brief, but I have to because you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35956	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35957	... under the corrections firm don't fix mine, so that's the 209th where...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35958	There's no 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35959	...is not correcting. Mostly that article where what I said is not corrected, so the facts are expressed. So what I'm saying is that the scientific set on historical facts in which it isn't, there are no historians or most of them are people who are not historians obviously can't be scientific expensive on this subject. That's what I said. If you want to have a scientific gathering on historical facts where there are no historians, I don't know what science is, but I don't know. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35960	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow. The representatives of Nenad Stazić, Ruža Tomasic, Ratko Gajica, Andrija Hebrang, etc. And after this debate we are going on about the work of the Securities Commission, The Plans of Statistical Activities, Research, the report on the state of the penitentiary and the points from which we have completed the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35961	What about the audit? Revision?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35962	Friday, there will be no session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35963	What about the audit, the audit?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35964	All in good time. Next week. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session and the topic of discussion on the Proposal for a Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on Anti-fascism and the 60th anniversary of the victory of anti-fascism in Croatia and Europe. It's next, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This May 9th, the world, Europe, will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the victory of antifascism. This is about whether or not the Croatian Parliament will join the celebration. I can't imagine, at first I say that the Croatian Democratic Union as the strongest party in this House would be against this marking, against the adoption of the Declaration joining the celebration. If she did, she'd give up her founder, A stranger because he was an anti-fascist, too. And Dr. Tudjman never gave up his antifascism, but he pointed it out from opportunity to occasion. I am therefore convinced that HDZ will also strongly support the SDP's proposed declaration. In this belief, I am also encouraged by Mr. Luka Bebić's appearance at yesterday's session when he spoke of this declaration on behalf of the HDZ Club, and when he said that many points of the declaration were acceptable to him. Mr. Luka Bebić rightly recalled then that 10 years ago when Europe celebrated the 50th anniversary of the victory of anti-fascism. The state summit or President Tudjman was not invited to the celebration. Not because she forgot his anti-fascist past but because of that, because of his current tolerance to some of the phenomena that represented the negation of anti-fascism. Such phenomena unfortunately exist in Croatia today. I remind you of Zadar, where natives appear in Ustasha uniforms, I remind you of the destroyed 3,000 monuments of the anti-fascist struggle, and lately the monument in Kumrovec and the monument in Murter. That's why this Declaration is needed today, not just as a jubilee, not just as a convenient one. So it's been 10 years since that last great jubilee, and now Europe and the world will celebrate 60 years of victory of anti-fascism. I don't think we should allow Croatia as a Croatian Parliament a new humiliation to Croatia. That we must not allow the Croatian state summit not to be included in this European celebration. That we cannot allow Prime Minister Sanader not to be invited to this celebration as President Tudjman was not invited ten years ago. And that's exactly what could happen if it happens to a party whose president is Dr. Sanader and who has the majority in this House rejects this Declaration, refuses the Antifascism Declaration. That is why I am convinced that this Declaration will receive considerable, significant, perhaps unanimous support from this Parliament. So we're not just doing it for primordial reasons, we're not proposing this Declaration just for primordial reasons, but for our core commitment. We are seeking membership in the European Union, and I like the thought, Mrs Vesne Pusic, which I say, the European Union is not just a union of states, it is a Union of values. And one of these uncontested values is antifascism. Therefore, if we want to be stakeholders of European values we must be, we must accept antifascism as an uncontestable value and we must highlight it as our own value because it is part of our past. As far as the past is concerned, she is who she is. The fact is that communists fought anti-fascistly in Croatia. But many anti-fascists involved in the fight were not communists at least at their beginnings when they were involved in the fight. The communists were both President Tudjman and General Bobetko but many peasants, many workers, many ordinary people who became fighters of these anti-fascist coalitions were not members of the Communist party by fighting. It became later, during the struggle, after the war, some because of ideals, some because of careerism, each for their own reasons. Communism is like any movement, it has its own dark side but this isn't the Declaration of Communism, this is the Declaration of Antifascism. And you see, antifascism has united both communists and anti-communists. Both Stalin and Cerček and Roswelt and communists and anti-Communists participated in the world's anti-fascist coalition. The ideological differences at that time were overcome in order to overcome the terrible evil that threatened all mankind. This is not a declaration of the past, nor is this declaration a struggle for a better past as some here yesterday pointed out. This is the Declaration of our present and more about our future. Because through this Declaration, we have to say that in that future, will everyone's disability be equal, is that what we want? Whether the fight for freedom of every man will be equally valued and whether we will recognize that struggle for freedom as a value. For all of these reasons, I think it can be reasoned that all the objections made by the Declaration, the proposal submitted by the SDP, fall off as unfounded, to stand out for lack of understanding, importance, the importance of this Declaration. And that through this debate it will become quite clear that it is simply necessary for ourselves, because of our present, because of our future, because we see ourselves in the community of European peoples that this Declaration is unanimous and completely sincere for all of us in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35967	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35968	A fellow Stazic as usual is in conflict with the truth, so now I'm going to say some things here. I quote: "The fact is that in Croatia communists fought an anti-fascist fight.". That's a total lie! The communists had nothing to do with, for example, the anti-fascist movement in Istria, which is pure as a tear. Communist assassins took the move in the fall of 1943. Secondly, I quote, you said: "Communism as well as any movement has its own dark sides. Communism was founded and communists began to act as a terrorist organisation. While they were in power in their 70 years around the world, they killed more than 100 million people. They had concentration camps that couldn't be ashamed of Auschwitz either." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35969	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35970	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna start this debate with a personal story. How much antifascism helped me. We, my grandfather in Bosnia, had a family that didn't interfere with World War II, and his sons were still small. After World War II, we were one of the very wealthy, well-being families. Gentlemen to us, we had two families, Serbian families. One was normal who hung out with us all the time. Others went to the brushes. In 1944, most and 1945, these Chetniks turned into Partisans. They were given the same rank they had in the Chetniks. I don't say that out of any hatred because I never said that all Serbs are Chetniks, I didn't say that all Chetniks are Serbs. Well done to the honest, but let's put every single thing in place when we're already talking about the truth. Those Chetniks took it, they killed my uncle. They took away our property. From a wealthy family, we became poor. My father needs us to move her to Slavonia to stop his giggling. We're like kids, I'm seven years old so I can buy books for school I had to keep cows, I had to clean stables for Slavons so I could buy books. Please, that's the antifascism. My father went to prisons. My mom had to go to Germany to work. Since seventh grade, I've had to work and feed and cook and clean for those younger sisters because my father was then in prison. It's that antifascism and the legacy of antifascism. No one's ever been convicted of anything before. I went to Canada. I haven't been 15 yet. There I was, and there I had to go with my belly after the bread. We were eight children. Of those eight, seven of us had to go around the world for 15, 16, 17 years so we could eat. If it wasn't for that antifascism that set us free, we would have lived very well. I think they took my childhood away from me. I didn't have any childhoods. Second, I, they say it's to forgive Christian. I've forgiven, but I haven't forgotten. And if the declaration is not accompanied by amendments condemning all of the differences within the anti-fascist movement as well as war crimes committed on his behalf, then perhaps I will support this declaration. But not in this way. Not at all. And besides those who support this declaration, they unreservedly support anti-fascism, while at the same time seeking to investigate all the crimes committed by Croatian defenders during the Homeland War. And then they tell me about some kind of justice. Thank you very much. I don't need that kind of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35971	Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35972	Mr. President, I didn't mean to speak today because on behalf of the SDSS Club I spoke yesterday, but since my colleague Gajica had to do other things and since I heard some tones yesterday in the debate on this subject then I decided to say a few more words. First of all, I have to admit that I'm shocked by the ease of talking here about values such as antifascism. I am shocked by the fact that, in fact, in our public and here in this House, there is still hatred for what is called anti-fascist values and anti-fascist heritage. I'm shocked by the fact that it can actually still be realized that although we have a constitution in whose foundations as well as the foundations of this state is embedded antifascism that actually antifascism is a citizen of the second order. And that's shocking. That in the Croatian Parliament in 2005 on the threshold of European integration is spoken with this kind of language about one of the undisputed values of Europe in the 20th century. And in that sense, Mr. President, if there are provisions in our Constitution on anti-fascism and if there are any provisions in this Chamber that I am not talking about the public one of the fundamental values of our Constitution attack in the way it is attacked, it is for me, Mr. President, who is directly opposed to the state. If someone thinks that the state can and should separate from its Constitution, then that is an additional reason to be concerned that the state does not understand what it is relevant to, and that is its constitutionality and constitutional patriotism. And that's what this debate shows, that's what can be seen from this debate, and that's that there are people whose other values are more expensive than the values of the Constitution that we have sworn to here in the Parliament. And as some people rightly experience daily condemnation if in any way harms the feeling of patriotic, state feeling and civic feelings in this country rightly I say, with respect to not only fresh wounds but with the right, given the rise of this country that still needs to be raised. But also, Mr. President, I think we should be sensitive to the insults that come to some of the fundamental constitutional values here. The issue of colleagues and colleagues of anti-fascism is not a matter of compromise on how much anti-fascism and how much fascism. As can be seen not only from this debate but from the public state of consciousness, the public state of values in recent years in Croatia. In other words, antifascism is our value especially for some occasions, but at the same time we will allow with unusually easy existence, manifestations and the presence of fascism in everyday life including, of course, this Assembly here. And that's inadmissible. So it's not whether we're going to have a declaration on this occasion or any other occasion. It is simply that we cannot compromise between what is the fundamental value of the countries we want to be and share the same house and countries we want to move away from. I don't know if there is a parliament in Europe where this kind of debate is being held, in which you can hear these kinds of words and in which you can hear these kinds of emotions. It could be run in our neighborhood. As someone here rightly said yesterday, I mean Mr. Bebic when he talked about Serbia. But to be led to us the way I think it's inadmissible. Not to hurt anyone's experience during World War II and after World War II, not in the 1991 to 1995 war. On the contrary. I do not have enough facts about it or the knowledge of what counterpart Tomasic has experienced or her family. But as a man, of course I can't, and I don't feel or feel for what people went through regardless of what ideological or military formations they belonged to. But I think that antifascism should be exactly the kind of new value that is confirmed about which the consensus will not be built in Croatia but remove all the doubts that exist in this respect and that are present today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35973	Thank you. We have the next correction of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35974	I thank Mr. President, I think it's very important because of the record and our history to correct what Mr. counterpart Pupovac said. You said there was fascism in Parliament. I really refuse, and I don't understand what you mean by that. Then you said there was hatred here for anti-fascism. I assure you here there is no hatred at all in any way there was no hatred for anti-fascism. I noticed a misunderstanding from one side of antifascism as such I'll talk about it in the debate. However, there is hatred for injustice of hypocrisy and crime committed in the name of antifascism. And that's all. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35975	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35976	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A fellow Pupovac is not true to speak with hatred in this Assembly of any topic nor about today's topic of anti-fascism declaration proposed by the SDP club IDS This Mr. Pupovac is not an insult to this country, this country is too expensive for anyone to even use words against this country it is sacred to the Croatian people. It was created on something that is incomparable with one history, which is the Homeland War and this Croatian Parliament is talking about special values about the Homeland War of 1990. When Croatian children with something that gave them strength, which gave them the crown around their necks created a Croatian state. Create the latest, most famous history of the Croatian people through our history. This and the Croatian Parliament and others you have called here do not support fascism because fascism is not in the blood of the Croatian people. It's not in our genes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35977	Dear Representative Marko Turic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35978	Your Honor, Mr. President, there's a big inaccuracy here, I'd say a hoax. Mr. Pupovac said this kind of debate isn't being held in Europe even in our environment. That's not true. It is true that in Serbia, parliament has adopted a provision that has mixed things up. Partisans, Chetniks sign of equality. The defenders of the partisan sign of equality. Another logic is the Chetnik defenders of the Homeland War all the same. It's a big prank. And when it's said in this here Parliament I'm unhappy I see in action something else. And don't tell us that I beg you everyone has a big loan in this Croatian state. We have to keep her safe, and we don't have the right to say anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35979	Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35980	Mr. Pupovac said there was an insult to antifascism in the Parliament. Everything is completely incorrect and thus a colleague of Pupovac relativises antifascism. We're all anti-fascists. I'd like to see who it isn't. But who in Croatia is an anti-fascist and what in Croatia is anti-fascism. Then my colleague Pupovac said there was hatred in this House. Exactly, you have now said it in your speech because you have relativated the Croatian sanctuary and the Croatian sanctity is antifascism. Then the Croats defeated Serbian fascism between 1991 and 1995 and for tragedy and irony to be greater today in the Croatian National Assembly we have two Chetniks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35981	My colleague, Lonchar, I warn you of this insult you have made. Because this is incorrect from you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35982	Your Honor, I have noticed three inaccuracies in the presentation of my colleague, Pupovec. One was already mentioned when he said that in this House there was an outcry against anti-fascism, which is not true. In this House, most MPs do not accept the fact that under the cloak of anti-fascism all the stalemates, betterists and all the crimes they committed. And that's why it's not the same. Second, he said that this was practically an incursion against the state, which I don't think is true. But it's trying to expose the fact that through the declaration it's trying to show something else that exactly what I said earlier under an anti-fascism firm is kind of being adjudicated by all the crimes of the communists. And third, in Croatia, and in this House there is fascism practically at every turn. I don't think that's really worth the denial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35983	And a correction to the next respected representative of Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35984	I'd say only two three things. First of all, I think this is where the communist criminal doctrine is mixed with antifascism. It doesn't matter. I was alive in 45 years, and I know that every morning I went out on the street and watched the news of the death of innocent people, and when everyone was declaring overnight who was also a little rich or respectable to the enemies, they were closing down, being taken away from them. Well, these people can't have the same rights as the freedom fighters of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35985	Thank you. Gentlemen, Pupovac's representative has stated something that in my sense and judgment is an insult to those MPs who pointed to certain aberrations in anti-fascism to certain negativity or crimes committed in the name of anti-fascism. And thus, by pointing out that those advocates who have spoken in this way have seen it as a manifestation of the expression of fascism in the Croatian Parliament, I estimate that it has violated the rights of those MPs to speak. And give them their honor. And for that reason, Mr. Pupovac, I give you a warning about this kind of behavior and performance in the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35986	Dear Mr. President, this is a topic as we see it, causing deep divisions in the Croatian people for the simple reason why we about Croatian anti-fascism never had the courage to tell the truth. And we never had the strength from a historical and political point of view to answer the question and where and what was Croatian antifascism. First of all, I consider this declaration not a declaration of victory of antifascism but a declaration of privileges. Because eight about 11 points speaks of the privileges of those who are called anti-fascists. I claim that Croatian anti-fascism has been gone since 1943. Because the conspiracy group led by Edward Cardelijo, Gilas and Rankovic organized and drawn up a spider web in which he was very pleased to catch Josip Broz Tito, they eliminated the anti-fascist Croatian personnel by changing the entire leadership in September 1944. Since then, only Yugoslav antifascism has existed, because if Croatian antifascism had remained, we would not be discussing these differences today. And the differences are next. Yugoslav anti-fascism, of course, has the support I am sure of all here in this House and I am sure of the entire Croatian people. Antifascism as a movement has experienced all its support in all the countries of the world, I would say with some insignificant exceptions, because antifascism has defeated the greatest evil of the 20th century and possibly the greatest evil of mankind's history. However, Yugoslav antifascism has two sides of medals, has two images. One is the antifascist we respect, but it has never been fenced, never separated from it and never separated from that true anti-fascist line from the other one who was masked by anti-fascism by the same crimes as the anti-fascism. I will remind you of the greatest of them ever committed by anti-fascism, so under the mask of anti-fascism they committed the same crimes as Fascism. Remember Jazovka, remember Aržana, remember Daxa, remember Grgur, remember the Golog Island. But we can forget all that, but we can't forget the greatest civilian crime, the greatest crime on the civilian population in the history of Europe, not after the war but in the history of Europe, it's the Crossroad, it's Bleiburg. On May 15, 1945, according to Tolstoy, in his book "Minister and Massacre", Nikolai Tolstoy, 200 thousand disarmed men, therefore civilians because they were disarmed, women and children from Bleiburg were returned to Tito's anti-fascists. This time I say it under quotes. I repeat, it's two years after the adoption of the Geneva genealogical conventions on civil rights in the war. So there is already an international law on the protection of civilians and a disarmed soldier is a civilian under that declaration and is subject to all the rules of war as well as to other civilians. And I repeat, there were a lot of women and a lot of children in the 200 grand column. What happened? Handed over to "Tits anti-fascists", again under quotes, according to Tolstoy and other analysts and eyewitnesses were tortured, raped, abused. I refer to a description in Tolstoy's book that describes the greatest torture human mind can invent. When they caught one disarmed civilian, then Comrade Colonel "anti-fascist" under quotes, knifed his skin from his back, a piece of skin he flogged him with and swallowed him with. It's a record of the abuse of Yugoslav anti-fascism. So when we bring out the declarations, we have to say that tens of thousands of people under such a mask of antifascism have been tortured and killed. That hundreds of thousands of their families had life tragedies that they are suffering today. And it's an unimaginable declaration of anti-fascism without finally acknowledging that part of the anti-fascist movement is misused to eliminate political opponents in the dirtiest and lowest way. When we admit it, and when we introduce it into these declarations, there will be no more misunderstandings, there will be no more false interpretations of what Mr. Milorad Pupovac gave, there will be no misunderstandings, and there will be something that deserves those victims. Those victims who were killed and replaced under anti-fascism mask do not require privileges like these of our anti-fascists here today. They demand only one thing, to enter the truth, the historical truth of their victims. And their only privilege should be the truth about the abuse of antifascism. It's the only way we can bridge this great gap, these misunderstandings, these untruths, these lies and these injustices. Therefore, I personally cannot support this declaration in its 9 out of 11 points because they require only privileges. That is why, without such an introduction of historical truth, I can never raise my hand to those who have abused antifascism for the most serious crimes, and we have not yet named them or recognised their right to sacrifice. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35987	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35988	Your Honor, Mr. President. Probably a colleague of Hebrang's had a lapsus, so I'm going to try to use the replica to look back at the part he talked about about about 200 thousand people on the Crossroad. According to Tolstoy and other sources on the Crossroad, more than 5 hundred thousand people have gone, and only fellow Hebrang has been killed in Slovenia between 190 thousand and 240 thousand. Therefore, if we add this then, that so far over a thousand mass graves have been discovered in Croatia where we assume that there are also several tens of thousands of victims, only the number of victims on the Crossroad towards the already available published and verified sources is moving between 250 and 300 thousand people. I will also replicate in the part where colleague Hebrang says this declaration is a list of privileges. I'd say he just did. The Shera Conventions give certain rights to both prisoners of war and to all and anti-fascists, in my opinion, some additional rights should be recognised. But dear colleagues and colleagues, all in good time. First of all, the basic right that we're not to these victims that I'm talking about has been admitted and that's the right to the grave. These 250 thousand people have the right by gene conventions and international war rights to be properly buried, including those victims found in photos and victims in mass strategists throughout Croatia and Croatian victims outside the Croatian homeland. So when we solve the question of the right to the grave of these people, then I'm willing to confess to everyone and all the other rights. So I'm calling here to talk here about one elemental human right, right to the grave, which even the Roman slaves had at a time when they had no rights, when they were not human, but by the act of death, they were given the elemental right to the grave. Croatians died in World War II and after, of these so-called Yugoslav anti-fascists, and unfortunately from today's Croatian authorities...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35989	Please conclude your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35990	They haven't even got a real grave yet. And I appeal that we settle this right, and then all the other rights. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm a little out of time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35991	Yeah, a little bit. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35992	I agree with Mr. Boras. I was thinking 200 grand about the number of people killed. It's a number that's being discussed today, but I don't agree on the privileges because I think anti-fascists have 60 years of privilege and that they are truly worthy of what they've done. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35993	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35994	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I'm saying is the truth and only the truth. Today's Croatian state is an independent and sovereign Croatian state thanks primarily to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and this is the full truth and this is the value of today's Croatian state, because for the first time in Croatian history, the shoulders alongside the grandchildren and the sons and the Ustashas and the natives and partisan have defended the Croatian state, and this is the most important value of today's Croatian state and Croatian defenders and members of their families, and probably most of the public don't need new divisions. We're finally in the Homeland War so we've managed to resolve these divisions and our rights are exactly the starting point of the Homeland War. The following truth should be told that, together with the Croats in Croatian troops, members of other national minorities and Serbs, and Hungarians, and the Germans and we stick to it, these are the highest values of the Croatian state, and these new divisions are no longer interested in anyone in the state in red and black. And that's why I'm saying just looking back on last Friday when the SDP gentlemen told us about our proposal for the Labour Act that it was demagogy, that's what former Minister Vidovic and some other colleagues said and that it's hypocritical. Now, this is hypocritical, this is demagogy. This is very hypocritical, this is demagogy and this is causing new divisions, and it's only aimed at the upcoming local elections. It's nothing else. Because if they wanted to do it today, they were in power, they could do all these things that they're making false promises again, and they're reintroducing new divisions within the Croatian people, and that doesn't help anyone. So they had a chance, they didn't do it, and now they're bidding. But it is also a sad fact, many in the debate call for acquired rights. As a lawyer, I'll say, I'm always against abolishing acquired rights, and let's look the truth in the face. Have the workers been denied their rights? They did. Have political prisoners been denied their rights? They did. Have the members of their families been denied their rights? They did. Have Croatian defenders and members of their families been denied their rights? They did. So let's be principled and consistent in that part, so let's say, let's not demagoguely talk once about acquired rights, and the other groups get those rights, then it's said they're no longer acquired rights, it's harmonisation with legislation, this or that legislation. So let us abandon these divisions and do not speak falsely. counterpart Cain says Partisans want pensions as Croatian defenders, their pension amount is about 2,000 and something kuna. Croatian defenders have no pensions, they now have a new law, which is when they are 65 and can get a pension and it is in that part as increased, it will amount to 1.777.00 kuna. Let's not lie to the Croatian public. 1,777,00 kuna, not minimal, but for a full-time job if you've looked at the law. ... Take it easy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Two, I'm telling you one thing. For residential care, members of the NOR, the partisans were entitled to housing while Croatian defenders do not have the right to do so. So they don't have a valid law or ever have a right to housing. About health care. We agree if we are a social state everyone must have the right to health care, but even Croatian defenders do not have the right to health care. They have no right, I mean that part of the release from participation. This is only the Croatian military disabled, but the least who have 30% physical damage, means Croatian wartime disabled with a recognised 30% physical impairment, Croatian defenders the second and 20% have no right. That's the same truth. Therefore, the saddest thing is when new divisions are created in such topics, and then data is presented that are guilty, incorrect and only serve to deepen the debate where there is no place for it. And now everyone here speaks on behalf of the promoter, says we can't tell the difference between the disabled in the degree of physical damage. I agree. But where are your disabled workers? Where are your civilian cripples from the Homeland War? Why didn't you put them there? Are we always going to do the alignment of the equation by reducing one's rights and not raising another's rights? Well, we didn't do anything about it. It was an attempt during the former government, the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disabled, Croatian defenders were reduced. That's true. The basis for disability is not 160 but 115%. Therefore, there has been a reduction in all situations. Now as far as the figure itself is concerned, it's interesting that still the figure is, let's say, the user of Partizan pensions although I have nothing, everyone has the right to use why he deserved it if we're a social state, but there's somewhere over 70 thousand a day-to-day user of pensions of Homeland War participants is somewhere around 31 grand. So there are many different speculations and cases. And now, if we're going to be principled and consistent, we should say the same thing about how much it would cost to be inside, which is said in the declaration. We know what the purpose of the declaration is. The declaration does not determine anything, the declaration only declares something, and when it will be and whether it will be any unknowing judgment on all this. So let's be realistic. When talking about Croatian defenders and members of their families, the state was said to be in a difficult economic situation, therefore there is no such possibility. It's the same situation here. So it's the same situation here, there's a lot of inconsistencies in all of this, and the worst thing is that they re-enter and divide within the Croatian people, but only means in the interest of the upcoming local campaign, which is that one part of the electoral body is placed either on the side of one or another proposing, and it will still remain at the promise level. If 60 years of anti-fascism were to be made and marked, it would have been a fine decision to make with the concentration of this Croatian Parliament. 'Cause watch out, let's leave this part to history. Antifascism as antifascism is positive, it's not at all controversial. But anti-fascism is a floor, many of them are under cover of anti-fascism committed crimes, and that's the same truth. That's the case of Bleiburg and everything. So we speak responsibly, we speak of the present situation and everything else and let's be tolerant. And when we talk about tolerance and all this, then I have to say that yesterday I was while the President of the Parliament was reading a charter dedicated to the Holy Father to one of the representatives on the right was ringing the mobile "International" and he still wanted to talk. I mean, let's be tolerance here, too. Now that the Holy Father is dead so let's give some, we see his messages all that he sent, and his messages are tolerance, love, and everything else. And let's not create new messages inside, we've barely managed to avoid these divisions throughout history. So there's a lot of division and let's not promise demagogue, hypocritical, and lie to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35995	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35996	Mr. President, I will only correct the incorrect allegations of a respected counterpart, Kovacevic, where he stated that Croatian disabled people only have a participation of 30 per cent and more. That's not true. All Croatian people with disabilities and 20% are entitled to participation. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35997	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35998	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Kovacevic, who says that where SDP is being disabled and disabled. I don't know where you've been sitting for the past two weeks when the SDP Club submitted the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities where we tried to equalise all the rights of disabled workers, the Civil Disabilities of the Homeland War and Mr Kovacevic voted for the declaration by all clubs except your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u35999	And the esteemed representative, Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36000	Thank you. Mr Kovacevic spoke about the reduction of rights by the former Croatian defenders. For reasons of accuracy, it should be said that, that there was a correction of some rights to the real state of affairs because the 1997 Law was never fully implemented. So just to remind myself that the basis for the disability calculation was 160%, however, in reality it paid 115%. And the new law only respected that fact. Not to say that some rights have been increased, let's say, the right to supply that was first given to Croatian defenders who were socially at risk. And I agree with the fact that these divisions and returning to the past are not going to do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36001	A colleague of Kovačević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36002	Your Honor, Mr. President, my colleague Pancic has abused the Institute of Correction of the False Allegation. I didn't mention the general government I was just saying it was reduced, and this isn't a correction of an incorrect quote, this is already going in replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36003	And this isn't?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36004	So he abused the institute...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36005	And this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you have indicated. You're claiming that the reductions in the rights of counsel...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36006	Yeah, but no, I didn't say ex-government. I'm saying reduced rights. He said himself, so it's not true...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36007	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36008	...quoted my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36009	Don't, you're, uh, you're a colleague of Kovacevic for a breach of the Rules of Procedure where you express disagreement when someone has expressed disagreement with your point of view. ... Oh, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36010	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Someone asked themselves yesterday why we're talking about anti-fascism today? Right now. Well, because antifascism is a lasting fluid of European, or global, democratic and progressive traditions, and the contribution of peoples' freedom to fight anti-fascism and the new world postwar order is invaluable and lasting military political, cultural and civilizational value. The increasingly frequent appearances at certain gatherings or concerts are young with Ustaška markings whether they are berets with the "U" or black T-shirts with the character Ante Pavelic or the famous greeting "Heil Hitler". These young people seem to have accepted non-resistance as a public and political discourse and see an adequate solution to the current Croatian problems, and the reason is clearly not knowing the basic historical facts related to this period. No one can be justified in the name of any ideology. For those young and old who know or want to know, antifascism is positive in the full sense of the word, unlike fascism that prescribed hatred and intolerance by its official laws and regulations. Although formally included in history reportedly defeated after II. World War I, fascism has returned in many ways and is returning to our places and to the premises of other European countries. Not quietly but very loudly. So the answer to the question is whether it's even defeated: unfortunately it's not. Do you know that in our beautiful hotel there is even a hotel called Ustasha chief, and the interior is filled with symbols and features of the Ustasha as well as characters of other fascist leaders and nothing. There is much in Croatia that falls within the category of intolerance, human rights violations, racism and political violence. All that fascism is based on. Indeed, according to Slovenian sociologist Ratko Power, the limit between fascism and antifascism is civilized. There is no civil society or democratic policy on the part of fascism. And then in itself, the answer is why the emphasis and the constant insistence on anti-fascism. Because it is necessary to recognise what is dangerous for civil society, because it is necessary to do everything to prevent the policy of one-mindedness, dictatorship, disrespect, intolerance, or anything that prevents democratic freedom of opinion. Because it is necessary to take away all the evils and cataclysms that Fascism has brought into the past in order never to happen again. The difference between, under quotes, pathological phenomena in our country and in one of the Western Europeans is the fact that, for example, "skinheads" is there, but it's clear to everyone what it's about. I wonder if you can imagine that the editor-in-chief of German state television resigns or answers to the court because the program shows a recording of a concert that says "Heil Hitler". Yeah. That's why fascism in Europe doesn't go away, even though it's there, and with us, it doesn't stop destroying the foundations of a society that's trying to free the dark shadows of the past anyway. Periodically, and lately very often from the media we learn news that does not refer to incidents of young people at concerts but precisely to the steps of those who have gone through forces and the haribde of fascist terror in our premises. For example, raising monuments to various Ustasha leaders and serving mass suffocating them. Mass destruction or devastation of monuments to the fallen antifascists and victims of fascists from the fascism from the folk-freedom struggle, and the latest examples are all well-known vandal desecration of monuments Josip Broz Tito in Kumrovec and the mining of monuments to anti-fascist fighters on Murter Riviera. Furthermore, for entry into Ustasha uniforms on the recent anniversary of homecoming in Zadar. The most absurd fact is that something like this happened precisely in a city that was knowingly sold or better said, committed to the occupation and whose first-hand residents felt the weight of a fascist terror boot and force... any sign of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And don't let me count on it. That is why antifascism is because we want the citizens of Croatia, especially young people, to learn that intolerance, intolerance of what is different and those who are different to the whole society. Are we finally going to define ourselves and make a clear and loud statement not to that avet without a fig in our pocket and thus take another big step towards a united Europe. Given that the text of the Declaration proposing SDP is more and more relevant, I urge you colleagues to vote this Declaration in the form in which I propose it to the SDP. Bringing the Antifascism Declaration will confirm the commitment of all of us, both the authorities and the opposition, to politically express their clear anti-fascist commitment, and this Declaration of Parliament will give the necessary recognition to all the participants of the anti-fascist movement, as well as their obligation to turn certain points of the Declaration into concrete legal solutions which will permanently and finally resolve their status and restore the dignity and thus reaffirm once again the foundation of our Constitution and our statehood. Although listening to the debate on this subject, I am afraid there is not too much hearing or understanding about the idea that this Declaration wanted to achieve, which is that we also join Europe free and united in marking the date of the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism. That date is close to the date of the local elections, however, is a random coincidence. Finally, I support my fellow Poropat in appeal to all of us, antifascism does not identify with betterism, communism or any other totalitarianism, because this would mean that all Europe and all the civilized world based on antifascism is totalitarian. And let me finish. And I join all those who have pointed out the need to punish all war crimes and criminals who have participated in them or have personally committed them under the cover of any ideologies or the winners, but it really has nothing to do with this Declaration and we can't put everyone... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36011	Thank you. We have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36012	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations, my colleague said that young people wear black T-shirts with an image of Ante Pavelic and that is why they do not know the facts. In fact, that's not true because the reason is because it's a reaction and resistance to all the lies that have been on us for 45 years. And young people now with this resistance, young people demand that they be admitted, to be revealed, to condemn all crimes committed under the cover of anti-fascism. Then you can only talk further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36013	The other one. Dear Representative Ivo Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36014	My colleague Perman should be able to correct her entire exposure, but here's just a few. Fascism destroys the foundations of society, so it's completely incorrect, with us communism destroys the foundations of society. Communism is the AIDS of civilization. I'm an anti-communist, anti-fascist and anti-fascist. So what are you talking about, please? On the other hand, you say there are various fascist features at various gatherings, which I strongly condemn. But gentlemen today in our Croatia we have a sickle and a hammer and a star, a red star five-pointed. A five-point star is a symbol of freedom, and a red star is a symbol of evil. Under the red star, Croatia was occupied in 91st, and then we had 1/3 occupied countries, 15 thousand killed people and more than 40,000 people with disabilities. Our history, our monuments and our churches, it's the so-called Antifascists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36015	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36016	I would first of all correct one inaccuracy about some kind of mass phenomenon that threatens everyone in the world, it's just a lie. I think it's... I would be the first to support this SDP proposal if it were to give up publicly the legacy of communism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36017	Fourth correction of the respected representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36018	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but colleagues have already corrected the fundamentals of what I was about to say and that a colleague is completely wrong and completely incorrectly suggesting that some fascism is destroying the foundations of this society, so what society do you colleagues live in? Certainly not the one I live in, because I haven't noticed that any fascism destroys anything in this society, it's a controversial phenomenon. However, your entire speech was one ideological rally from a time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36019	Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36020	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The representative said that young people wear black shirts with different characters at concerts, that they welcome fascist greetings and what I think is particularly problematic and that I want to correct, she said that young people in fascism see the solution to all Croatian problems. It would be tragic if it were, and I think it's unwise for a whole generation of young people to identify with fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36021	Dear representative Bozica Šolić, the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'll make one inaccuracies, quote in Mrs. Pervan's hearing. In her debate, MP Pervan stated that antifascism is the most light liquid of the Croatian people. Ma'am, that's not true, the entire Croatian people know that. The most light liquid of the Croatian people is the Homeland War. Homeland war. And I think you confused the pots in your discussion when you talked about fascism and anti-fascism. You haven't figured out all the crimes that happened under the cover of your anti-fascism. And Madam MPs, if this is the interpretation in this Declaration of the IDS and the SDP, I will not support her dead either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36023	Replica, replica, esteemed representative Marijan Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Perman, it is true that the Ustasha symbols appear here and there at concerts and various events, but in my opinion, it is a controversial and marginal thing that is often abused in order to create in public both our own and foreign impressions that we are still a people in whom fascism is glorified. Which, in reality, is not true. And you colleagues contribute to your irresponsible debate and create such an impression in public that it is not an honor for you. And I ask you not to do such things because it damages the reputation of Croatia in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36025	Dear Representative Anto Djapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36026	Mr. President, only a brief replica relating to a single inaccuracy that has been repeated several times and Mrs. Pervan has repeated it. When negatively connotation is given to the maintenance of suffocation mass for anyone. The basis of Christian science is that each one has the right to mass asphyxiation, or each one of us can ask anyone to hold a mass of suffocation and even for the worst of criminals if it comes to them. Thus, the foundation of Christianity is forgiveness and the foundation of work... Is that on everyone's request he has to hold the mass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing is whether these missions are then used for political manifestations but it is already another kind of problem but maintaining mass cannot be questionable at all for someone who knows the minimum of Christian commitment and world surveillance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36027	Thank you for the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36028	Pearl Perman, please, yes, but Mr. President said Pervan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36029	I told Perman, maybe it was unclear.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36030	I didn't think so. I didn't mean "storage letters" for people who died in any way, any of those criminals, not any criminals. It's done, it's done, let me finish, please. It's about the masses used for political talk and propaganda that these people have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36031	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Antun Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36032	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just have a few words. Today we are discussing the Proposition of the Antifascism Declaration, not the evil done under and in the name of antifascism. Therefore, we are talking, the evil that has been done should be divided, and it is individual and should be determined responsibility but we are talking here today about the Antifascism Declaration, about what is woven into the foundations of both the Croatian state and the Croatian Constitution and the antifascism that forms the foundations of Europe and the world. And that's why it's already been said several times in this assembly, here in Istria, antifascism was pure as a tear.". I have an obligation precisely because I come from these parts to explain why we in the Club of the SDP and we in Istria and personally feel that in this year, in the year that Europe marks the 60th year of the victory of the anti-fascist coalition in World War II that right now it is necessary to bring this declaration and without unnecessary bile to me which can possibly be shown in this assembly because we all simply have to be for those lasting values that antifascism has given to the world. And that is why I think that this declaration as an act of political will of this House should be passed by consensus and thus create assumptions that the law subsequently regulates those issues that this declaration, the SDP declaration, proposes. I am sure that the borders of Croatia were also created in the anti-fascist struggle, so no matter how much someone tried to deny it, and that, in fact, the honorable fighters of the Homeland War had to defend what anti-fascist fighters had created. If it hadn't been for luck. If it hadn't been for the anti-fascist struggle or the Homeland War fighters, we wouldn't have anything to defend. If it hadn't been for the anti-fascist struggle, we wouldn't have talked about Croatia's borders on the Dragonja River today, we wouldn't have mentioned the Piran Bay or the Savudrian Wave, and we wouldn't have opened many other issues because it would have reminded us that there were three political programmes in Croatia at the time of history. One was Machekov, who was a waiting policy and did nothing against the occupiers, collaborated with the royal government abroad, and returned to pre-war kingdom. The second was obviously Pavelicev, who was active in co-operation with the occupier and for the unreserved application of the fascist special Nazi programme and the dismembering of Croatia. And why not tell the historical truth? The third programme was Tito's anti-fascist programme, which only required the return of all Croatian countries and the creation of a united Croatia and among those countries and Istria. And I say again, and here, several times, it was said that antifascism in Istria was pure as a tear. I'm proud of it and then to say a few words that it wasn't, of course it wasn't clean as a tear just in Istria but also in some other parts, but in Istria it's also to see what the situation was really like at that time in Istria? After the fall of Venice in 1797, Istria fell under Austria and remained in the state formation until the end of World War II, World War I, and based on the secret provisions of the London Treaty, the Italian army was at the end of '18. years occupied Istria, Rijeka and other territories. Following the long-standing negotiations with the requirement for the border to be on Soca, a shameful Rapal Treaty was concluded on November 11th 1920, which was awarded by Italy by the Ilirija province and about 600,000 Croats and Slovenians remained within the borders of Italy and their right to own, their own decision on their own fate was passed. Then comes the period of fascist terror, and Istria remains out of its motherland of Croatia until the capitulation of Italy in 1943 when in Istria general known and generally accepted, a universal anti-fascist uprising involving both Croats and Italians and Slovenians and representatives of all peoples, which is historically known to be making historic, historical September decisions in Pazin concerning the merger with their Croatian brothers as originally standing in the 1943 declaration and then in Istria guaranteeing all national, human and other rights to Italian, indigenous Italian people living in those areas because Italian participants are also numerous, numerous participants in anti-fascist struggle. And that's when the building of co-existence begins in those areas that we proudly cherish today. So they wanted me to accept it or not, or I don't know how to say it is historic truth that the Partizan anti-fascist army freed Dalmatia, Istria and some other parts, but to God and Trieste. Months before the World Antifascist Coalition ended World War II. Instead of being ahead of the united Europe with such foundations, Croatia today and yesterday is on constant trial because Europe does not believe in our anti-fascism, and for which we ourselves are to blame. Bringing this declaration to this high house would show and confirm that we are a country built on the foundations of anti-fascism and have confirmed our position built by anti-fascist fighters. Because of this and much of what has already been said, I expect the declaration to be adopted, to create assumptions about the introduction of historical truth into school textbooks, to restore the monumental heritage of World War II and declare it a national treasure and to return the fighters from the anti-fascist struggle and the disabled from World War II, which is certainly less and less every day. They are given the right to return to them on the basis of health and pension and social rights and to equalize them in those rights with the participants of the Homeland War because both wars were anti-fascist. The declaration to adopt before the 60th anniversary of the victory of the anti-fascist coalition is very important and I hope it would also be one of the assumptions that this year when Europe celebrates that 60th anniversary of our country's representative will be there, not that Normandy will happen to us because in 1944 at Normandy Five Beaches, Umah, Yumo, Otak, I forgot. Five of them mostly, there were Croats. There were Croats. But the Croats were not in 1944 to celebrate the 60th year of the landing of allies in Normandy, and let's ask ourselves why we were not there. Let us accept this declaration and create assumptions that we will be equal this year with representatives of other countries to mark the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36033	Thank you very much. We've got eight reported for correcting an incorrect allegation. The first is Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Please stick to that correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36034	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, this House is not exactly what Mr. Peru is saying because this Parliament is afraid that it is really threatening that the promoters of this unmistakable declaration are thus leading this way to debate either, or, or you are either in favour of a declaration or you are against the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the fight against anti-fascism. So they do one division, and I don't think anyone discusses it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36035	Thank you. The other is Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36036	Mr. President, an honorary colleague has said that Istrian antifascism is pure as a tear. He's not as clean as a tear, because if he did, he'd put down a tear for 200 thousand killed or 100 kilometers away from Istria. Therefore, no antifascism in this area is as pure as tears until he admits it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36037	Correction, Mr. Ivo Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36038	Here's a colleague of Peru said, quote: "Titov's program was the return of Istria to Croatia" finished quote. A colleague is not true at all. The programme of Croatia's return to Istria was a programme of the Communist Party of Croatia. Croatian leftists and Croatian intellectuals left-wing. It's a historical truth. Then the Istrian anti-fascists worked on it and Comrade Tito had nothing to do with it. Even then, you were corrected and you said that Istria was present with its Croatian brothers, which is true 1943. And what fascism we're talking about here is what our dear colleague Andrija Hebrang feels best because his family tragedy was what his superiors called the so-called. Antifascists, when a man listens to it, his hair gets on his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36039	If Croatian politicians were to join Istria, it was Tito because he is also a Croat. You should. [[A bench incursion doesn't understand.]] You should but not unilaterally. Correction of Mr Branimir Pasecky's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36040	I'd just ask the question who said it was that everything in Istria is as clean as a tear. So I'll ask you then tell me if those foybes were invented by anti-fascists or communists? And now based on this rhetoric, it turns out that if we don't accept all that declaration here that we're all going to be who we're not going to vote for for her fascists. And I certainly won't vote for that declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36041	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36042	I thank Mr. Vice President, so I'm correcting the wrong quote of my colleague, Peru, who said that Machek's policy was a waiting policy. It was not a policy to wait for a colleague of Peru that was a policy not to accept any totalitarianism regardless of the color he wore. And as for the policy of Macek towards Croatia, enough is the creation of Banovina Croatia and the way Banovina Croatia was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36043	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36044	Dear Mr. Vice-President Perusko made an incorrect assumption in terms of saying that there was no anti-fascist there would be no Croatian defenders today to defend anything. That's an incorrect quote. Had it not been for Croatian defenders, there would have been no today's sovereign and democratic Croatian state. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36045	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36046	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of counterfeiting Croatian history. If Mr. Peru said that the anti-fascist principles have drawn the borders of the Croatian state. Sir, that border was supposed to be defended and defended by a Croatian soldier. From 1990 to 1995. If, by chance, the boundaries of the so-called An anti-fascist movement. But it was not that anti-fascist movement and those borders brought freedom to the Croatian people because both the first and second Yugoslavia was a prisoner of the Croatian people. So you mention Tito. It's not true that Tito was an anti-fascist. He dealt with the Croatian people 40th to 45th, 46th to 50th, and where 71th sir is, we will see and write it down by someone who is competent for this and not us who are neither historians nor historians and cheaply want to share the Croatian people. This isn't an election campaign your declaration, this is something else. You've been working on that consciousness that's been growing in you for 50 years, where your colleague Racan is the first to propose this declaration. Which he did not propose for 50 years in the Federal Assembly and not in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36047	Thank you very much. It's a little longer. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ruza Tomasic. [[Zdenka Babić Petričević, the pay phone is not included]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36048	Thank you very much Mr. Vice President, Mr. Peru said if we support this declaration we will show Europe that we are serious. And without condemning crimes committed under the cover of anti-fascism and at the same time being asked to investigate all the crimes committed by Croatian defenders during the Homeland War, then we will only show Europe that we are not serious. To selectively defend Croatian history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36049	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the corrections. It's up to debate Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36050	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In Split, there is 5.6 years of graphite and it says "We are small but we are Mr." I can't say any further because of the integrity of this Assembly. And this debate as much as we are a tragic people. As far as we are concerned, our Croatian national history can be measured with Jewish, Kurdish and Armenian. You see as today the whole world is fighting for the best present and future while fighting for computerization, we Croats are fighting for the best of the past. Gentlemen, you who have submitted these two declarations of history cannot change it we cannot make it better or worse. She's who she is. The communists lied for 45 years, but finally part of history came out. Because communists are still in power because they infiltrated everywhere this is just the return of a form of South-Communism. This has nothing to do with antifascism. I'm an anti-fascist, anti-Nazi and anti-Communist. Because these are the three evils that killed the greatest civilization value killed a man. With communism killing innocent people twice as much as Nazism and fascism together. My colleagues and colleagues Mahatma Gandhi and Mathatma in translation mean a great soul in his own time he said, "The hero is not the one who wins the military field but the one who wins his own weaknesses." It's a finished quote. Now listen to this and you who don't listen, just go outside and just let me talk. I quote "All Political Commissioners and All Units of the National Liberation Army." In late April 1945, There goes the next dumpling. I quote: "These days will provide an opportunity for the Communist Party of Yugoslavia to take over power in the entire lovely territory of Yugoslavia. That possibility will only exist for a few days or even a few hours. If we don't liquidate all our enemies in that time, that possibility will fail forever." A finished quote, signed by Joseph Broz Tito. This is a document from the historical archive of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. This document shows who ordered Bleiburg. It's tragic that President Tudjman had this document and wouldn't let it go to the Croatian public, then we wouldn't be talking about this today. And since I've condemned Nazism and fascism and I really think so, but let's see who these so-called. Antifascists. I quote: "The evacuation of Croats begins, we receive the order of the most vicious two-faced, i.e. To return the Croats to their enemies, i.e. The Titans in Yugoslavia, but under the impression we're sending them to Italy. At the same time, Tito's partisans are hidden in wagon compartments. These accompanying partisans seemed like a special bandit crew, though, the bandits. We Brits didn't hesitate that anything but simple executioners and criminals." It's a finished quote. This was written in his war log by Colonel Robin Preis in May 19th 1941. Let's see what the other British says about that so-called. Antifascists. That's Count Nikolai Tolstoy talking to Lord Toby Lou who blamed Bleiburg. And now he compares Tito and his great role model Stalin. I quote, "They're both cruel, they're murderers, but Tito and partisans killed prisoners right after they were handed over without a court, and they were beastly, and Stalin's men were a little more cultural, so they sent prisoners to other places, tried and killed them there, so we didn't see it, and one part ended up in the Gulazi." It's a finished quote. This is what Lord Toby Lou says. So this isn't someone on the other side. And let's see what those anti-fascists say about the anti-fascists themselves. Titov Partizan Ivan Gugić, born from Velika Luka on the island of Korčula in Rome on 14 August 1953, gave his statement. I quote, "We kept prisoners until the truck arrived, where we loaded them. We were full for 8 days in Kočev, and daily there were 10 and more trains with 10 to 20 wagons closed. The trains were mostly men and several women who were raped by Partisans before the shooting. Between 30,000 and 40,000 people were killed in these pits." Testify Gugic and continue. "According to the departments we prepared from Kočevje, more than 30,000 were killed. My 3rd company was designated to escort and secure a newly formed unit that was chosen to kill the captured Croatian, Slovenian and German armies. They were ordered by Captain Nikola Marcic of the region of Makarska. The commissioner of the company was Ivan Brokesh, a Montenegrin. And the commander-in-chief was Simo Dubaic of Kistanje. As far as women are concerned, they were taken to the losing places by dressed men and raped in the most cruel way. Except for the women I saw" Continues Guggic. "And about 200 boys between the ages of 4 and 16. And what's scariest" He continues. "There was no trial and trial. Everyone brought to Kocheva had to die." It's a finished quote. After this statement in 1953 in Rome, the marriage killed Ivan Gugic. The second Titov Partizan Trpimir Kojivić witnessed in 1988, so in communist times. And I quote: "The columns of the Korduan Serbs were placed before Sisak on both sides of the road with all possible tools used in agriculture. They made us go between them in ranks and there was no man from a column that wasn't mutilated, even some of us partisan. About a thousand people were killed there, and the partisans from our escort killed them from the gun." The same witness continues as he was in a column of 25 thousand people heading over Derventa to Doboy. On one ice, I was among the 300 people who dug the pits in which the partisans put them, which we had to bury. Now watch this, this is very scary. These are also anti-fascists. Which we had to bury all the way up to their shoulders, just to blow their heads off. Afterwards, Serb peasants were brought from nearby villages with five arms on their heads and civilian wards, which were dragged around by horses, oxes, toothpicks and wooden locusts, dams by the heads of these unfortunate people. All of this was attended by Koca Popovic and a senior Partisan officer. This is being witnessed by partisan, this so-called. An antifascist. Now I can't convince the time, but take the Belgrade newspapers, especially the 1990s Belgrade Debt, as Simo Dubaic said he was there in an hour because he bet with someone, he knew how to kill 100 people. After that, he'd get some rest, light a cigarette and have some brandy. And now let me tell you about a terrible crime that took place on 31 December 1942 and on 1 January 43rd in Žumberk when the Partisans captured 322 Croatian soldiers. They weren't Ustashas. They were natives. They killed 218 of them. This was done by Comrade Rade Bulat, his friend Milka Kufrin, Marko Belinić and Lutva Ahmetovic. Rade Bulat writes in his book "Jumberak and Poblje in NOB." I quote, "We welcomed that day with sweetness that we kill bandits on New Year's Eve, I must say I've never slaughtered sweeter in my life." It's a finished quote. He was eventually a general of the Yugoslav People's Army. I could still read to you. And as for Comrade Tito, it's one of the greatest criminals in the history of civilization. Have you heard what he ordered now and our historians, shame on them, come to these archives and take this document and see who ordered the Blaiburg. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm saying this from the heart. Let's not share anymore. We're all anti-fascists. We're all anti-Nazis. I condemn evil. For me, man is the greatest civilization value, but let's finally figure out who was a true anti-fascist and who was a fascist, because these so-called. The antifascists were slaughtering worse than their fascist role models. I'm glad there's a colleague of ours, Vice Vukov, who, three, four years ago, if I remember a great essay, wrote in the Vesnik about so-called. June 22nd, so-called A day of anti-fascist struggle. And that's only one day when one group...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36051	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36052	Let me finish, please. When a group of partisans left, a communist went into the woods because their mother Russia was attacked. And while he was enslaved together, slaughtered, killed, and torn up Europe by Hitler and Stalin, so-called. Croatian anti-fascists kept quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36053	Thank you. ... It's strangely no correction. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36054	Honored Mr. Vice President and Honorable Mr. Representatives. I'll try to pollemize with part of the MPs and first with Mr. Djakic. The first thing I'm saying is that IDS was against what's-his-name. Pancic's law against deny rights to the disabled, the fighters of the Homeland War. The law was passed on to 18. Ten. 2001. IDS has been out of government since 5 months and 2001. And then, I quote, I said, "If someone was killed in this war," it means Homeland, "if that someone from this war came back as a disabled person, then let's not tarnish existing rights based on disability. Let's get that real cripple to the existing amount of another kuna, and take everything away from him with the fake one. That would be moral, that would be civilized, that would be one proper behavior." I'm sure I have 10 speeches in this House. And those who were before you will confirm those words of mine. There was no case without saying that compensation should be paid to people with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they were found there or placed under the command of Franjo Tudjman and Gojko Suška regardless of what I thought of the war. There's something else I want to say. I will never, nor can historical truths, I do not think that anyone should put a split between the Partisan movement in Istria or Dalmatia as it seemed in these discussions and the one that was led in Kordun, Lica or Zagorje, where the note of Bene was also held by the late Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. I simply cannot accept the the thesis that the Partisan movement in Istria was quoted as "clean, and not elsewhere." The values that anti-fascists were both in Istria and elsewhere throughout Croatia, Slovenia and so on were identical even though I agree that individuals after World War II or during World War II knew how to do as Mr. Sheks said terrible and aberration. True as Luka Bebić, vice president of the Parliament, Istrian anti-fascism did not begin in 1941 or 1939 when World War II began. It appears 20 years earlier, which is certainly a unique case in Europe and so much and with this beginning of resistance on European soil, our citizens should be proud. While Pavelic was hiding under Mussolini's rule, the Croatians, Slovenians and Romanians, the Italian population in Istria literally rose against Mussolini. However, I will say once again: the goals in Istria and elsewhere in Croatia, Slovenia and so on in my deep court were the same: fighting for social justice, fighting for national emancipation. The truth is the Italian Communist Party and, in general, Italian anti-fascist circles were against Waiver decisions. Not everyone, one good part yes. But they still participated in the NOB. They were against secession from Italy but also against the fascist government as well as full respect for both Croatians and Croatian and Slovenian peoples. It is also true that by 1943, as Mr. Loncar spoke to the Communist Party between the Croats and Slovenians when Istria did not leave a deeper trail than its influence on the Italians in Istria, but it was the influence of the Italian Communist Party, which is somehow understandable because of the relationship between the rural and urban parties. The Communist Party was therefore a logical choice of Croats and Slovenians who emigrated between the two wars to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. So these people, the Istrian emigrants, return to Istria in 1943 and de facto direct the uprising. Maybe that's why some methods may have been a little rougher, but then gentlemen were literally choices. Between Pavelic means, both Mussolini and Tito, and that Istria has never had a dilemma. She's the one who turned herself in for Tito. So she couldn't for Pavelic, who sold Dalmatia to Mussolini and Horti to the mountains of Međimurje and Baranja. It is also interesting that the provincial National Liberation Committee for Istria is transformed into a district and so on that I read as a form of loss of some autonomy in that space from that movement. But I'll tell Mr. Yukic. For me, the Treasures of Zadar and the President of the People's Liberation Committee in Istria, Joachim Rakovac, are simply the same. One more word I'm going to say... was led by Tito and the choice of Istrians, but also most Croats, Serbs I hold to be logical at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone asked themselves, perhaps Mr. Hebrang, what did Tito do for Istria? So before the troops freed Rijeka, Pula and so on was released Trieste or came to Trieste. And if by any chance there was a different question of what the future of these spaces would be. What happened in 1918 happened again. When Danuncio came to Rijeka. Anything further west than that, and the river was negotiated was Italian and vice versa. Everything east of Trieste has become simply Croatian and Slovenian. And it means so much of this story that the Partisan movement was Serbian or Chetnic gentlemen who had the opportunity to listen here simply don't stand. I beg you the Ustasha movement is not equal to Croatia. Chetnik movement is not Serbs. I regret, however, that the anti-fascist movement has lost, lost, and is losing today in this House. Croatia has just had the most borderline movement. Croatia has just given the most fighters and so on. The truth is, every war is an accident. Every war is evil. I don't mean defensive. It is as necessary as the note of bene was the Homeland War because it was a struggle for the naked survival of this state and the people. In every war, there was also an overrun of the necessary defense. So much of this tooth tooth policy was applied at that time, or as Mr. Shakespeare says, and then these aberrations took place. That must have been bad, and I'm sorry. But when war is also a battle for territory he is cruel, he is ruthless. It is easy today in 2005 to say what happened in Istria in 1943 or elsewhere. Mr. Boras, but not only Mr. Boras, Mr. Hebrang mentioned that in Slovenia it was killed after the war ended, I quote Mr. Boras: "190 to 240 thousand people or 250 to 300 thousand people." Mr. Hebrang used a number of 200 thousand people. It's a gentlemen's absurd. Let's not play with those numbers, let's not exaggerate it. It is on the trail of those equally monstrous qualifications of 700 thousand killed in Jasenovac. It's dangerous lies and dangerous simple things. But I agree with Mr. Boras. If someone innocently died in that pit, then someone deserves to be buried and mourned and rehabilitated. Because a pit can't be a tomb. But I can't put a distinction between the NOB in Istria, Dalmatia, and let's say Kordun because they were free movement, for national emancipation, against that hegemony of the king, or I don't know who and it was some kind of battle for social justice. Absolutely Homeland War is sacred. He can neither be questioned nor questioned. But this Declaration, as I look at the IDS declaration. It's not a declaration of the past. It's a declaration in the present. Because if pension returns are based on the Constitutional Court's decision, the modern subject is, then gentlemen are also the return of rights to the National Liberation War fighters, the topic of life, the existential theme, one word of the subject that treats both pensions and disability and these political prisoners and social rights, and so on. I agree that it costs our calculations about 500 million kuna. There are those who speak two or three times more, but if we're ready to set a deadline in which it could be corrected, maybe we could achieve a modulation not to get out of this assembly in a way that we can once again defeat the anti-fascist movement as it did in the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36055	In the early 1990 ’ s, antifascism was not annulled, a heavy charge. At the head of the 1990s, there was an anti-fascist fighter against fascism and Nazism, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. And because of this insult to the entire generation, to all the political leadership you've expressed in this sentence, I'm seriously giving you a heads-up. Because it is an insult to all those who wanted a constitutional and legal basis based entirely on the right to self-determination and secession to create a Croatian state. At the head of those, he wasn't an opponent of anti-fascism, he was an anti-fascist. That's why I'm giving you a warning. And when I start saying something, let me try, I try to ask you the whole system in the world if the consequence of fighting and against fascism and not only that is what the whole democratic world is all about. All the countries of the West where we claim democracy. And that's all I think it's about today. This isn't a courtroom or a historic institute. But we're talking about being set up on our own on the basis of our constitution, on the basis of antifascism. Which doesn't exclude everything that we said couldn't be sold under an anti-fascism company and hidden the crimes that were committed under that company. But we're talking about the process, we're talking about a worldwide effort to defeat fascism and Nazism. And these are the great coalition that was created and made by the Croatian people and citizens of Croatia a huge contribution. And insults when someone wants or won't invite Croatia to participate as a significant factor in the fight against fascism. I hardened yesterday, and behind this I remain that in the Croatian people, Slovenians and Italians Istria are world champions, not regional or European, world champions, so to speak in the fight against fascism. That's one. That doesn't mean that later there wasn't everything that you've been putting out here justifiably. But we as the people who participated, please, the people who mass-partied 11 Corpses whatever she was and whatever she was doing in World War II but fought Fascism among other things, the five Corpses of 11 and those five Corpses were numerically greater than these other 6. So you're not saying here that there were crimes committed. If someone put a five-pointer in 45 and before that, a criminal no matter what sign he was still a criminal. And that's not where we need to discuss and prove it now. That's why I'm saying let's leave history. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] Let's leave it to history. Let's not open a lawsuit here. It's like we're in court, and now we're gonna prove each other. I'm not contesting any of the facts that are being presented but is there a place to say it here today? That's what I'm asking you. Oh, please, how are we going to end this session at this exhibit again we have eight corrections of incorrect allegations. I'm begging you, plus another breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to reduce this debate into reasonable frameworks. I don't challenge anyone's right or argument. But where does that lead us? That's what I'm talking about. I'm not saying I'm not contesting anything. Please, nice. First was the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Anto Djapic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36056	Mr. Vice President, Article 214 has been injured, which says, the MP is being told a warning if he does not stick to the topic under discussion in his speech. You said one warning if you were second then you'd take away his right word so I don't want to, I want to hear more Mr. Cain. But a colleague of Cain's has been constantly trying to violate the Rules of Procedure and provoke MPs who speak critically of this pamphlet of his to this declaration. It's like someone here was talking in the mouths about NDH, about Pavelic. None of the MPs and MPs who were polluted with his pamphlet mentioned either Ustasha or NDH but spoke more than correctly I would say, and argued. And that's why he deserved a warning. Since I'm already withdrawing my notice request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36057	Thank you very much. Please let us narrow down if we can do so in any way into one tolerance. No one's argument will be able to stop or prevent anything. But I'm talking about how we founded our country on the principles of anti-fascism, too, and put it in the Constitution. Well, then let's not discuss other things. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36058	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine where he claimed he was not against the abolition of the rights of Croatian defenders. That's incorrect. You could argue and protect their rights but in common... To the coalition, you have passed laws that have abolished their rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36059	Correction, Mr. Ivo Lonchar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36060	Mr. President, I hope you'll allow me before you start measuring my time. You say it a little while ago, and I agree with you, let's bring this debate to an end. You see the Great Lady on August 15, two men were killed, and this one woman is yelling at Marianne, "Let him go." And he says to her, well, I'd let him go, but he won't let me go. Come on, please, now here's where I start to measure. My colleague Cain said I literally quote, "I agree that individuals could commit a few crimes." It's a finished quote. So imagine how hypocritical this is and how offensive this is at least after my discussion and you see how many books there are here. So the head of crime and the head of the criminal organization of those so-called so-called. The anti-fascist himself was Comrade Tito. That pet is white. Which was at the discretion of more than one quintal. Look. During this, the second Tito after 71 years was made the greatest memory of Croatian intellectuals. 3,000 people were convicted, 4000 expelled from work and 70,000 expelled from the Communist Party, which was also an outcast and life and so on. And now another quote: "The Communist Party did not leave a deeper trail in Istria until 43." She had nothing to do with this honorable anti-fascist movement in Istria. That's it. And let me say, the crime rate of Comrade Tito. So we learned from communist history that in 41st Yugoslavia, there were 6,000 members of the Communist party and 12,000 members of the farmers. And therefore, such an order to kill all enemies as soon as possible because they could not take power otherwise. So in the very foundations is a crime and Comrade Tito is one of the greatest criminals in the history of civilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36061	Can we refrain from talking about the text of this proposed Declaration? Come on, let's not just, we can talk like that for 15 days all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36062	We are all anti-fascists, what, Croatia was created in 91st and finished. And that's what we let history go to historians.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36063	Mrs. Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36064	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain said the Chetnik movement, the Ustasha movement and the anti-fascist movement are not the same as some said. I'm sorry, but that's not what anyone was talking about. We were just saying that 44th and 45th Partisans were attended by Chetniks who held back the same acts they gained in Chetniks and they were admitted. Even later, they are recognized as folk heroes, and we are all asking Mr. Cain and the pronouns to include in the Declaration any amendments condemning any biases within the anti-fascist movement as well as war crimes committed in his work, then we will confess that declaration. But it looks like they want everything else but that's not what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36065	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36066	Mr. President, there's no mandate from those decent people who keep quiet here because they can't fit in with the kind of discussion. But I think there's a lot of them who share this opinion with me. That this way of discussing this, this Declaration, this topic is the delegation of this Parliament. If you, Mr. President, chair, allow this kind of debate. I know that by what you've said yourself you don't share such opinions, but if in this House you can say the words of a guy that Tito is the head of a criminal anti-fascist organization, that I don't speak any further, then we've offended this Parliament, then we've done something so terrible that we've excluded ourselves from what we think we belong. This type of diction that has nothing to do with historical truths comes with historical truths, which speaks of this or that which, which is not equipped by almost any debater here was. This doesn't make any sense. I ask you to carry out your duties and not allow this kind of discussion. I'll honestly say, I can't speak for the club, I'm not sitting on that kind of discussion about this topic in this House. For whom many, gentlemen, on one side and on this side expected much and gave much. This is what it's supposed to be, this kind of discussion ending, Mr. President. This does not belong to democracy or to parliamentary freedom. ... Yeah, me, I imposed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wonder where you were when I imposed it. Dude. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36067	Please, please, please. I'm obliged to abide by the Rules of Procedure. Here, a few other colleagues and colleagues reported a correction of the incorrect allegations. I suggest that these corrections to the incorrect allegations be completed, then I will give my word to the representatives of the SDP Club to Mrs Milanki Opačić. Come on, please, let's finish these papers. Here, Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petrichevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36068	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I will speak freely in this House because freedom was created in this Parliament and the Croatian people in 1990. So if Mr. Cain, a colleague of Cain, tries to defend our historical realities, calls historical facts losers, he's a loser, and I don't consider myself a winner. I became a winner when he became a free Croatian people in 1990 until the 95th Sovereign. And to talk about something that someone tells us to and suggest declarations and they call themselves culturalists, and we're non-cultural because we're trying to disprove what no one can deny, and I repeat, the historical reality. Well, those culturers have forbidden us to speak for 72 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36069	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36070	Sir, that amendment first, you've already confirmed and corrected it with your own warning. And this second, it's one general text that's being run around in these discussions all the time. How anti-fascist fighting, or Tito's communists, was it not for them not to have a free Croatia. It is simply a lie because Tito's communists, and when I say the Titos, they are freed from all Croatian communists, they did not fight for Croatia. They fought for Yugoslavia, and that is true, England kept the refugee Yugoslav government until 44th, counting on it to bring them back. And then they supported Tito because this famous guerrilla, Draža Mihajlovic, lost the battle, the famous Eli on Neretva, and then they bowed to the partisans. It is true, and unfortunately, Croatia’s people have been constantly wronged over the past 50 years about the so-called anti-fascists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36071	This was a real correction. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36072	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect that Mr. Cain said that the number of 200 thousand victims of Bleiburg and Crossroad was incorrect. I can't unfortunately count those victims because we're not allowed to look for their graves. And just preventing a debate about it can also hypertrophicize that number. But I will refer Mr. Cain to the sources of my claims. Open up, Mr. Cain, on the website of Bleiburg, you will find over 2 hundred 40 and some references. Study each and every one of them and study the deeds they are called upon. 90% of these references are from foreign sources and revolve around this number.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36073	Thank you very much. And now, here you are, on behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36074	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I am asking you on behalf of the SDP Club for half an hour because the SDP Club must take a position on whether and in what way we will continue to work in this Chamber and continue working at this level of debate that we have discussed since this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36075	We've received a reasoned proposal for a break. I'm setting a break and we start at 10 to 12. So it's 11 and 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36076	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. Please, the SDP counseling club asked for a break. Dear representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36077	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club asked for a break because we wanted to consult on how to continue further discussion on the Antifascism Declaration. The aim of our Declaration on which the debate was opened today was primarily to join all the countries of the European Union, which in this year marks the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism, brings such acts to the attention of each country once again to the great value of the anti-fascist fight and to confirm each country once more as a country that has expired, as well as Croatia, on anti-fascist values. Antifascism is neither coloured party nor national. It is the value of the world, it is the value of all European countries and the European Union to which we seek. Unfortunately, in this House yesterday afternoon and in the morning, hate speech by individual MPs has absolutely not contributed to the reputation of neither the Croatian Parliament nor Croatia as a pro-European country. Because the debate has started in one completely wrong direction, we from the SDP Club are giving up all our further discussions. We invite all those who think as much as we do to join in. As the promoters of this Declaration, we call, therefore, for this debate to be terminated and for us to sit together as representatives of clubs and to see how we agree on a declaration that would be acceptable and which this Assembly will vote with as many votes as possible. We can discuss and we are willing to discuss all the details, but of course we cannot accept that the spirit of the Declaration that we have proposed is changing. So, we're as promoters on behalf of the SDP Club ready to agree. We're not ready for this debate that took place in the morning. If this, dear colleagues and colleagues, you are not prepared to accept it will be a declaration voted only by the SDP Club, which will be voted only by the Social Democrats, but also by all other clubs and individuals who hold that antifascism is constitutional value and respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36078	If I understand correctly, your proposal is to suspend the debate, to find the representatives of the clubs and agree to continue the debate? ... We have several corrections of incorrect allegations that we must resolve. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask the MPs that indeed in these corrections they limit themselves to what is necessary. And the HDZ Representatives' Club is looking for a break. ... Maria Byte, vice president of the club, but let's go to these corrections first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36079	A colleague of Milanka Opacic, on behalf of the SDP Club, says he was here for a hate speech. It's completely incorrect if she didn't mean a speech by party members. We finally have to figure out... Wait a minute, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you nicely, if you're going to listen, listen, if you won't, go ahead outside. Sir... I've brought out a lot of arguments here, colleagues and colleagues, and I've got a bunch of books, read it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I am an anti-fascist, but in Croatia we must finally define who is an anti-fascist, who are anti-fascists, what is Croatian anti-fascism? Is Comrade Tito an anti-fascist? Is Comrade Tito an anti-fascist?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36080	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36081	You just heard his order from April 45th. It is the original document from the archives of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. And don't play with it, let's not discuss these things now. Let's turn forward, and let's not fight for the better past. We don't need the past, we can't fix it with anything, we can't make it better or worse, she's who she is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36082	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36083	The Party has lied for 60 years...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36084	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36085	...and it didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36086	Stjepan Bačić, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36087	Well, as well as Mr. Lonchar, I'm correcting the assumption that yesterday afternoon and morning he was at the act of hate speech. That's incorrect. The work was to bring out facts that may not have had the opportunity to be told by now. That was the purpose of this debate. To establish the truth in some things, not hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36088	Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36089	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We didn't speak with hate speech yesterday or today, but we spoke with the truth because so far we haven't had a chance to present all the data we gave today and yesterday. Well, here's one ever since, ma'am, this isn't a hate speech, Mrs. Opacic, it's a speech of truth. In October 44th, he was captured by partisans, taken away...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36090	It's no longer a correction, don't go on. No, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36091	Yes, these are the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36092	One is a debate in one direction, another is a debate that interferes with antifascism and interferes, a debate where crimes are mixed in the name of antifascism. That's what I'm supposed to do. Don't teach me what to say. ... Thank you very much for your comment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There are those looking for a club break. Mrs. Maria Byte, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, because of the situation and taking a stand in our Club, we ask a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36094	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36095	Mr. President, the Croatian Foreign Law Club is also seeking a break for taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36096	Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36097	And the HSS Club is looking for a break to take a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36098	Mr. Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36099	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. President, a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36100	Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36101	On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break for a speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36102	And Mr. Piploic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36103	On behalf of the DC Club, HSLS and LS, I'm looking for a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36104	We now have requests and proposals for a break, and at the same time we have a proposal to find representatives of clubs. I will set this 30-minute break for clubs, and I ask that the presidents or representatives of the clubs be present at that stop and try to find a reasonable solution regarding the continuation of this debate. I pray that you have a break for the clubs for 30 minutes, and then we can meet after that club break, and then I'll have the presidents or the club representatives. Continuing is then, we will proceed at 13 o'clock, that we have enough time for consultations. Ladies and gentlemen, after this break and after the consultations, after meeting the president or representatives of the parliamentary parties' clubs who were held at my office, where all the presidents or representatives of clubs were invited, they were all except for not present at the Club of Representatives of the HSP. All of these other presidents or representatives of the clubs agreed: to suspend today the debate on the proposal of these two declarations, that one three-member working group consisting of representatives of the proposings, from the IDS of Mr Walter Porpot, from the SDP also on behalf of the motion of Mr Antun Vujic and from the Club of Representatives of Mr Ivan Jarnjak, that the three-member working group on the basis and the basis of two proposed declarations which are the subject of the debate, but taking into account also the proposals presented by other parties or proposals to be presented by Wednesday would draw up a draft of a declaration which, once the working group has drawn up a draft of those declarations, would re-examine at the meeting of the presidents or representatives of all parliamentary clubs in order to try to reach a consensus on one declaration. Please accept that because that's the deal. All right. Honored representative on behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36106	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian party of rights disagree with the interruption of the debate, and most of all because the reasons mentioned in the article by Mrs Opačić, who, on behalf of the SDP Club, said she was looking for a break, which later extended until these late afternoon hours, for the reason that hate speech appeared in the Croatian Parliament, so they sought a break to take their stand. Then how did the event develop then here we see. We keep it in the Club of Croatian Party Rights at least when it comes to our Club that none of our party's representatives have stepped down from the position of hate speech and that reason is unacceptable for us to stop working. If other clubs who spoke sharply about the specific aspects of these declarations that appeared withdraw their speeches, that is their problem. But in Croatia, we do not hold the party rights to hurt anyone with any word. We do not hold on to the argument of political insults for anyone, and therefore we do not agree that this is the way the assembly session ends on this point. More than we normally believe that the debate on this topic was not needed at this time because the Croatian Constitution clearly defines Croatia as a country based on the plantings of anti-fascist combat, which is acceptable to us in Croatia. In this direction, if, in such a way, a systematic constant demonstration of something is being put in place, and through these declarations, two of which we had to identify all the activities of NOB with anti-fascist combat, then he, the promoter, knew it was a provocation, there was a trap or ignorance that was supposed to open in the Croatian Parliament, a historical debate that we, at least I hope, were in HSP, we were overcame by the Homeland War in which, for the first time together, children said here the Ustasha and Partisan together fought for the creation of an independent and independent Croatian state. In this direction, we hold that we do not need any such declaration of character and content, because it is unquestionable that of those thesiss that have appeared in this declaration, which are mostly from 11 points 7, 8 spoken of rights and privileges which do not have a slight connection with the declarative character, when it comes to declarations or even resolutions about the Croatian Parliament, because we did not mention in any of those articles the rights of Croatian defenders in the Declaration of Homeland War. Since the Homeland War Declaration, no point has mentioned rights, and in these declarations they're practically all talking about some rights, privileges and so on. This is regulated by legal regulations, financial possibilities, not declarations in the Croatian Parliament. As a result, I hold that after being forced by the rabbit, the fox was expelled that there was no reason or need to interrupt our assembly session, but, in our conviction, there was a parliamentary debate to be concluded because there were not many more registered speakers. I don't know 7, 8, 10 at the most, and that session ends, and then after that, eventually if clubs can agree to or not vote on it. In this way we introduce a new practice in which we start with a point in debate, and then before the end of this parliamentary debate without the consensus of all parties and I would even say to all MPs, and all MPs we practically interrupt and put into a position very, very uncomfortable. I could ask for an individual vote about it right now, but I'm not going to do it because of the colleagues who were talking here, the way he was answering me. Not to put them in an awkward position so they have to vote against their own beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36107	Thank you very much. I also report to the Croatian Parliament that I also received proposals from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, from the SAB and others that the Croatian Parliament is to be included in a certain way in the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II and the victory over fascism, so I schedule a session of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament that will discuss and decide how the organised and functional Croatian Parliament will be involved. So please the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament at 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday. And now for this point of view of the procedural Club of HSP MPs, which disagrees with the interruption of the debate, I would allow the Croatian Parliament to decide on this. Please, which one of the MPs and MPs is it that we stop discussing this issue today and continue after this commission? Thank you. Against? I find that, apart from the five MPs who are against it, all the other MPs and MPs are in favour of this interruption of the debate, and we will end this debate in that direction. Please make this commission, this one, immediately agree, eat. Not literally right away. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would, in no time, interrupt the debate on the State Audit Office reports and the audits carried out. After the discussion was held on the proposal of two declarations by the two clubs, the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the IDS on Antifascism after that debate and those breaks and agreements was appointed by agreement at a meeting of the presidents of the clubs of all parliamentary parties, except that the Club of Representatives of the HSP was not present, a working group composed of three representatives. On behalf of the promoter were representatives of Antun Vujic, who was on behalf of the Club and the SDP and on behalf of the IDS Club, who was the promoter of the second resolution, the respected representative of Valter Porpad and, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ivan Jarnjak. This task force put together a proposal for a declaration of anti-fascism. And the proposal for that declaration is in agreement and is in front of you. This declaration was signed by the SDP, IDS, HDZ, PGS, HSS, HSS, HSS, DSS, LS, SDSS and National Minority Representatives Club. There is, on the one hand, a proposal for a declaration of all these numbered clubs of parliamentary parties and there is another proposal for a separate declaration submitted by the HSP Representatives Club. We've had all the discussions. And since these other clubs that have been numbered have agreed on the text of the declaration, there is also a club of HSP representatives. And I give my word to the club president, the respected representative of Anti Djapic, to explain the proposal for a declaration on the anti-fascism of the HSP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36109	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a little inaccuracy. We didn't finish the debate, we broke up the debate. It was, the intention to continue the debate, however, okay if most decide that they will not go forward with the debate allow us to at least explain the reasons for submitting our Antifascism Declaration. In the Club of the Croatian Party of Rights and in HSP, we believe that this is one of the most sensitive topics of Croatian politics in which it has been trying for years to reach a general consensus, a consensus on attitudes which is antifascism and the values of antifascism on Croatian opportunities. We, as a party, took part in the discussion of those two declarations submitted by SDP clubs and IDS clubs. We took into consideration this harmonised text which you all clubs except the Croatian party signed and we felt that we had to make our maximum contribution and try to bring a common position on this topic of the Croatian Parliament and one joint declaration. I would like to point out that every responsible political party in this House knows how much we have put our efforts within our party and our club to give one such document to all of us, it is far above the table because if we were to look only at the narrow party interests, we would not propose a Declaration of Antifascism. But we are aware of the needs of the Croatian moment and European integration that Croatia is seeking and finally its clear commitment and efforts to the anti-fascist democratic justification and commitment of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian society to make our contribution and to try unanimously if it is possible to bring one of these declarations. I would like you to recognize, all the other clubs our desire to do so, so that tomorrow it will not be said that the Croatian party of rights does not support anti-fascist values, we have clearly defined ourselves for them in this proposal for a declaration of anti-fascism. And I hold that's exactly what makes the declaration. The declaration does not go into detail, the declaration is based, our proposal for a declaration is absolutely based on the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It confirms the unequivocal acceptance of the fundamental value of antifascism in the Republic of Croatia and everything else, that I do not read what you have in this proposal declaration. She can't be slow to anyone. So I'm saying that when we talk about consensus that this is one, I'd say the maximum consensus that can be achieved. Everything above this framework is already, we enter that domain of behavior and political evaluations that we had the other day here in the Croatian Parliament. And I appeal to all parties, to all clubs, to all MPs to support our declaration because it is not our declaration, it should be a declaration of the Croatian Parliament in which parties from right to left about these seven articles we have proposed can agree and finally say once that around these values we have a unique position in Croatian society, especially here in the Croatian Parliament as the highest presidential body of the Croatian people. If, in that case, the clubs that co-signed this proposal of another Antifascism Declaration, which has not been discussed as said by the President of the Croatian Parliament, in this case we insist on voting on our declaration because, through this vote on our declaration of statement to the Croatian public and across the Croatian public, it shows what our position on Croatian anti-fascism, antifascism as values in Europe and the world at all, so that there will be no more perspective of possible and objections or qualifications and assessments of what the views and Croatian parties are on antifascism rights. Mr. President, I thank you for the word that you gave me and I appeal to all the MPs that, or maybe another time we might meet, another time maybe we can talk. So we are for consensus, we want to try to come, we want to vote, we want to be a part of that value system, but I would like everyone else to understand that consensus requires compromises and requests, but not compromises, but one healthy compromise that I hold absolutely contains these seven articles, in which no one is, I would say, in this debate nor defeated, no one is a winner, but simply has the possibility that in the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism we bring one joint declaration. So I'm saying if it is, the firmer attitudes of the other clubs are already taken, then I expect to vote on that, the proposal for a declaration, and this proposal for a declaration to be voted on. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36110	Thank you very much. We will vote clearly on both declarations Agent Cain, we've agreed with the views, you've agreed with all the other clubs, and no more debates. ... [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Agent Cain, you haven't received your word, Cain, you haven't received your word, please sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36111	We've been looking for a break for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36112	You didn't get the word, Mr. Cain. So don't, stick to one row, if we all agreed, all these clubs around the text and you signed the same, don't look for a break now and... They won't discuss anything else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No Discussion So because this one proposal for a declaration that these 8, 9 clubs all signed, the second proposal from the HSP Representatives' Club heard the release, we're going to vote on those two declarations. ... [[So why don't we have a debate.]] Well, you'll express it through the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, be tolerant. ... My colleague Cain, I can't deny you a break, but please don't insist on it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go vote on these two, we've had all the debates already. Let's not reopen the hearing, please. I accept that you're giving up your proposal. My colleague Cain, I am giving the Parliament a decision to vote whether or not we are going to open any further debates or not. Please, who's in favor of no further discussion being opened? Thank you. Who's against it? 93 is against any further debate, 8 is for, so the result is obvious. Now first I'm going to put on the vote proposal for a declaration that they proposed... Mr. Representative Bebic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36113	Since I have been informed by one part of the MPs that they have not brought the keys, although I have warned them, I ask that the statement of these declarations be made by handlifting.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36114	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36115	We are now in a situation where we have found ourselves in our own time. There are two competing provisions of the Rules of Procedure, one that allows when a vote is asked to be raised by hand, the other when voted individually, we have not resolved this through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure which has not been adopted and both are still equally valuable in my position since we do not vote by electronic means, I will choose to accept that proposal which was put to the vote by the hand, because then there was a position taken that if in the competition with the electronic vote two proposals, one to vote by name, the other to vote with the raise of hands that it cannot be voted by an electronic vote, but rather by a name. The situation here is such that they compete with two equally valuable proposals, so we'll go to the vote by raising our hands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36116	I just want to remind you that then this situation has led to a small parliamentary crisis. I wouldn't want our relationship to be in crisis over that, because of the way we vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36117	It won't lead to small or large. We're going to the vote. Declaration of SDP, IDS, HDZ, HNS, PGS, HSS, HSU, HSLS, DC, LS, SDSS and National Minority Representatives Club. Who's in favour of this motion declaration? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that the proposal of the Declaration of these clubs has been accepted by 91 votes, 2 against and 8 abstentions. I am now voting on the proposal for a Declaration on the Antifascism of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Please, who's against this proposal? Thank you. Restraint? Against 51, for 12, 38 abstentions. She didn't get the necessary majority. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in these sad days of mourning of all Croatian citizens, I ask you to pay our respects to the deceased John Paul II, our dear and beloved Pope, in peace and together with the minutes of silence. - A moment of silence - May it be eternal glory and thank you forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36727	Ladies and gentlemen, I now request the President of the Croatian Parliament of Mr Vladimir Seks to address the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36728	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Please, in a few words, in these moments of pain and emptiness, share our feelings and reflections. Saturday night at St. John's Square. Peter in the Vatican, thousands of believers clapped hearing the news of the departure of the Holy Father. It was a applause of joy and sorrow at the same time. They will clap on the one who has achieved the goals set after a long time of effort. It was a applause of joy for the triumphant entry of the Holy Father into God’s house. That Saturday evening, a candle of one great witness of the highest moral authority of today went out. The whole world remained permanently deprived of a man who, with all his being, was inspired to call for the need to build lasting peace to forgive and promote a culture of peace. Untiredly pleading for the tolerance of understanding and dialogue among all peoples, the Holy Father called out with love for the need to promote good works in behalf of the common common good. To help the poor and dissipated to an even more determined fight against hunger and disease. The world has lost a man facing the future of a true fighter for freedom and peace as protectors of man and his rights. The apostles who optimistic faith lived in direct contact with millions of people on all continents. A fighter for the equality of all people regardless of nationality, religious or workingness. During the stormy 20th century, the challenges could be faced only by the strong spiritual authority that John Paul II was. He was deeply and painfully aware of all injustices and indifferences. But at the same time, he had enough feelings and understanding for everything that brings new and modern times. The Republic of Croatia and all its citizens feel genuine and immeasurable gratitude for the Holy Father who in the fateful days of fighting for freedom and international recognition strongly and unequivocally supported the express will of the Croatian people. The Vatican diplomacy under the leadership of Ivan Pope II has been permanently and patiently using the wisdom of centuries of experience and global influence to warn other international factors of the right of the Croatian people to their country. Resisting as soon as possible international recognition in these crucial and breakable days. On January 13, 1992, the Holy See took a historic step ahead of all and two days before the countries of the European Union recognised the Republic of Croatia. Such a self-initiative and autonomous decision of the Holy See on the recognition of the Republic of Croatia is quite unusual and represents a precedent in Vatican diplomacy. The uncontestable fact is that the role of John Paul II in making a decision on Croatia's recognition was crucial and decisive. It was at the same time a clear sign and a strong message to those who had treated suspiciously until then but some openly opposed our natural and fair aspirations to change their previous position and opinion on Croatia. Thank him and we can never forget that. Likewise, we Croats filled with a feeling of gratitude, respect and love for the Holy Father will never forget his three pastoral campaigns to our country. Rare and chosen countries that the Pope during his pontificate hit three times. During the first pastoral and state campaign, the Pope, as a pilgrim of peace, preached peace and reconciliation. Then still burdened with war and with all its consequences on the moral and social social and political agenda, the whole of Croatia embraced it. Then he courageously told all the people in power, the priests, the believers, the young must be the first to forgive. Peace culture does not reject healthy patriotism but keeps it away from nationalist pressures and exclusions. To forgive does not mean to give up the legal means of the rule of law to forgive means to free the heart of a feeling of revenge. John Paul II emphasized. The second papal pilgrimage in October 98th after the peaceful reintegration of Croatia Underwent the constitutional legal order of the country was a sign of further support from the Holy Father to the state sovereignty of Croatia. And in the spirit of continuing his messages of peace of forgiveness, forgiveness and dialogue among the peoples of different languages of culture and religion. The second Pope's campaign to Croatia will be remembered especially after he met with young people when he called them to account. Your country expects you to make a significant contribution in various areas of social life, economy, politics, culture. Its future will be better to the extent that each of you is known to be busy improving yourself. Don't run away from hedonism, consumerism, drugs or alcohol. It was Papa's words. It was a march during which the Pope in Maria Bistrica beat Cardinal Alojzi Stepinc, noting him as the moral orientation of the Croatian people. It was a campaign that strongly apostrophed the call for further democratisation of our society and of moral and spiritual restoration. At Žnjanja in Split, he called on believers in words. "Christians in Croatia today are invited to give a new face to their homeland" in particular by arguing that ethical and moral values that have been undermined by previous totalitarianisms and recent war violence have been restored in society. And the task is urgent because without these values, there is neither real freedom nor true democracy. After the second visit to Croatia, the Holy Father hardened. How the spiritual power of the Croatian people and the rich religious and spiritual heritage it possesses makes Croatia a human being to contribute to the building of an international community in favour of stable peace on the basis of the real equality of mutual respect, effective solidarity in various social areas. For the destination of his jubilee 100th apostolic journey in the 25th year, the Pope appointed Croatia for the third time. The strongest then echoed his strong and open recommendation for Croatia's entry into the large family of European countries, in the European Union, expressed in these words: "Croatia recently submitted a request to become an integral part also in the political and economic respect of the large family of European peoples, I cannot demonstrate the desire to achieve this trend successfully. The rich heritage of Croatia will surely contribute to the established Union either as an administrative and territorial unit or as a cultural and spiritual reality." Resuming this third visit to Croatia, the Pope concluded: "I am convinced that dear Croatian people will now be able to continue building their connection and stability at the beginning of the third millennium to integrate in a coherent way into the community of European peoples." Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is quite certain that Croatia is leaving John Paul II. He lost a great friend and advocate who did not hesitate to provide all the help and give strong support when Croatia and its citizens needed the most. As a man who had the strength to talk publicly and unequivocally about everything and everyone and as a man of full respect and trust, he also directed us through his messages to resolve all the spiritual and moral differences that arose in our society. His support and assistance, his messages and advice are an immeasurable and irreplaceable contribution to today's Croatian state and all its citizens. The Croatian people recognized it, and with all their heart they felt lasting genuine gratitude for John Paul II. In the indelible memory of all Croatian citizens, the precious moral and political assistance that the Holy Father showed to the Croats unreservedly will remain permanently remembered. Dear and dear colleagues and colleagues, I am free to propose to you that the Croatian Parliament, the most representative and legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, be delivered on the basis of Article 117. Rules of Procedure of the Appreciation of the Holy Father John Paul II. I propose the following text of the Charter of Gratitude: "The Croatian Assembly at the meeting on 16 April 2005 expressing respect for Holy Father John Paul II. as the greatest moral authority of today, who during his pontification advocated and promoted dialogue, tolerance and culture of peace between different peoples and cultures around the world who tirelessly called for respect for the rights and dignity of every person and every nation. Voicing the gratitude of the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia for its constant, consistent and immeasurable contribution and support of the Republic of Croatia at the most difficult times of war and of Croatian efforts to join the European peoples' community. Expressing gratitude for the granted selfless friendship that he openly showed towards the country of Croatia and the Croatian people and all its citizens by sharing with them the joy of his personal jubilee three times by visiting our homeland, we representatives of the Croatian people and of all Croatian citizens decided to bring the Charter of Gratitude to St. John Paul II in this way for strong and sincere support of Croatia's political independence in the fateful days of fighting for freedom and international recognition, for faith in the power of the Croatian people and society, in accepting a culture of peace and life and supporting Croatia's entry into the great family of European states. For personal contribution to Croatian spiritual and social development and the development of a culture of peace and forgiveness of the dialogue of tolerance and solidarity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-06-0.u36729	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I share the opinion of all of you that the Parliament has declared by acclaim and applause of the Charter read by Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks. Thank him. Thank you all. I've been setting a half-hour break. Thank you very much.
