ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42244	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I propose that today, during this session, we be contacted by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration about the Slovenian Parliament's latest move yesterday when they declared an epicontinental belt, because this is a very different situation now. And I also report to you that given this fact, the HSP club insists that at this session, our proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the decision of the Republic of Croatia's jurisdiction in the Adriatic Sea, because there is no longer any need for what other clubs have asked us to do since Slovenia has unilaterally entered this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42245	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42246	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A very similar request from the HSS club as well as the HSP club. We believe that it is not a coincidence that on the day that Croatia received the status of negotiator for the European Union, the Slovenian National Assembly declares its epicontinental belt, or protected ecological fishing zone on the same day. We believe that there are some pressures on the Republic of Croatia and the claims on the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the obligation of this House, which has decided to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, is that this move by neighbouring Slovenia should be discussed in detail. We therefore propose that during the day, one of the representatives of the Government address this Parliament, and that you, as President of the Parliament, put that item on the agenda that should end with the position of the Croatian Parliament on this move to violate the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia by neighbouring Slovenia. Of course we could ask for a break right now for a detailed profile of the club on this point. However, we do not want to violate the intended point on the agenda of the Report on the rights of Croatian defenders, so we ask that during the day and the course of this debate you give your testimony to this House on when this point will be put on the agenda, when the debate will be held and whether you have a claim that this House will take its stand in view of the decision it has made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42247	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42248	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, as my predecessors said, the Slovenian Parliament has declared its epicontinental belt, and the agreement, unless I am mistaken at an extended session of the Presidency, was that the Parliament would respond in such a situation to such an absurd Slovenian demand. The government responded with its own note, and this should be welcomed, should have been reacted urgently, but the government depends on this Parliament and must allow Parliament's president to discuss it. Finally, it should also be said that at this point there is no need for trumpets of war, on the contrary, to send a message that Croats and Slovenians are neighbours, that we have huge common interests, but that these interests question such Slovenian decisions. So, protected, as they call it, the ecological and epicontinental belt leads us to conflicts, leads us perhaps to arbitration on most of the border line and I hold that there is something Parliament has to say and clearly, to commit as the most legislative and representative body of Croatian citizens, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I said, I repeat, the government reacted correctly, and then when she pulled the ambassador from Slovenia a month ago, she reacted correctly during yesterday, but I believe that this Parliament has to get a chance to talk about it and commit to the government how it has to behave further.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42249	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I join these demands to discuss yesterday's fact and decisions on the adoption of the law in the Parliament of neighbouring Slovenia, by the fact that last night, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia made two claims on Slovenian television, which, in our court, are the least surprising. He first claimed that their law yesterday in Parliament brought an internal issue to Slovenia, not the subject of international possible disputes. And secondly, that the proposal that arrived from Zagreb during the evening interpreted Croatia as a proposal for possible arbitration of the demarcation of three zones, ecological zones in the Adriatic, so it explained Italian, Croatian and Slovenian. This is the essence, the meaning of the law passed and our position so far and the tolerated relationship in the process of adopting such a law in Slovenia change the view that it would be useful for the Parliament to be familiar with the full content of the proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia to its colleagues in Ljubljana and that they could therefore discuss all possible circumstances afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42251	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament was, in its own time, when Parliament of Slovenia, the National Assembly, passed a law by which parts of Croatian state territory, four settlements, were placed in Croatian state, in Slovenian territory, with its decision to declare it a paper annex, a paper anšlus. The government has also reacted with a note, saying that it is legally worthless and worthless from the point of view of international law and from the point of view of the Croatian move by the Slovenian side, so the adoption of this law that was passed yesterday night. I agree with your proposals that you made, I will immediately contact the Prime Minister to submit certain information on which we will then organise a debate in the Croatian Parliament. He's a friend of Tomiche's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42252	Thank you very much. Excuse me for asking for another word. I suggest, Mr. President, that in the meantime, you call for an extended session of the Bureau to agree on how to conduct a debate, with which topic, so as not to create a truly unnecessary bad atmosphere. I think a meeting of the extended presidency would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42253	Okay, during the day, after I contact the Prime Minister and call that meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, I would like the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, to submit to the Croatian Assembly information, reports and proposals, and the position of the Government regarding the adoption of the law in the Slovenian Parliament on the epicontinental belt and the fishing-environment zone. Mr. President, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42255	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and thank you for the congratulations you have made for this joint success, for starting negotiations with the European Union. I think it's our common merit and our common success. First of all, all Croatian citizens and this encourages us to continue with the necessary efforts to make Croatia a country that can be dealt with in any way with the countries of the European Union and that one day, when the conditions are met, we become a full member. I hope we don't wait long. Before I say a few words about the strongest events with Slovenia, in relations with Slovenia, I would like to say once again that as far as our government is concerned, I believe that this is and perhaps there is an agreement between all of us here that we share with Slovenia, with the country with which we share the nearest, closest relations in the former Yugoslavia, that we will share together tomorrow the closest relations, or the future in the European Union when Croatia enters the European Union. That we need to develop on the principle of really good neighborhoods and friendships. Because there's a lot more that binds us, which brings us closer, which connects us than the few points that I don't underestimate, which are the points of resistance. And that is why I would like to start by saying that in these days, months and weeks, the Slovenian Government has always separated the issue of support to the Croatian European Union from the issues that have been raised in our relations from the Savadria vala to the debts of the Ljubljanska banka because we must not forget that, because our citizens have saved and had money in the Ljubljanska Banka and have the right to get it back. Or some other questions. So there's a lot more to what we have in common than these few open questions that I'm underestimating. And that is why I would like to say here that, first of all, Slovenian government counterparts, Prime Minister Janša and Foreign Minister Rupel, until the end of the day, had separated these two issues by the hand of Rupel in Luxembourg and made it very clear to Croatia that they were supporting the European Union. As I said so, and as no less determined and determined on these political relations I will not be myself when it comes to relations with Slovenia. I want to tell you that on Friday, May 30th, we made a decision at the government meeting. I will give it to the President of the Parliament and to distribute, the Decision on resolving the issue of the demarcation of the state border at sea between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia before the International Judicial Body. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA 1. is, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the issue of the demarcation of the state border at sea between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia before the International Judicial Body. And Article 2, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations is tasked with informing the Slovenian side on the proposal from the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 1 of this Decision and proposing negotiations to the Slovenian side on the issue of bordering at sea between the two countries before the International Judicial Body. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. On the basis of this Decision, the foreign minister wrote a letter yesterday and sent it to Slovenian Minister Rupel. That letter and note were delivered, delivered yesterday afternoon. Therefore, the Slovenian side has an official proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to address the issue of maritime demarcation, because it was the main stumbling block so far, in front of international judicial authorities. I will say very clearly here, we did not write "arbitration" because in consultations with the lawyers we chose which one seems to be much more logical, we chose this formulation to resolve this issue before the International Judicial Authority which issue for both countries to agree on, there must be agreement on the topic of negotiations, the colloquiality given for arbitration and must be found and harmonised which is the international judicial body it will be. This is why we made this decision on Friday, because Slovenia has repeatedly observed and objected that they do not even have an official proposal for Croatia, that Croatia is talking about arbitration and about an international body, but there is no official proposal yet. Here you go, gentlemen, now you've got it. Secondly, in its decision made by the National Assembly yesterday, Slovenia declared that ecological zone, or fishing zone, an epicontinental belt in our grain. And once again, I'm going to say, that decision is completely and ultimately legally void. She's legally nothing. We're with the Italian Republic two months ago, somewhere in early August, so we exchanged notes. At the end of July 7 exchange notes on the determination of the angle between Croatia and Italy, i.e. in determining the delimitation of the epicontinental belt. And here we made very clear the angles, and this, these negotiations were started in the past term, sometime in 2001, 2002, completed this summer and exchanged notes with Italy. So we made it very clear that we had to do this as a follower of the former Yugoslavia. So, find, exactly determine the angles and the latest shooting technology that are much different, much more advanced and much more precise than what they were somewhere during Yugoslavia 30, 40 years ago. And in that sense, this job is done for us. I'll say it very openly. Slovenians found themselves inciting that after our completion of the business with Italy and the demarcation of the continental belt between Croatia and Italy. They thought it was a one-sided act because we defined the angle in the North Adriatic. Yes, we have defined, I will say it very clearly and openly, we have defined the angle between Croatia and Italy, not the distinction between our two countries, but the demarcation of the epicontinental belt of the two countries and the North Adriatic. Why? So because it has always been and belonged in this sense to Croatia as followers of the former Yugoslavia. And that's why the declaration of their "belts" in our section is absolutely legal nothing. We pointed out that on August 25th immediately after the proposal was adopted by the Slovenian government and referred it to the procedure in the State for reasons of it. It is clear to all that the main provisions and especially the arbitrary determination of the southern border, for Slovenia's southern borders, are that so-called. A protected ecological belt caused strong reactions in us, and the government responded immediately. I do not want to speculate on the reasons why the Slovenian leadership made it yesterday, but we can assume that it may be about catching better positions for negotiations that must follow in front of judicial international authorities, i.e. Colloquial criminal arbitration. As far as the epicontinental belt is concerned, and this is now important and I want to stress it, it is a general place of international right to have or not the state belt and therefore cannot declare it. States either have an epicontinental belt or they don't have an epicontinental belt, I can't pronounce it. I think it can be said that it is a kind of culmination of a multi-annual fissure that dates back to the time of Yugoslavia's collapse over the demarcation of the Savudrija vala if, over the years, it has begun to accept some truly unacceptable traits. Once again, I would like to emphasise that there is no place for dramatic and please both the Croatian public and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to really preserve our character because there is no reason to dramaticise anything that did not change with this decision of the Slovenian National Assembly yesterday. We have an epicontinental belt that we have angled our epicontinental belt from Italian and this is legally zero. But when I said that, I want to repeat what I said at the beginning. I think it is our lasting interest to develop versatile partnership relations with neighbouring Slovenia and that this future that will be common in the European Union obliges us to do so but not to give in. So friendship and good neighbourship yes but not to buy this territory, it is a firm and determined position of the Croatian government and I think all of us here too that there is a great consensus about it. In this spirit, the Government of the Republic of Croatia officially proposes to the Slovenian side that the separation at sea between the two countries be taken to the resolution of an international body and initiated dialogue on all aspects of the procedure. We believe that this is the right way, given the 15-year failure of negotiations. We also believe that this is the right way, given that the unresolved issue of the border at sea is the focus of misunderstandings which lead to occasional incidents that make life difficult for people along the border, which we have managed to avoid in collaboration with the Slovenian side so far. I would like to point out once again and thank the Slovenian Prime Minister and the Government who, together with us at Brijuni at a joint session of the Croatian and Slovenian governments, have made it clear that they want and we have signed an agreement on avoidance of incidents, we hope that we will all stick together. And finally, I repeat once again that it is important that at this moment we preserve our credibility, not giving in in terms of the preservation of national interests, thanks to Slovenia, we have the strength and we must have it at the support of the start of the negotiations between Croatia and the European Union, and the fact that they have separated the topic from this, and we are separating that topic and we thank it for the support, as well as for all others who have supported us and provided clear support but also here we say, Croatia will not, I will repeat the syntagma that some with associations for some past time have kindly received. I'll repeat what Croatia is not looking for anyone else, but we won't give up ours either. Not even Comrade Tito was wrong about everything. That's what the Slovenians said. In any case, gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to conclude. Let me get this straight. We, I will ask the President of the Parliament to distribute the decision of the Croatian Government, it is an official decision in which we propose to the Republic of Slovenia to agree together to go before the international judicial body, to define the points of reluctance, we propose the demarcation of the border at sea in Savudrija vala. Probably, we've heard this before this morning, it seems to me, if I'm well informed, that the Slovenian Foreign Minister has said, if the Croats are going to propose a demarcation only at sea we'll suggest the demarcation of some points on the mainland that are resistant to them. We don't mind, we can't go in front of an international judicial procedure or arbitration so it's just about what we want to talk about. If there are resistances on land we are ready to accept because for each decision we need both sides, the consent of both sides. I think it is essential that the Croatian Parliament, I invite you, that the Croatian Parliament give its support to the Government in this decision that we have already made. And we brought it to our attention that the parliamentary parties at the meeting that I had called on the leaders of the parliamentary parties, which was very clear, unanimously declared to support the arbitration procedure, Colloquially because the lawyers warn the proceedings before the international judicial body is much better, and let us remain on this, perhaps at this point we should not talk about another. So please support the government in this. Our decision, with a letter from the minister who can also contribute to the President of the Parliament, was therefore officially adopted by the Slovenian side. I also appeal to the Slovenian side because for 15 years we have been discussing these points, and we cannot agree in a bilateral concept to go ahead with the third but with the obligation of both Parliaments, and this is something we must warn of and what we must agree to, with the obligation of both Parliaments to agree in advance to the results, i.e. on the final word of this judicial institution, otherwise we are inconclusive, regardless of who I was, on the Croatian side, on behalf of the Croatian government, appeal to the Croatian Parliament to support this procedure. If Slovenians still propose some other points in their response to the official foreign minister, I suggest we accept them as soon as possible and prepare this procedure before the international judicial authority. For us to conclude this, this decision by the National Assembly yesterday is legally unworthy and worthless and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament find a way to reach an appropriate conclusion that would refer to this decision of the National Assembly of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u42256	Thank you very much, President. After this information I set a break until 14 pm, and I call upon the immediately extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to take further views on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I would like to inform you that an agreement has been reached at the extended Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, that it is appointed and appointed one five-member working group, which will draw up one text of the motion for a resolution to refer to this decision by the Slovenian National Assembly and then, when we draw it up, will be reassessed by the extended Presidency then the resolution will finally be formed, and only the presidents of the clubs would look back on that agreed text of the resolution during the morning. We're continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44611	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you. I wish you a good morning and I look forward to having a discussion together about a report which we at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, in the Croatian Government, think is objective, that it is comprehensive and that it provides enough information for an objective constructive debate on what the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity did in the last year in the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their family. At the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all Croatian defenders and members of their families for their contribution to this act. The fact is that there were no Croatian defenders, there was no courage, no wisdom, no determination, no response to the call of the first Croatian president, Tudjman, so as not to be able to discuss the start of negotiations for entry into the European Union. And I would certainly like to thank all the defense associations and the co-ordination of associations from the Homeland War that supported yesterday and written through the Government in its efforts, sent a number of speeds and, of course, gave a new incentive to the Croatian government in everything that should be done during this period of negotiations that will be difficult, but which certainly bring a better life to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this report, I'd like to say one piece of information that I trust will help you with your discussion. Namely, this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is based on the audit report on the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry, i.e. family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity for the past year. So for this reporting period, this audit report is unconditional, so almost without any comments. I point out that with pride on behalf of all the employees of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, because that means two things. That we have respected the law in all its provisions, and the other thing is that we have fulfilled all the obligations of the state budget, or that we have respected everything that is our legal obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a report that I believe you carefully studied, gave a review and a clear picture of how the law was implemented, how we managed the money and, in fact, showed that last year we were returning debts from previous periods. I have one more thing to point out that I believe will also help you to discuss this report. We made two budgets last year, so the Ministry was faced as the entire government, of course, with the necessity of making two budgets. For the first three months, we financed ourselves according to the provisional documents, i.e. the provisional budget. We've brought our first budget for 2004. Why am I saying that? Because with our 2004 projects, we could only start the projects of this government after the budget was passed and of course we were bringing under the end of the year budget for 2005. So what did we do in the shortest lines in 2004? We changed the existing, then law of 2001, so the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families. We changed the law for the first time in order to improve psychosocial care for Croatian defenders and members of their families and to correct injustice against those Croatian defenders who were legally sentenced to prison sentences for more than six months, who had lost all their rights under that law. In this way, Croatian defenders were anti-constitutionalally punished, so those who were sentenced to prison sentences. The second amendment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which was related to the so-called so-called Law, was then adopted. a translation procedure which seeks to correct possible injustices committed to those defenders and members of their families who are in the process of translation according to the law of that time are damaged for their rights. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last year reduced the price of purchases of apartments in areas of special state interest, i.e. special state care by 30% and in towns with less than 10 thousand inhabitants. I would like to mention that this decision is here this year I would say improved, so the decision today is that the price of the apartment has been reduced by 30% in areas of special state care and in cities, or places with less than 20,000 inhabitants. The government's decision in last 2004 gave Croatian defenders the opportunity to benefit from protected rents from the use of uninhabited dwellings until they get a final solution for housing loans. I especially want to highlight the problem of Croatian defenders, i.e. Croatian wartime wartime disabled 100% of the first group, who until last year had an outstandingly important issue relating to the carers, i.e. the carers, because in most cases the carers, or nurse, are the wives of the 100% disabled first group. We finally resolved this status in the past year, so they are regulated on health, pension insurance and what is also important, the right to be sick, because unfortunately the nurses themselves are getting sick more and more often. We have also brought a special programme in the past year, a treatment programme, so not only of Croatian military disableds, but also of all other defenders of the treatment program in spas. We signed an agreement, i.e. a six-point contract last year that allowed additional treatment, i.e. health care for Croatian defenders. As regards one-time assistance, I would also like to say something special about this problem, because unfortunately, we face increasing demands from Croatian defenders for one-time assistance every day at the Ministry of Croatian Defence. I will tell you about the comparison of the information that 140 single aid applications were received in 2003, that the total amount granted was slightly more than 335 thousand kuna, and in 2004, 667 applications were considered and the total amount approved was more than a million and a half thousand kuna, i.e. almost a million and 600 thousand kuna. That's all the data for 2004. Of course, as a particularly important moment in the report on what we did last year, I stress the adoption of a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, a law that is supported by all defense associations and which we believe to be a good, fair law and will be implemented in real life. In 2004, ladies and gentlemen, namely pensions and pension rights of Croatian defenders, the 1997 debt was paid back and the translation of pensions under the 2001 law from 1 July to 31 December 2004. Then, as far as housing is concerned, the total number of outstanding demands by Croatian wartime wartime people for residential care has been reduced by almost 13% compared to 2003. I have to say that exactly housing, or the implementation of all the provisions of the laws on housing, is still, perhaps the biggest problem, because, according to our assessment, according to the laws so far, these rights are quite slow to achieve. And that's why in the budget for next year we're proposing some changes, we're proposing model changes. It's not easy to change the model overnight because you know the Department of Construction is building apartments. The Croatian Defence Ministry is taking over these apartments and then according to a special list that is brought in each year, it assigns these apartments. However, according to our assessment, here is from a little less than two years of experience in the ministry's work, going too slowly. The pressure is high, and we in the budget next year will ask for an increase in credit funds, i.e. for credit management. I must also mention the problem we faced last year when we were to take over apartments that were to be assigned to Croatian wartime, military disabled, or victims from the Homeland War. The problem of apartments that are badly built, where there are many shortcomings and with which neither we nor the Ministry of Construction knew what to start with. But it's for one special debate, one special topic. I say, we'll do everything we can to improve this system, to improve it and to solve housing problems, as quickly as possible, speed it up. I'd like to highlight a few more information from this report. Permanent rights increased by 5% in 2004. For family disability pensions, they increased by almost 40%. Rights for free textbooks, i.e. funds for free textbooks increased by around 20%. For the purchase of personal car assets increased by about 32%. I must say that in the last year, we also began to implement the obligation to purchase cars to 100% Croatian wartime disabled first group from the Homeland War. A provision, i.e. an obligation not respected in 2003. You know that the first group's Croatian military disabled have the right every 7 years to drive. It's the legal right that belongs to them, and it certainly must be respected because we know what a car means to a man without hands, without legs, to a man whose car really means life, means contact with other people. So this obligation is also concerning the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in the last year. Of course, with the note that we had to solve the backlogs as well. The expenditure on psychosocial assistance, or the psychosocial programme, has been increased by almost 32%. We have done a great deal of work in all the affairs of exhumation, identification and burial of Croatian defenders. According to official records on the 91st list of Croatian defenders and civilians, so those we are looking for in 91st were at the end of last year a thousand 174 defenders and civilians, and today it is 149 thousand. I note, on the list of those we've been looking for since 1991. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we have done, as shown in this report, I would like to mention that last year we had to amend the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War, because we were warned by the Securities Commission that the existing proposed law could not be implemented. We changed the law, or changed the law of the Croatian Parliament, passed that Law of the Croatian Parliament. In March of last year, the Fund's Management Board was established, the Statute was adopted, the Rules on criteria for the selection of the company, the tender opened and the decision taken on the selection for the asset management company. This was last year, in this year's Eve, I can say that the Fund really worked, that 7% of the shares of HT were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund and that we expect to transfer 7% of the shares of INA to that Fund. Then, from what you would also like to point out, from what you can see and not see in this report, but what I think is important. That we have amended the Regulation on the determination of the percentage of damage to the bodies of Croatian military disabled persons from the Homeland War, which abolished the decision on the mandatory application of the MMPI 2 questionnaire in the process of obtaining the status of Croatian military disabled persons based on the diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. So we met one of the most important requirements of the Association of Croatian defenders treated with post-traumatic stress disorder that they sought for several years, asked that this test of MMPI 2, which, as they interpreted, belittled them from use. I would also like to remind respected MPs and respected MPs that in June of last year, the government adopted a Decision on the simplest way to reprogram the Croatian Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. The payment deadline has been extended for 20 years, including a five-year start, without counting interest. Many Croatian defenders who took these loans said that this way, the noose was removed around their necks because they were hard to bear credit burdens. We'll see, we'll talk to defense associations as far away as possible with these loans. Then, I remind respected MPs and MPs that in November of last year we made a decision on the exceptional acquisition of apartments for the needs of housing care of victims from the Homeland War, which bought 138 apartments from the POS Programme. That was before the end of last year. Then, in particular, I would like to point out that last year the government also adopted a new Programme for the Employment of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and Children of the Dead, Detained and Missing Croatian Defendants. According to this Programme, we have three new measures that have already produced good results in the past year. I am particularly emphasising the Programme of Co-operation, i.e. the Programme of Establishment, i.e. the promotion of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. So, a cooperative that brings together Croatian defenders or children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. In the last year, we encouraged, cash of course, with 150 thousand kunas of 10 such cooperatives. In this year, I have to say with pleasure and joy that the number of interested people is growing from day to day. That we will certainly have contracts with more than 20 cooperatives by the end of this year. They're gathering a large number of cooperatives. For example, in Brinje 280 Croatian defenders who have joined cooperatives who want to work, show that here in 2005 they do not sit at home and wait for all their problems to be solved by someone else. They want to work themselves, live with dignity and dignity from their work and in this sense achieve extraordinary results, join each other, win the market, have a great example of the Duga Resa cooperative and the Rab Defence Cooperative who signed a joint contract, find a market in the hotel complex "Imperial" on Rab, fruit products, vegetables, daily fresh vegetables are being transported during the tourist season, so only the tables of Croatian tourism, and I think that is exactly how Croatian defenders show in what direction Croatia is here today, when we started negotiations to join the European Union should go. I also want ladies and gentlemen to highlight insufficiently known information, such as this information on the employment of Croatian defenders is completely unknown and to the Croatian public perhaps even some of you or some of you, because these good examples are unfortunately not spoken of or dare I say not at all. Why don't I get it or maybe I get it, but I'm not supposed to comment on it for this pay phone. We have launched a special project that also seems very important to me, a project involving 100% of the first group of people with disabilities from the Homeland War and representatives of civil disabled associations. They set up a joint committee to visit all major cities in Croatia and propose to the Ministry of those facilities in certain cities that should be specially adapted for 100% or for disabled people, regardless of whether the disabled are from the Homeland War or unfortunately disabled for some other reasons. We started a major project, we started last year in Vukovar, we move on, we are going to make a decision these days to sign a contract with several new cities in Croatia. And in the last year, ladies and gentlemen, there was a well-founded expert commission that developed a new national programme of psychosocial and medical assistance to victims of the Homeland War, or participants of the Homeland War. According to this new program, we've reorganized this year our so-called. PTSD centers, centres that must be constantly at the service of Croatian defenders and members of their families, to all those who have daily problems, to those who unfortunately still love to say at times this vividly even if nothing is strong enough to paint which and what kind of problem is being done. So, with defenders who still haven't come out of the war in their souls and hearts. They must be at the service of those who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder and are struggling with it daily. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, this is in the shortest report you have in front of you, of course there are a lot of other details in the report that you'll be talking about. In the end, I'd like to say one more fact from my two-year experience at work in this ministry. Care for Croatian defenders and members of their families must not and cannot be just the care of the Croatian Defence Ministry. They must not be referred only to the doors of the Croatian Defence Ministry, the care of Croatian defenders must be the care of everyone, the care of the entire society, the care of every ministry, all ministries, of course the entire government and local administrations, self-government. So, all of us where Croatian defenders live, where their problems are recognised, if we put ourselves in that position if we solve problems where they arise, and then, of course, as a central place concentrated by the Croatian Defence Ministry, I am quite sure that the problems will be less. What I can finally say is that the pressure of these days in this year is much smaller, the problems are being solved, the problem is being resolved, but people who have wanted to find their right for ten years, as they say, to exercise their right, to prove that they have the right to be impatient with understanding, to expect the problem to be solved immediately, sometimes to be resolved from day to day. Here, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, in the end I would just mention, it is not the subject of our debate, that in the last year we started making a register of Croatian defenders and that he is finished, that on the list of Croatian defenders, therefore on this register 487 thousand 407 Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44612	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44613	I thank Mr. President, a number of incorrect allegations made, but most of them I will in my presentation. It is not true that this is the last thing the Vice-President said about the register being over, or it is doubtful that it is over because at a press conference from the government's representatives, it is said that it should be updated. But what I thought was particularly important is to correct the finding that in 2003 no 100% of the disabled 1st group got a personal car from the State or the Ministry. I have here a report for 2003 and it is good sometimes to carry reports with me, so the Ministry of War Victims is in that category in accordance with the provisions of Article 46. The law was assigned to 35 personal cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44614	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I followed the government vice president's report very carefully, and at no point did she say that in 2003, no 100% of the invalids were entitled to a personal car. I contacted the Prime Minister and at 12 o'clock we will interrupt the debate, and the Prime Minister will submit one piece of information on all the events of yesterday's passed Law in the Slovenian Parliament and after his information we will continue to take a position on whether and how to organise a particular debate on this report, so at 12 o'clock we will hear the information of the Prime Minister. Does the chairman of the War Veterans Committee want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Representative of the Committee, Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44615	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 15th session held on 6 July 2005 a report on the implementation of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2004, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. Introductory representative of the rapporteur in the basic drawings presented the report in question concerning the law which ceased to apply on 31 December 2004. A little more than 3.9 billion kuna was spent to enforce the laws prescribed during 2004. The majority of these funds relate to pension disability insurance rights, i.e. 2.73 billion kuna or 70% of total assets. For the implementation of permanent rights of personal and family disability, care and assistance allowances, special allowances were spent 654 million kunas or 16.8% of total funds. 174 million kunas or 4.4% of total assets were spent on housing and 123 million kunas were spent on employment by Croatian defenders or 3.1% of the funds spent. The presence of members of the Homeland War associations did not have any major objections to the report but focused mainly on the problems observed in the implementation of the applicable law. The comments should indicate the non-compliance of the number of children without both parents and the number of beneficiaries of an increased family disability, the absence of data on the number of unemployed children or family members of the dead Croatian defenders and the lack of data on the cumulative exercise of the right to family disability, increased family disability and increased family disability. Not all 100% of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War are still resident and there are also no data on the application of criminal provisions against responsible natural and legal persons for non-compliance with the law. In a brief discussion, the Committee members highlighted the fact that the report on the implementation of a law no longer in force and expressed the following opinions in the debate. All planned housing funds have not been spent knowing that 203 million kuna, 144 million in the position of the Ministry of Protection and the environment and 59 million in the position of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity have been allocated to the state budget. 174 million kunas or 86% of the planned ones have been spent, while several thousand victims are waiting on the resolution list. On the other hand, more resources have been spent for the exercise of certain rights than planned, indicating a lack of sound concept of the state budget. In the exercise of certain rights, a reduction in the number of users was observed and an increase in the funds paid, which is illogical, knowing that the basis for the payments remained unchanged. This applies primarily to the supply, the special allowance and the allowance for the care and assistance of the other person. There are no data on the sanctions applied in the event of non-compliance with the right of persons with the responsibility of both natural and legal persons and, above all, the view of respecting the right of the Championship in employment, the resolution of infrastructure and municipal equipment for residential care, which is in the jurisdiction of the units of local and regional self-government and other rights for which non-compliance with the prescribed sanctions is required. There are no data on the number of administrative disputes led by Croatian defenders in order to exercise their rights. Knowing that many disputes have been settled in favour of Croatian defenders, it is necessary to establish the responsibility of individuals from the state government both the officials and the damages officers and sanction them. The old law did not fulfil the basic intensity, which is savings because its adoption plans to spend around 2.3 billion kuna and during 2004, when it was implemented to a full extent, more than 3.9 billion kuna were spent. After the discussion, the committee unanimously concluded with nine votes: "It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to accept the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2004. "years." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44616	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, DC, LS respected deputy vice-president Đurđa Adlešić in one part and in the other part respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44617	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here, let me, in the beginning, join, on behalf of our club, the card expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister to the defenders on their merits in the creation of Croatia, but also for their merit in the fact that we have become part of the European family. Namely, I will try to single out only some segments of this report since it is about implementing the law that has been amended, on law enforcement by the end of 2004. So, I'm going to single out just some that I think should be specifically warned or it's necessary to monitor exactly those segments of the law's implementation. It is certainly the first issue of housing and employment, the two most important issues in which we have noticed that the least funds have been spent in the realisation of the law. Namely, if 3.9 billion kuna was spent in 2004 and 70% of pension-inhabitation rights are certainly in the eyes of the fact that only 4.4% of the total funds went to housing and that we are still witnessing the fact that 100% defenders have no settled housing issue. Also, for employment, there is only 3.1% of total funding. This should take care of the fact that this is a law relating to the rights of Croatian defenders. If defenders are not disabled or not retired, then these are the two issues where they could possibly feel their right or benefit from the application and application of this law. I will warn that even in the last two mandates, no matter how people in power have changed, we have been warning of one fact that we have failed to resolve so far, which is that the state institutions, in large part of the state institutions, have avoided solving this problem without respecting employment priorities. I will remind you from the late General Bobetko to the many MPs I see here who knew to name even the Croatian Parliament who did not respect that priority. It would be interesting to see how much this fact applies to both local administration and self-government, so the state institutions and I will remind you that in this Croatian Parliament and current Defence Minister Rončević and former ministers, I have warned that often people who had to leave especially from the Ministry of Defence were from the Ministry of the Interior exactly people who were Croatian defenders. At least the administration was touched or those people who weren't on the battlefield. That's the problem that's left unsolved and that's being dragged away by one, the other or the third government. The fact is that last year there were 27 thousand unemployed Croatian defenders, and this year 25 thousand and 500 are certainly recorded, we can show that there is some progress, but we should also see how many people stopped reporting to employment institutions because they just don't trust us anymore. The fact is that the qualification structure is also quite unfavourable and needs to be asked by other ministries, not only of this ministry more attractive employment programmes and, of course, more effectively and spending these funds. It would be interesting to have information about the number of unemployed children of members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders, because even that priority is not often applied by law. I would therefore like to warn you of what is not in this report and what should be sought in the preparation of the following report. In addition to missing data on the number of administrative disputes warned by counterpart Jukic, saying on behalf of the board there is a fact that administrative disputes last two, three or more years. It's for those who have no means for all eternity and it's about an extremely sensitive population. So I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister to tell us, we know that the judiciary is something that we can't put any pressure on but whether there are any methods and whether there are data to really speed up these procedures. Then, something else that is not part of this ministry, which is a lack of record of the award of agricultural land to rent or sell to Croatian defenders. As mayor, I can say that a large number of Croatian defenders actually want their existential living to get rid of their work in agriculture. That is why we support the cooperative models you have spoken of but the allocation and sale of land goes inadmissiblely slowly, so I ask you to ask for an indication and the Ministry of Justice on the duration of the proceedings and on the number of procedures conducted especially by those with state institutions. And also, let's see what can be done to speed up or sell or rent land already. So, for those people who want to live off their work. I also warn again of a large number of PTSD patients, I know that you are implementing some measures and programs, however, there is a need to try to find as fast as possible models. But I will remind you of the amendment that was rejected, which on behalf of the club I submitted to this Croatian Parliament and the Government in the adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which I still hold in mind today that the amendment should be considered. I then requested that the release from the payment of the release and the disabled of the Homeland War with the category of damage to the body of 20%, not just 30%. I'm sorry that you didn't support that amendment at the time, because 20% of the data is basically just PTSD, the ones who often need help, according to the data I have. It is also interesting to know that the Ministry is not in agreement with some of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's assessments relating to the causes of disability and should also know what the ministry is doing. And let me ask you some more questions or some of the problems that HVIDRE representatives from Bjelovar and our county have warned about, in addition to asking about models of speeding up administrative procedures, which I know you can't possibly give a completely accurate answer for a solution unlike retirement. Namely, they got, many of us these solutions, it certainly not only applies to Bjelovar but also to people no matter where they live, where apparently the end of the solution writes payment whenever possible. It would be good to know when it is. And they warn of the abolition of the incentive measures of three, so those who pay their own contributions, so when they are farmers, that money would certainly mean a lot to them, or those people who deal with the crafts, so those who already have something so that they could create more. And those who don't have those resources are the same drop in the sea. And of course they're asking something you'll probably hear today when you match pensions, disability because there's debt. I would ask you, perhaps at the end of the next school year, to consider what measures to be taken, what measures to take, and whether it was indeed a good and quality measure that was adopted on privileged enrolment in high schools and colleges. So let's discuss it here, so that it stops bidting or accusing each other. Let that be our decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44618	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go. And the other part! [[Intruder: Part Two!]] There's another part. Dear Representative Josip Piploic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44619	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister. I will be brief, in fact here we have a word about the report of the old, the implementation of the old law and the new law and its effects we will see in the new report but all of what you have said from the public is still moving, the reduction of tensions in society, the reduction of the trauma of Croatian defenders, although we still have problems, however, a legal framework is given for their resolution and it is necessary that everyone in this process and expertise and good will to solve these problems. However, I would point out here a big problem which despite the good solutions offered in this new law stands and that is a large number of still pending cases standing at the Administrative Court which is somewhere as far as I have information about 50,000 administrative cases and that is one big problem that seems to me and burdens me with the implementation of this law itself, means new law. People still live in the hope that they can solve one of their problems, some have legitimate hopes, others have false grounds, have no basis for what they do and seek. In all of this, however, the administrative court is overcrowded so that it is not actually able to solve this burning problem effectively. It seems to me that we should call the associations and the defenders themselves and all those who are in this process and only the ministry to try to go to a sort of settlement, to get rid of it as soon as possible, that if there are grounds for a settlement not to burden the administrative court and thus the problem is solved as soon as possible. The report shows that the country has allocated 4 billion kunas in the past 2004 term for the rights of defenders and their families and around 15 billion for programmes. I point out this information that, in fact, it would invite associations to a kind of rationality, namely, this is still a large amount of money that stands out for Croatian defenders, for programmes, for their resociation, and for one of their normal inclusions in life, so that it would be good for the programmes offered to the government, based on which these funds are approved, to still be a common problem, to connect them programmeically, that this will make them more effective with the same amount of money. In any case, the defenders fought together, defended the Homeland, and it is normal that it was good to remember together, to socialize and to plan together in fact their return, their inclusion in society, the evaluation of all the values of the Homeland War, means through a joint performance. If they are divided, fragmented, it seems to me that there will be less efficiency. And by the end of it, I don't know if it's a coincidence right now, that we're having a debate today, but in today's press, we have a big title that says defense kids take away their privileges for colleges. I would ask that during this debate, when you are taking the word that the ministry, or you, as vice president, is reading it, because it is now re-inflicting with the defender, with the public. Here you have a few qualifications that just don't stand. I will mention briefly, one distinguished colleague says that this is an eclative example of discrimination, another distinguished colleague says that here is the introduction of one criterion where clientalism is actually implemented to rule out a cult of work, etc., i.e. that the criterion should be to better know more. I think that the moment we passed this Law, when we voted, when we raised our hand for the Law on Croatian Defences and all their rights, that the Croatian Parliament had not even the slightest thought to develop any customerism but to enable Croatian defenders, or children of Croatian defenders, to create a proper chance, to give them a chance if they have the ability and want to work, they will be able to succeed at the university, in this sense I am different from my colleague Gjurdje, who has just pointed out this problem because these children are already disabled because they do not have parents, which are past many, the great traumas of war, which they were refugees, which they have spent much of their childhood and youth on hotels, by various inadequate accommodations. It seems to me that this qualification offends every patriot and Croatian defender himself. Furthermore, I agree that there should be a criterion for entering college, the ability to know better, that's a fact. However, those who say this are sure that those who know more are aware of what they have been able to do and what they have done. Is it possible that the influence of parents and parenting influences may have been that the father, the mother, is someone from the family in a higher position? Maybe there's more money, maybe more influence. Therefore, these things in any case seem to offend Croatian defenders, namely their children and the sacrifice that Croatian defenders gave you. So this initiative to deprive children of Croatian defenders of the benefits for the colleges is returning us to the very beginning where we were 2 years ago when the entire public was unnecessarily frustrated by this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44620	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44621	Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect that fellow Members of Piplovic that only some of us of the opposition are seeking to abolish this provision and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in the privileged entry. I quote the statement by Minister Primorac, quoting: "As long as I am the minister of the criteria for enrolment in educational institutions, it will be excellent and must not be allowed to get the place it belongs." This year, we were obliged to respect the Law on which 15-20% of students were enrolled more than for next year should consider other solutions, says the Minister of Education, adding that there are already announcements from several defence associations who are willing to find a different solution. So it's an incorrect assumption that it's just an exclusive thing for us out of opposition and some of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44622	I didn't hear him mention MP Piploic to the opposition at all. He mentioned some, but did not dominate at all...... A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44623	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Vice President and Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Analyzing the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families during the reporting period from 1 January to 31 December 2004 The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports this report, through which all concerns and concerns for the population of Croatian defenders and members of their families are reflected. During the 2004 report period, as we have already heard two amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War, which significantly changed the status of Croatian defenders and abolished the provisions of the Double Penalty Act and suspended the translation procedures i.e. audits of all Croatian military disabled. Also in the 2004 report period, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families because it had not been implemented before and could not bring any good to Croatian defenders. Also in the reporting period i.e. In particular, on 22 January 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the availability of dwellings owned by the Republic of Croatia intended for the housing of families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War, whose sale price of the apartment was reduced by 30% for apartments in areas of special state care and housing built in settlements less than 10,000 inhabitants. It also amended the Regulation on the determination of the percentage of damage to the bodies of Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War, which abolished the shameful obligation and application of the MMP-2 test in the process of obtaining the status of Croatian wartime war invalids based on the diagnosis of PTSD. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a Decision amending the terms of credit under the credit programmes for the recruitment of developed Croatian military members who have been granted a reprogramme of credit, credit and this extension of the repayment period to 20 years, including a 5-year pay-off without interest. In the reporting period, there were 34 thousand 139 users per month, which was 1% higher than in 2003. In 2004, 11.98% more funds were spent for disabled persons than in 2003 or in figures 110 million 379 thousand and 183 kuna. It has been carefully processed and presented how many users of the special allowance on which Croatian wartime disabled and family members who are not in employment do not receive a pension or salary from the day of the right to professional rehabilitation as well as during it. During the reporting period, there were 1327 Croatian military disableds who were entitled to this measure. Which is 42.73% less than in 2003, resulting in over 1,000 Croatian wartime disabled people in this observed and reporting period being resolved whether they are retired, whether by employment or a permanent working relationship, so that they are no longer in the popular care or not. While the program of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders has extended to three new measures to encourage the development of Croatian defence cooperatives, subsidising two, two percent interest on entrepreneurial loans. Employment has also achieved its effect through these measures so that certain financial support has been granted to entrepreneurs who expand the activity and hire Croatian defenders. Employment measures in 2004 realised 1350 demands and the number of unemployed Croatian defenders decreased by a total of 7% compared to 2003. Also in this report, what is not said, as regards the Croatian Defence Fund and the Regulation adopted by the Fund on the associated shares of shares and how they will be calculated. I would also like to say clearly and unequivocally what the score is and how it is divided, divided into a combat and non-combating sector. The division of the combat and non-combat sectors in the criteria for the award of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families distinguishes defenders who participated in war operations from others. In this way, every day of participation in the Homeland War within the fighting sector, within the command offices and units that participated in the preparation and execution of combat activities, will be multiplied by the corresponding number of points. For a certain period of participation and for participation from 5.8.1990 to 1.5.1991 with one point. From 2.5.1991 to 15.1.1992 with 8 points. From 16.1.992 to 30.4.1995 with one point. From 1.5.1995 to 31.8.1995 with three points. And from 1.9.1995 to 30.6.1996 with one point. This is how it is defined and these are the criteria for the acquisition of rights in the Croatian Defence Fund and will be used to calculate and send solutions to all Croatian defenders of users and those who exercise the right to shares in the Croatian Defence Fund, and within 3 years they will be multiplied through all companies that are in privatisation. On unemployment, I would also say, Croatian defenders, that it is true that the claim which speaks on many occasions in local self-governments did not respect the law and did not give priority to employment to Croatian defenders, but these relations are also changed by inspection services, as well as by judicial authorities and all those who are willing to submit or appeal or anything they gain through complaints and complaints. I must stress that in the observed period, there are already 10 thousand and 566 unemployed Croatian defenders who have already been employed through certain forms. So that this population certainly through all these measures taken and in that old law, and in particular by passing a new law certainly experiences its recognition and dignity, such as on several occasions today, speakers said that they should be congratulated on the successes achieved by today's government at the end of negotiations with Europe and brought us to Europe, but without Croatian defenders there would certainly be no free country of Croatia. I would like to say that when it comes to enrolment in colleges and the legal provision that was passed in the new law, it is certainly a turning point this year, since the generation that defended Croatia had just the children who came across this generation and thus allowed them to register should not be questioned whether they deserved or didn't deserve it. I believe that these children are equal to everyone else in their knowledge, that they should also participate equally in everything, but the reward of the children of those sons who defended them, created the Croatian state can certainly be in enrolment in the university through this form that is now being used. To all those who have a problem with this kind of form, the Croatian state has also bothered them, and probably today they are horning and opposed to all measures that benefit Croatian defenders and members of their families. I hope that the Associations of the Homeland War as relevant and as a criterion for the adoption of legal provisions will certainly raise their voice and condemn the actions of those who wish to reduce the rights of Croatian defenders. The co-operation relating to the reporting period with associations stemming from the Homeland War has changed. I would not only say in a 100 per cent amount, but also much, much more because there was no longer only lip for certain associations, but there was also kuna as much as necessary, and there was no longer a need to list any acts to which individual associations should be loyal to the current authorities, but they discussed together all the details and laws and budgets of the Republic of Croatia on the best decisions and proposals for the government to have criteria and criteria in the follow-up. Therefore, I can argue that surely cooperation with associations from the Homeland War is indescribably better, and what impresses us is that we really do not have to sign the loyalty of the authorities, but that we can openly, clearly and loudly at sessions and co-ordination with them to make decisions that are best for the population of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44624	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44625	In the beginning, just to point out that they are not good debates when criticising individual legal solutions, here we are talking about enrolment of children to colleges is about the level of those who are against the Croatian state. I don't think they are, that's not the level this House should be discussing. I believe no one is against Croatia in this Croatia. But to move on to the following corrections of incorrect allegations. It was said: "The Fund Act has been amended, because the Fund could not bring any good to Croatian defenders under the previous Law.". Absolutely incorrect, because only cosmetic changes were made in the new, or amendments to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. And how well will this law be passed indicates the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to pay 240 million kuna dividends from the Croatian Telecom to Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44626	Thank you very much. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44627	Speaking of the provision of a law relating to privileged enrolment of children, disabled and volunteer colleagues, he said it refers to, quote: "Children who came across in this generation.", this is incorrect allegations, as last year there were children of the 100% disabled of other categories and children of the defenders when she was present with that provision on privileged enrolment. You have, for example, a second or third year of study child who is enrolled normally, and even has to pay for the study which in some way... Mr. President, I'd like you to warn your colleagues not to turn off the microphones when they don't want to listen to what they don't like, and they know it's true. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So these children are unequal to each other and that law has created inequality. If that's what you're all about, I'd like you to advocate that this right spreads to children who are now studying a second, third, fourth year of study, who, unlike just being born a year, two days earlier, and their parents have been at war together, have no right to do so. And secondly,
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44628	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of HSP MPs, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44629	Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. After speaking to my predecessors on behalf of clubs and idyllic atmosphere, I believe that there is still a need for some other aspects of the problem of Croatian defenders. The very fact that in October today, we are talking about the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is in favour of how we do not treat this issue the way we should. There was no reason why we did not discuss this report in April, because the purpose of the report is to look at the situation of the problem, but of course, the possibility of learning lessons in implementation. Obviously, the delay, putting the report on the agenda, is some kind of political tactics, and that's what I object to on behalf of the HSP club. We also have some other reports that don't even come, although the laws say they have to come to the agenda, but about that second time. This report discusses the implementation of the law that has caused major controversy in the Croatian public and has caused a multitude of objections and has been one of the key problems of the mandate of the last government, the Government of Ivica Racan and I am right, since during last government, Croatian defenders were very difficult. When this law was passed in this same assembly, we had a wide and long discussion about how this law is something that will solve the problems of Croatian defenders. The basic definition of the legislator of this law, and we are talking about this report on the fourth year of its implementation, means the end of his life as a regulation, was the basic provision of convincing the Croatian public, the fact that the Croatian state does not have the means to properly finance the rights of Croatian defenders, but that we must introduce savings and remember titles both from work materials and from the proposal and from the media according to the possibilities of the state and it is more or less difficult to find counterarguments, given the financial situation that was in 2001. However, the question arises whether it is possible to pass the law in the Croatian Parliament, that the law is professionally simulated by the necessary funds of 2.3 billion kuna, and that the law ends as this one, we see it from this report, with a cost of 4 billion and more than 4 billion kuna. So is that possible? Obviously it is. But only in Croatia. Let us ask ourselves what would happen if other ministries would come here in such a way with proposals in the Croatian Parliament and if we could pass some other laws in such a way that instead of 2 billion and 300 it would take 4 billion. Let's imagine the situation for the finance minister to come and propose a state budget of 100 billion and at the end of the year it takes 160. So what would come of our country? This is a unique example of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers over the past ten years. In no way did this happen in such a drastic way that the law in the simulation was a complete failure in the proposal. About this, the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders justifiably, about a very bad public climate created against Croatian defenders should not even be spoken of. That's why it's amazing how much money has been spent and the goals have been completely missed. And the audit missed, and there's nothing left from saving. All that remains is the dissatisfaction of Croatian defenders, and debts and court proceedings that continue today. And for that someone should be held accountable. The political responsibility of course lies with the government and the minister who is our colleague today, however, I believe that is not enough. Those people, I'm sure that my colleague Pancic didn't squawk on the computer and calculate the simulation of how much money it takes to implement the law, but some other people who get paid by civil servants prepared his work materials, and apparently that they were wrong in the calculations and I believe that they should be held accountable because such a failure for a billion and more kunas in a few years deserves attention and requires responsibility because the question can happen to us today. As representatives, we cannot be informed and we must trust the government when it comes with the proposal and says that it takes so much and so much resources for certain laws and rights. If someone deliberately or out of ignorance delivers the wrong information to the Croatian Parliament, then we cannot make decisions, legitimate decisions and apparently those who voted in the previous term for this law have made a bad decision which is now shown in this report almost double the amount of money plus court proceedings that are still ongoing and the differences that have not yet been paid. Responsibility in the ranks of the Croatian Defence Ministry of all those persons and people who participated in the process or delusions or mistakes when the law was passed. As far as we know, no one was responding, either disciplinaryly or criminally. Maybe someone's moved to another job, but it looks like the same people are doing the same job today and we're discussing the report here today. What is interesting is said by the minister that housing funds have not been spent but it is only the tip of the icy mountain of the state of the Croatian defenders' housing problem. No funds have been spent because the simple system has been so set up that it is not possible to spend the little funds that have been provided by the state budget. There's a lot of examples. It is more a rule than an exception to unsolicited construction and bad housing for Croatian defenders. There were a number of interventions, and the media talked about it. It's more of a rule that it's bad construction than it isn't, but nothing happened after that either. Someone who has signed the supervision of these facilities has received this high fee and thus allowed the state budget to pay off funds for these construction works that someone is responsible for. According to our knowledge, no one has yet to bear any disciplinary or criminal responsibility for the signing of buildings. Let's think of an example of an apartment without central heating. For months, it's been running around the media and on committees, and in the ministry, people have had to grab their heads on how to solve the problem. How could someone have signed and received an apartment with no central heating and it was in the project? And that case was solved by the ministry by putting the family in a hotel at high cost. He's got such drastic examples. No one was responsible. I would ask the minister at the end of the presentation to say whether someone was responsible and whether they would be responsible for such things as direct damage to the state budget, thus and to the taxpayers at all. And I'd like to say something about something that's not in the report. It is absurd to discuss the report after nine months and after the law is no longer in force. Of course, those who say the climate changed during 2004 are right. The material status of Croatian defenders has not changed so much, the much political climate has changed and it is true that Croatian defenders have made it easier in the past two years. If they don't have what they have on a regular basis, at least they're not called through the media by law and at least someone tells them a nice word. What is not in the report and there should be several problems to be addressed. The first problem is the status of members of the Croatian Defence Council. That's what we've been talking about dozens of times in this House. The deadline's running out. We are today in October, 31.12. of this year, where members of the Croatian Defence Council will receive their material rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The word "legal solution" we heard from the last government and from this government is "it will be resolved by an international agreement". It is hard to believe that it is possible to sign an international agreement in the next 40 days. What will happen to these people and their rights I would like to hear here today because we are talking about Croatian defenders. I would like to say a few things about what is happening to us in the application of the new applicable law because the reports serve to be able to see what is not good in the implementation, what is nagging and what could possibly change. The most drastic example or errors of intentional or unintended in the new law is the question of the status of members of the national protection. It's full of newspapers. It's full of media. Most of the Croatian public are convinced that the number of Croatian defenders has increased rapidly and that members, former members of the national protection, have the status of Croatian defenders. And I can say here by means of documents, arguments and a request from the board that I am head of that no member of the national protection has achieved its right to the status of the Croatian defender, nor will it be achieved under the new law unless someone proposes to amend and supplement the law from the simple fact that we warned about when the law was passed. Kola Kovacevic is here several times reporting for the word, so it has been changed from six to five months because a provision has been voted out saying that the least time period that a member of the national protection should have spent as an armed member is five months. And from all relevant documents of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Government, this period is five days less. So, we passed the law, people were called in the paper, that's being discussed, that's whether they were armed or not. We have passed a law that states that members of national protection are Croatian defenders, but they cannot achieve their right and it is a sad fact. Is it a mistake or is it a intention, we should hear it here today. If someone who has proposed a provision of the law has forgotten or did not know about the situation, the legal situation should bear responsibility for it. Thousands of members of the People's Protection are rightly considered deluded because when they come looking for confirmation they can't get it. I can't get it for the simple reason it's July 30th until December 24th and the law says it has to be five months. This problem should be dealt with urgently either by amending and supplementing the law or by public evidence, which was sought by introducing national protection in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and by disabling any exercise of their status rights. I also suggest that we correct one injustice, an injustice done to all those who have retired under the general rules and before the entry into force of this law, that means by the end of last year because in this year, according to the applicable law, those who go under the general rules have the right to a minimum pension, it is symbolic. However, it means a lot to Croatian defenders who, according to general regulations, have less pensions than guaranteed. However, there are a fine number of Croatian defenders who cannot do so because they have retired before the law applies. And it would also be desirable to correct this injustice both in amendments and in addition to the Law, to overlook the amendment that will allow for both the resolution and the injustices. And finally, two sentences only about the proctor's statement, Mr. Jerolimov, and about the enrollment of Croatian defenders' children, as we warned on the current clock. Sir said, I quote: "The competent institutions will have to, they will have to consider the ethical and legal aspect of the problem," I conclude the quote. For Mr. Dr. Jerolim, the problem is the application of the law passed by this Croatian Parliament. He said that several times at press conferences, adding, of course, that they, the university, will take care of the success of Croatian defenders' children during their studies, just didn't say how they would do it. I'm not surprised at the content or the surprise of the person who said it. What is the Law that we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament for the benefit of the children of Croatian defenders is called a public problem. I'm surprised at those who should have and had to react to such statements, regardless of the so-called autonomy of the university. They are autonomous in their affairs, but cannot be autonomous of the responsibility of the application of Croatian laws. And I therefore call on the Government to show itself about this problem and to take action against such persons who receive salaries from the state budget, and deny the provisions of the Croatian law already call them problems and our institutions, i.e., us, the Croatian Parliament, call us to think ethically, imagine, and the legal aspect of this problem. And it is about the children of those who made it possible for him and us to sit here today and receive salaries from the Croatian State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44630	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44631	Thank you. According to Mr. Jukic, instead of the planned 2.3 billion, 4 billion kunas were spent and asked whether it was a fraud or a mistake. I'm saying, it's not deception or error, it's ignorance of the problem. Because it is necessary to distinguish the budget of the Ministry of Defence, no matter what it is called today, and the report on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence. Because in this and in previous reports, all detached from all ministries, including abandoned budget revenues, have been summed up. And secondly, he says, Croatian defenders are easier now. Well, it's probably easier because of the action plan and full co-operation with The Hague. The demonstrations in Split were probably...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44632	Thank you very much, Mr. Pancic. The second correction, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44633	I'd correct the statement that there's a so-called. The autonomy of the university. No, there is a real, legally prescribed autonomy of the university, and it is precisely because every member of the university, and especially the promoter can comment on the laws. They can do that to citizens, not even the proctor. And he doesn't think that we're infallible, so we can pass laws that can't be changed in some parts. So we're just passing laws that we're amending before these laws come into force, and certainly the academic community has the right and the need to participate in commenting and implementing the laws adopted. That's why there's university autonomy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44634	HNS-PGS representative club. Honorable representatives of Srecko Ferenčak and in the second part of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44635	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Before the start of any debate on this Report and the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2004 I would like to point out that such and similar reports should be found in the Croatian Assembly at the beginning of the year, not in the last quarter. Because I wonder what it makes sense to discuss the implementation of a law for 2004 when we will be discussing the proposal for a national budget for 2006 very soon in this same House. This makes it clear that the ministry's disorganisedness and impunity took six months to write a report like this. But given the knowledge of the interior organisation of the ministry, it is difficult and likely to expect a faster response. We are sure from the daily newspaper that we are familiar with the staff changes within the ministry, and today the minister is likely to have the 3rd position of officials around him. It is clear from this fact that, by dealing with itself and with staffing within the ministry, there has been no time for all the strong promises made to defenders, mothers, pensioners and all the other social groups that the ministry should worry about. And that's why it's been met so little for the real life needs of the defender. But here's the report, which is what it is, so let me tell you the same thing on behalf of the HNS and PGS Club. In the 2004 budget, the ministry received 5.6 billion kuna, and out of that the defence of 3.4 billion. For law enforcement, 3.9 billion kuna was spent. It is not small money for the State budget and it is important how and how this money is spent. It is precisely because of the dignity of the defenders and their families that some things need to be pointed out. We've recently been informed that the Defense Registry was finally built, only a question of whom it will serve and for what purposes. In doing so, it is extremely important to note that it is necessary to make such a single register, but we are aware, and this House has been said on several occasions, that the real systematic review of the actual number of defenders has never been made. In fact, it's starting to work, but the arrival of this government has simply been interrupted. Why? I guess that's what those who made that decision know. In the new list of defenders, we are informed in the media, and here we are today from Madam Secretary, almost 500 thousand people. Fellow representatives, it is almost one half of the working population of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear to everyone that this figure is not real and real, and it is certain that there are people on that list who do not belong there. Adequate and useful Defence Register will not only prove on paper who really defended this country but one who will give every name and name on that list dignity, dignity and pride, and on that basis the rights earned. I repeat, earned rights should be a priority in the ministry's work. In this report, great attention is paid to cooperation with associations of Homeland War. A large part of the financial cake available to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity was spent on this shop. We look forward to developing quality programs in this area, but we are not convinced that all these costs must be such. The Report maker praises that during the period covered by the Report there are fewer non-intentional costs than before, I suppose, wanting to let everyone know that they are acting more discreetly than those before them. It's nice to hear that taxpayers' money has due attention in good master's manner, but this report can't really convince us that it is. Co-operation with associations cost 15 and a half billion kuna. ... Millions, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. A part of which was financed by various events, seminars, stands, programs, magazines, newspapers and meetings of defenders. However, the report does not show that large amounts of money are spent on one of these same purposes from other ministries. It kind of looks like a "cruise and games" wing to which Roman emperors bought their pleps so they wouldn't think about what they really needed. The lords' defenders don't need it, and they don't ask for mercy, but they seek their merits. And the defenders need employment first, they need jobs. 3% of the total budget is all spent on employment. They need apartments, only 4% spent on the total budget for that purpose. And these defenders need to be resociated so that they can continue to benefit from the development period of this country that they have defended and defended. I am sure that it is for all of us and that we agree that future money should be directed to these priority issues of the defender, not to the newspapers and magazines. The ineffective and completely missed policy of publishing the telephones and the minister's cell phone, which are completely deaf to calls from the defence population. In this example, policy moves are clearly reflected in relation to real concern for defenders. And the most important thing, once again, I would like to warn this report on the one hand, is the gallantly spending money on various events, and on the other hand, the minimal effort to employ defenders and members of their families. And what is one of the most important prerequisites for a man's life. It's the only real way to prevent all those sad fates of defenders and members of their families that, unfortunately, we've read too often and informed in the papers lately. The report wants to impress the public with numbers and incentive measures, but as soon as we scratch a little beneath that surface, the real picture is different. Even the Ministry does not respect the provisions of the Law that he wrote, which shows how few defenders or members of their families have been employed during the government at least in simple office affairs and how much the ministry has dealt with the control of legal provisions on the priority in the recruitment of defenders. The HNS PGS Club believes that this must create clear criteria and a transparent system that will effectively assist defenders and function regardless of the current political power, and not that, as this is the case, the Ministry deals with caritative services, the sharing of charity or the political counting of votes. Let me give you an example from this report that clearly shows what I'm talking about. For the association that is necessary and necessary in our opinion, it is an association treated by PTSD, during 2004, the Ministry spent 20 thousand kunas for its activity, 10 thousand kunas for sports activities and 10 thousand kunas for the rehabilitation of these people, while for various stands here are the stands of unknown topics spent 70 thousand kunas, the football club spends 10,000 kunas on hunting alliances of 50,000 kunas, and gentlemen where there are criteria, where there is a system, where there is transparency of work. Where there's real concern for defenders and their life needs. In any case, no part of the report cannot be found out by which criteria and principles the Secretary of Resort shall award that money. The club of HNS PGS representatives considers that the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1. 1 to 31. 12. In 2004, in this form it is not acceptable because it is not transparent and that only one important fact can be seen from its content that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is not doing its job properly and does not properly care about the real needs of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44636	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44637	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I thought this speech was slowly disappearing from the pay phone, Article 214. I agree that we can all dispute the report, we can also agree with the report, we should criticise it if we want it to be better, that the report is better and that the law is implemented properly. But connecting the minister's phone number, and the cell phone number to the report, it seems to me, indeed, that the measure has been exaggerated. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44638	Thank you very much. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about attitudes I can't assess but not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44639	Mr. President, I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who claimed that the incorrect figure in the register of Croatian defenders, i.e. If there was anything and everything that you were probably in the unit, they'd know that the units and the participation in the Homeland War were confirmed by the Department of Defense, or the Department of Defense or the police department of their Ministry. And therefore, the certificates are relevant, harmonised that they do not match, and so is the register of Croatian defenders which speaks of credible documentation from these two ministries plus those who have exercised the right under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences as a national protection that was over 5 months old. Those are the exact facts, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44640	Thank you. The second correction, the respected representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44641	Thank you, Mr. President. In his exposé, counterpart Ferenčak mentioned the following unsustainableness and disorganization of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, which is absolutely not true. During 2004 and this year, the Ministry showed a high degree of organisation and urgency by bringing first order the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in 2004 and showed great concern when it comes to defenders. On the other hand, what's most important is that last year the Ministry started a dialogue with defense associations, what was missing from the former government that was I would say in a permanent conflict with defense associations and with defenders when it comes to the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44642	Thank you. Third Amendment of Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Ferenčak has made a number of incorrect allegations, a series of insults to the Ministry and says that the Ministry deals with caritative services and not with the employment of Croatian defenders, so I am correcting that part of the allegations, where on 4 August 2004, the Croatian Government reached a conclusion on the adoption of the professional training and employment programme of Croatian defenders, which was extended by three new measures, which is the incentive of Croatian defenders' association, was also strengthened by employment measures, the programme has six measures, in 2004, 1350 requirements were realised, and also in 2004, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders decreased by 7% compared to 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44644	Thank you. And the fourth correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44645	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this debate by fellow Ferencak, should be fully corrected, but it is incorrect indeed what my colleague Byte said, that this is not the Ministry's concern with the employment of Croatian defenders. This ministry has brought six measures to hire Croatian defenders, a colleague mentioned one of the important ones as well as the minister in the debate. And even 10 thousand 566, as visible from the Croatian defenders' report, were employed during 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44646	And the fifth correction by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Ferenchuck, allow me to correct you. You have finally completed your exposure to claims that the Ministry is not worried, that it is not doing its job, it is completely incorrect, it is in itself understandable that it is incorrect. However, this report and life also confirm that this is incorrect, that much has been done and that much has been done. But it is true that the Croatian Defence Ministry cannot be the only address that will address all issues of Croatian defenders. But the entire Croatian society needs to take over this difficult, large and responsible task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44648	Thank you. At 11 and 15, it is time for individual debates on this topic for 10 minutes. And now there's still on behalf of the HNS PGS Club, six and a half minutes of respected Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44649	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary, Your Honor. In all possible pre-election movements, in all possible tours of the field, we always have our mouths full of defenses. I would focus on this report on this particular concern and I would focus on two of the most important elements, the element of housing and employment care. So far from saying the Ministry didn't do anything. The ministry takes care of the numbers, so 4.4% was spent on the housing of the victims of the homeland war, so 174 million went to that position, or not even spent everything planned but spent 86% of the planned funds for 2004. As far as employment is concerned, the situation is even worse because 3.3% of the total budget was spent there, i.e. 123 million was spent. So the two most important things, the elemental, existential things for the defenders are just shown concern in these numbers 3, 3 and 4.4. I'm not saying it's nothing, it's just as much as the numbers show. However, what I would say in this report, what bothers me, and I will focus only on housing care, I would say that it is insufficient to display only the total number of requests received, not to indicate how many total victims of the Homeland War were taken care of by 31 December 2004 by the assignment of an apartment or a residential loan. Since the report shows only the number of taken care of in 2004 at the very least, it would be good to have comparative data from 2003, 2002, and years earlier. This would show the ministry's end line and engagement on this very sensitive issue. Nowhere can you see how many contracts were contracted in 2004 with the construction of buildings of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, how many buildings started, and how many locations were obtained by the local self-government unit. I agree with our colleagues who have said here that caring for the defenders can not only be the concern of the ministry but that it is the concern of our entire society, but let the previous government also care about the entire society and not just the care of the ministry. So that doesn't change anything. I also find it important to point out that the report should show how many units of local self-government have so far failed to secure construction land and municipal equipment, and by law this is an obligation and the reasons why they are not, as the Ministry of Civil Engineering, or the Ministry of Defence, in the event of the failure to provide construction land and that municipal equipment. In the assignment of the site for organised construction, units of local self-government are obliged to provide a equipped and prepared building particle for the reason that we know from practice that land-booking particles were awarded for which the return was requested from former owners, so they were not property-rightly clean, so no parcel was made or carried out, so there was no access route, so no waterway was resolved, sewerage, no electricity was provided, often it was necessary to build a quiet trafostation, that they were not in the building zone and the particles that the units of local self-government were assigned, for which no spatial plans were made, they were not made general, detailed plans or urban plans based on which could be issued building permits, and then we waited for several years for the adoption of the planning documentation, so for example in these particles they were passing various highways, waterways, greenhouses, collectors, gas collectors, gas. Often, such particles that were allocated for organised construction were burdened with various planning infrastructures, etc. That's where they went. All of this, all of these particles offered by the local self-government unit to the ministry, often just throwing sand into the eyes and obsessing about the real desire to actually solve the housing of the victims. ... Yes, ma'am, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can tell from experience that often local self-government units have been trying to solve their urban and municipal problems, and as an example, I will remind you of the building in Klanjec and the building in Ploča, which started in 98 and 99, are not yet completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44650	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44651	I am correcting the incorrect allegations that the position of the former and current government was to care for the Croatian defenders of the care of everyone, it may be on paper, but if you look at the report it seems a little who cares.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44652	The second correction, a respected representative and vice president Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44653	The Honorable representative has presented a number of incorrect allegations, and here I will mention only one. It is not true that there are no comparative data regarding the care, housing care of the defenders if it is known that the number of outstanding housing requirements for Croatian military disableds has been reduced by 12.48%. So the number of pending requests has been reduced, which means it's been done more than last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44654	And the third correction, honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44655	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Chichin-Shain where she claimed that the concern of the entire society was also a concern in the previous government. It is quite incorrect and your concern in the previous hairs was how to remove the rights of Croatian defenders, how to repudiate them and how to call them and please do not worry about them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44656	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44657	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I have to answer in order to react on behalf of the government and, of course, to reject the unargumented allegations of the HNS-PGS club that were presented earlier. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the HNS-PGS Club, I remind you that we are discussing the report on the implementation of the law that was passed at the time you had power, the law that was passed in 2001, the law that significantly reduced the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the law that reduced those rights in the material part and up to 40% and the declaration of different categories to false, suspicious, etc. etc. I won't talk. I've been staying away from it, I've been very far away from any politicizing in my opening speech, but now I've got some data to make. You insist on your debate on housing and employment of Croatian defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the HNS-PGS Club that you didn't realize all the projects when you had the chance, when you were in power, that none of the projects Mrs. Chichin-Shain, you left us with no housing project that simplistic. I've only mentioned briefly the problems we've faced, and now I'm going to say the details. Many buildings that were really started back in '98, mention building 98. Why didn't Mrs. Chichin-Shain finish them, were they in your jurisdiction? You were in charge of building defense apartments back then. I'm sorry I don't have a whole cup like this right now, but next time I'll bring the photos and apartments you left us to hand them over to the Croatian defenders and members of their families. The flats of ladies and gentlemen representatives, where there are no half-plates, in which sinks, in which there are no half-parquets, apartments in which for no explanation reasons raise a pillar in the middle of the living room. Apartments in which badly executed, poorly connected installations, leaky apartments, apartments in buildings, for example, in Senj, where the roof was carried away during a large storm, believe it or not. These apartments were inherited and were now to be handed over keys to Croatian defenders, i.e. Croatian wartime disabled, widows, mothers, fathers or children killed. Don't call us, don't let this whole big problem really end up being broken down so let's see who it is, whose companies built these apartments and why they're so badly built, who's going to be held accountable. ... Yeah, I agree, someone should answer for that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for employment, you had a chance. You had a chance to hire Croatian defenders, you had a chance to start new projects. We launched three new measures last year. I said very clearly what the results of those three new measures have given. Mr. Ferencak says that this government, or the ministry, or I, at the head of the ministry, am only in favour of "cruche and games", as you say, confronting all those projects that go to co-operation with the Associations of Homeland War but, of course, the entire work of the ministry. I remind you, Mr. Ferenchek, that the funds given to associations for their programs, are exactly what they were at the time you were participating in the government, absolutely the same. However, those funds are allocated on the basis of clear criteria to be met. And you can, of course, check that out in the state audit report for the ministry's work in 2004. Therefore, we are really indignant to throw your lunches at the expense of the ministry and at the expense of all the people working on this ministry. As far as your questions are concerned, I would like to ask the question of how many conversations with Croatian defenders have you personally done about it? As for "courage and games" and "tossing dust in the eyes", a few more details with a note, of course, that we are talking about the Law, the implementation of the 2001 Law, which we changed twice last year to be as bearable for Croatian defenders and members of their families. But when it comes to bread and games, Mr. Ferencak, I remind you that the new government has introduced into the new law the lowest, or protected pensions, that Croatian defenders for the first time when they meet the conditions for retirement, when the year 65, and 60, can retire, can get the first time Mr. Ferencak 45% of the average salary that will naturally grow. For the first time, we made sure that this Law really turned to the Croatian defenders who defended Croatia. When you talk about the dust I throw or my ministry or the whole government in the eye, I remind you that the pension of Croatian defenders from 1 January of this year has been achieved according to the general regulation is increasing by 10 or 30%, respectively. To introduce that minimum pension status, then, to extend the customs tax relief for the import of a private car to other groups of the most difficult people with disabilities. That we have made significant shifts in the care of the children of the dead Croatian defenders, the allowance for them without censorship, the possibility of enrolment, that we have also achieved the harmonisation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Family Law, that children of the dead Croatian defenders, after completing their education, have the right to another year of retirement, or so on until they are employed, etc., etc. It's all throwing dust in your eyes. We also have a car purchase program for the most disabled people in the Homeland War, we have only four houses left by the end of the year, or an apartment for 100% disabled first group, and then we will be able to say that they are completely taken care of. I won't talk about other provisions of the law, other shifts, lowering the cost of the apartment that I spoke about at the beginning of 30%, and so could you, Mr. Ferencak, in a lot of care for the housing of Croatian defenders. You could have, your government could have made that decision and it would certainly have been well accepted among Croatian defenders. As for the register, of course you ask what the register will serve, the sad question is what it will do and who it will serve. It will serve Croatian defenders, it will serve to finally know the number resulting from the conclusion, i.e. the convergence of registers at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, but it will serve to ensure that all those who are in this register can participate in the Croatian Defence Fund established by this Government, which is one of the strongest funds in Croatia, which is already 7% of the shares of HT, in which soon there will be 7% of the shares of INE, Mr Ferenčak. So much for the caritative action of our ministry. And as for your caritative action, we had a chance to see how it ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44658	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44659	Thank you very much, Mr. President, namely, it is systematically broken in this manner of communication between the minister and us, Article 213. Rules of Procedure. She calls the MPs on why they didn't do something about what her job was and how much they did it. Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the duty of a parliamentary representative is not to answer the phone, for this job you receive your salary, however, as the phone is organised and what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44660	Comrade Pacek, this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a challenge to the minister's claims. Thank you very much. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44661	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking of the 2001 Law, it's been said, the law is...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44662	Mrs. Lalic, please stop throwing it at me! Don't throw it out of my bench, if you have any objections, please choose to stand up, make an observation and don't throw it out of my bench. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44663	I call for privacy, there's no reason to argue. Speaking of the 2001 Law, it is the law that significantly reduced rights. Absolutely incorrect! The 2001 laws are only in line with the financial allocations that the HDZ government has set out for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences. In particular, the legal obligation of 97 was to pay off the invalidity base of 160%, and it was paid off in 115, and it was incorporated into that 2001 Law. And the new law of 2005 is based on the largest part of the 2001 Law, and in our time to add Croatian defenders did not have to pay.../The speaker went off and re-enabled./... Doctors, so they did not have to pay administrative fees on prescriptions and instructions and today they must pay them.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44664	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44665	Your Honor, Madam Minister, that our government has done something not amnesting this government to do it in the past two years. That's under 1. And below 2! As for who's left to whom, I can tell you what was left at the Ministry of Public Works then from the facilities. So, all those facilities and all those projects and all those photos you're talking about are projects that were concluded in the 98th and 99th years at the time of your HDZ government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44666	Third Amendment Honored Representative Happy Ferencach.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44667	I will correct the statement of Madam Minister, in which she claims I'm against cooperation with the associations, that's what you said. I'm saying I'm looking forward to developing quality programs in this area. I also said that from your report, Madam Minister, don't be mad at me I was just reading your report, says: review of... Support to associations for selected programmes in 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says here that you gave the PTSD Association 20 thousand kuna and various events sports, hunting alliance and football club, tribune, 70 thousand kuna. I've come to the conclusion that it's not systematic, but I'm giving you 10,000 kunas, you've got to build a system, Madam Minister. That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44668	That's a comment! That's my friend Ferenchak's comment!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44669	Yeah, well, that's what I want to teach the lady and she won't listen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44670	Comrade Kovačević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44671	Dear Mr. President, I will give up correcting the incorrect allegations and ask you to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders and members of their families and to Article 210. Warn the Rules of Procedure and draw attention to all the MPs who will discuss this subject to stick to reports and not bring up defenders now to share with each other and discuss what happened before: chicken or egg? The defenders aren't interested. I got 15 messages. They're not interested in the debate. About what happened. [[Intruder: Give your colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44672	Correction of an incorrect allegation. I'm not, I'm not arbitration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44673	No, no. But I beg you, Article 210. Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, if this continues, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44674	Here's a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44675	I said I'm giving up. The first thing I did was raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Correction...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44676	Any injuries to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44677	This is all that's been going on. Read an article
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44678	What's going on is a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44679	Mr. President, slowly. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44680	Who am I going to judge?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44681	He's been arguing since... A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44682	For their opinions?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44683	Report since 2004. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44684	Yeah, report from, for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44685	And then article 210 tells you, so. I ask you on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, on behalf of the defender who sends me and Vlad Jukic text messages. Yes, warn us all fellow MPs to stick to the subject, to see how and how we do what we need to do and not to conduct a bad debate. You understand? It's a request.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44686	Where am I going to estimate that, uh, the MPs are having a bad debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44687	So here's what I get...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44688	I'm the only one who should.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44689	You want me to show you a message?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44690	As Parliament President, I should warn the MPs That you're having a bad debate. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Then I'd go very nicely from you to warn you or someone else to conduct an insufferable debate. [[Intruder: Well no, but]] Go to the correction of the incorrect quote, please go. [[Intruder: So stick to the topic then.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44691	I gave up. I'm asking, I'm appealing to discuss what the defenders are interested in, and not to discuss what was first a chicken or an egg?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44692	Thank you very much. You ask me to warn the MPs, and I value whether the waters are barren or unruly. Is there anyone else out there? There's no one else, is there? And club, club, club That's why I'm asking you nicely, so follow me a little bit. [[Intruder: I've had a correction]] The correction of the incorrect quote still has a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44693	Well, I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of the Deputy Prime Minister that this government has founded the Croatian Defence Fund. The Croatian Defence Fund was founded by the 2003 Law, which was proposed by SDP representative Pavle Kalinic in this House. The Croatian government only implemented what the Croatian Parliament established, which is to form the Croatian Defence Fund. What is the problem is that Croatian defenders have not yet received a dividend from the Fund because it is now widely interpreted as being from someone there momentarily. And I'm asking the President of the Parliament to warn his colleague Kovacevic that he is not allowed to have his cell phone on in this hall, so he won't be texted then, will he?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44694	First of all, colleague Mršić, you are correcting something that the minister did not say at all. Because I'm following it closely, and by that, my fellow Sobol knows. And as for cell phones, MPs don't follow the Secretary of Parliament's instructions not to use cell phones in the assembly, so it's likely that a single device will be installed that will prevent everyone from making phone calls and using cell phones. Yeah, they're getting messages. [[I didn't make a phone call.]] Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44695	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I mean, if we're right about ourselves, ourselves, ourselves, then we'll probably admit that no country when defenders or disabled men of war do not have a legislative system like the Republic of Croatia. I speak clearly in that positive sense. Once again: no country of its fighters means defenders, war invalids arising from the Homeland War do not treat as treated by the same Republic of Croatia. Of course, that's true of the Homeland War fighters. Not for NOR fighters. To them, it is a shame that even disabled rights have been abolished, but Croatia has a gentlemen's legislative system...... / Insect: Pardon my colleague, please what kind of... That he can boast of.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44696	Comrade Cain, stop for a moment, Comrade Cain. Please, what's that laugh over there? ... I warn you to behave with dignity. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are discussing a serious issue, an important topic that is not subject to any laughter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44697	But I would like to say that Croatia has, once again, the legislative system, which is this Law, this report, which we are discussing that is unlikely to be commended by any country in the world or far richer than the Republic of Croatia. And clearly, since we have introduced this system, these provisions have been voted upon, it is clear that we will have to apply these standards in the future. When they're disabled, I'd give anything to them. No rights for disabled people can be reduced, no rights can be limited to disabled persons, although it has always been clear, there will be those who may have misused those opportunities, but among all others who participated in the Homeland War, which was our civic obligation I don't think should be dating any special benefits, and certainly the biggest one introduced is true during the term of office of Jadranka Kosor, this is the right to retire of 45% of the average salary. But about that later. Some rights under these laws that are in effect or even a report, I will dare say it this way, are even bizarre. For example, I didn’t know, I was promoted when the law was passed that, for example, the Law also knows the right to exempt from paying compensation for the re-use of agricultural land. Where's that? Now it's clear it has to stay that way, but let's be honest. Where's that? To build a house, and on the other hand, you are freed from land repurposes or as customs duties are also known to import cars. I'm not going to say that it's shopping, tying up to a certain political option of this or that category of citizens. But once again, I'm going to say that these are great rights. What about the right to free stock? We'll all use those rights, that's clear. Of course we will. But that's not what you do either. Now what happens? It's like a coupon privatisation. The exiles got the shares, they sold them to our famous PIFs from that Count Eltz to Radiir Cacic, and those people became owners of all of Croatia overnight, who are no less even suing the state now that they owe them 2 billion kuna because they didn't get the shares they imagined. Clearly, it is better to give the defenders of the stock than to the tycoons, although logic is clear. It's securities. They're being traded and eventually they'll be taken over again by the tycoons. But now that we have these provisions, when we have this fund clearly to be applied and respected, and we can only tell the defenders who are going to get shares of HT and INA that these are the most profitable Croatian companies that do so together seem to me 3 and a half billion kunas and not to sell those shares clearly but to try to use that dividend. But we can also ask ourselves why dividends, those 260 million kunas spoken of by Mr Pancic of HT are not already divided into Croatian defenders? Which clearly they have a right to. Well, good. It's politics now. Privatisation policy more, not even help the defenders, but that I am deciding and holding that going to the defense of Croatia was a civil obligation for every Croatian citizen. Yeah, if he's not disabled, he doesn't need any special rights. So, the disabled, everything, not the others. To speak this way for this speaker, I am also aware that this is extremely unpopular, that it may be politically harmful, but that there is no confusion, for the fourth time, the fifth time, the disabled all, the others. But it's clear that the state has to take care of those others, too, if others get in your way. Okay, the cars are out of that release, but page 70 says that 107 million kunas are free of customs. I'm saying 50% is abused, one imports, the other uses, we all know these cases. Mirovina, there are great rights here and I say it is the merit of Minister Kosor, hardly anywhere else it would appear, it has been introduced and it should be supported today. The state's obligations will only arise, but we have decided and so far it is fulfilled, but it is reported that there is one problem Mr. Jukic was talking about, and that is that those who receive pensions and did not retire after 1.1.2005 receive significantly less pensions than those that were in 1.1.2005. For me, Lemezan Avdo, born in 50, from Slavonski Bord, I will hand it over to the minister who points to such a problem and that is actually a problem, I don't know, I wouldn't even say the wrong intention of the legislator, but probably bureaucratic logic and should correct the injustice against small people. She says, "I'm not looking for anything, just what belongs to me. I'm receiving a pension of a thousand and three hundred and three hundred and thirty-three thousand and forty-five limes."and it is reported that these people should have a minimum pension of 4000 200 times 45, that's about a thousand 800 kuna. Clearly, when we come to such individual cases, then it is evident that with all the good intentions of the legislator, as I have said, this bureaucratic logic can be cruel and wrongful for these small people. I won't say that, and that would be wrong if someone said that people in the ministry, one or the other, weren't sensitive. And to be honest, in some small mistakes, in the assessment of disability, we all have in mind that Mr. Dark Bestek case, it was simply not necessary to enter. If someone lost their leg, if someone lost their hand, it doesn't matter now 100 or 90%, 90% disabled, or 80% disabled. Clearly, one with this degree of disability can feel suspended, make sure that the system does not fall apart. But then again, it should be in all that measure. But that problem exists. So, generally this law wanted me to admit it to myself or not, it's beyond Croatian opportunities, but there are individual injustices, and there are people in the ministry that are clearly correcting you, and MPs, dear God, to warn them. For example, in one of the last Ferals, I read the case of Mira Buzdovici, who was amputated by both legs, who spent 5 years in the war. True, there is the opinion of the second-degree commission that the disease MB-burger did not result from the Homeland War or the wounded in that war. He was wounded in the war, so he has no right to the status of a military disabled. Now, whether that diagnosis is correct or not, someone needs to determine that again. I'm not the one who can talk about it, but I would like to say that there are some small cases where bureaucracy under quotes trains strictness and compromises a good law, a law above Croatian possibilities, a fair law according to that population. Because let's not finally forget that the funds for the application of this program are respectable, 3.9 billion kuna. What the funds should certainly be allocated to is the problem of self-employment, it can't be any benefit. Croatia has these programmes, they were introduced by Mr. Pecek, Croatian counties have these programmes, cities have these incentive funds, and here on page 67 says employers who employ the listed group of unemployed persons receive an incentive of 70& amounts of gross earnings in the first year and 50% of gross earnings in the second year of work. After a 24-month co-financed period, the employer may use an additional incentive of a thousand euros, etc., etc. So he can't, and for that he's exposed, he's singled out 91.7 million kunas. These are not small funds for the budgetary opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. I want to believe that this right will not be abolished, such as 4.8, it is that black day for "Liburnia", this year the government made a decision to stop stimulating employers who hired unemployed from the Croatian Employment Service and then had the right to be released from those first year of contributions to pension, i.e. health...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44698	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44699	...security. It should be returned to them and that must have been bad. So I want to believe that something like this will not happen now that the Croatian defenders are in the process. What are the self-employment measures that must again be combined with customs exemption, from land re-use, etc. There's a whole series here on page 69, of, I don't know, co-financing 90% of the training costs in that, you know, employer, and I'm not reading it right now, but there's a whole series of these measures. So we can't say that nothing is done. Is that the fact is that, on this basis, all the funds provided in the budget are not used for these purposes, and we believe that this should have been done simply. So, we have to be objective, admit that in this area, when the implementation of this law is in turn, enormous energy is invested by both the people in the executive and current minister, and I guess, I don't, but I'm also sure former Minister Pancic etc.. But one moment is also interesting. The defender's got 489 thousand 407, amazing, but that's the way it is. However, those 7,000 members of the armed national protection squad turned out, they did not go to war, but they raided military stations, which by some logic should give them the status of defenders. And why am I saying that? Because secretaries, cleaning women, etc. The people's defense offices have this status, and these people don't have it, and it's not fair for gentlemen. On the other hand, no amount for a disabled person is too much to say that 220 people with disabilities of the Homeland War died in 2004 alone. 12 of them committed suicide in 2004, and two of them were under 35 years old. Which means they've been out of the war for over 20 years. Still a particular problem are missing persons, they're a thousand 174, that's a huge problem. Unfortunately, we can assume their fate, but everything needs to be done that parents at least the next day know where to light a candle. This may have taken the utmost care to remove the Wall of Pain in Zagreb, although it is likely that the monument of Djamonj is a more appropriate solution. However, we also have data that Serbian widows are also looking for missing persons in the areas of the Republic of Croatia, that is a humanitarian issue, there is nothing to politicise there, and that question also needs to be resolved in a fair way. I'm sure it's one thing for the ministry to do a thankless job. It's easy to teach lessons in the opposition, but when you get in a position to decide then you just see what life is like. This is where these particular problems are solved, the problems of small people, the victims, the sensitive, the revolutions, the people who have lost everything and clearly need to be extremely careful here. There are a few other problems they're warning me about. That's these scholarships. Apparently, this fund didn't come back to life and it was supposed to be somewhere at 6 months. The problem of buildings discussed by MPs, ministers, is enormous. Those buildings in Pula it's a shame, I mean shame, I won't anymore because I don't have time red is, to elaborate on it. The problem of campsites in Valovinas in Pula too, but this is the problem of the Ministry of Defence, not the ministry taking care of defenders etc. etc. And for the end of one last sentence, that the disabled from Bosnia and Herzegovina should be monitored as disabled in the Republic of Croatia. If they responded to Tudjman and Šushko's call, they were killed in that war, no matter what I thought of that war, as well as our Istrians who receive Italian pensions, there are 12 thousand Istrians, Opatijans, Rijekans, etc. they have the right to meet them, and about that war, I have my own opinion, and often I've pointed it out. So what I'm saying is that it's being taken care of, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44700	Thank you very much. You can't even out those who made pensions to participate in the Italian army. The Italian army acted as an occupation force in Istria and Croatia in World War II. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44701	They were Mr. President on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. All those who were there eventually participated in the Partisan movement. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44702	We're not talking about them. Thank you very much. You can't even it out, it's called the Homeland War, and you can't even it out. ... Corrections to incorrect allegations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44703	Dear Mr. President, regarding the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Caine refers precisely to pensions, and I find it incorrect that these, the institute of the lowest pensions, are the benefits. This is no benefit for Croatian defenders because it takes them 40 years to retire and if they do not get those conditions then 17 of them are now getting an average of 1.887.00 kuna. And what is the benefit, I will tell you the case of two Croatian volunteers from the Homeland War who told me in Knin, who are receiving a pension from Serbia and Montenegro, and in messy and small amounts, unlike the so-called so-called "retirement". Serbian volunteers living in Belgrade who receive regular Croatian pensions. Now, that's for two Croatian volunteers, Mr. Cain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44704	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44705	Mr. President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Cain, where he claimed that the dividend of 7% of HT shares belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund and that it has not been paid, and so has Mr. Cain as well as Pancic. I can only say that it is absolutely incorrect, that the dividend by law belongs to the fund and defenders from the moment of transfer of 7% of shares to the fund, i.e. start of stock management.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44706	And the third correction, honourable representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44707	I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who in a number of times stated that the Republic of Croatia is a unique example in the world at a high level of the rights of defenders, which is completely incorrect and counterpart Kajin is not referred to in this problem obviously, because if he had known that in countries in the nearest environment only the status of defenders also brings monthly material rights, in a wider environment it is also. Our Croatian defenders have the right to have other than these declarative rights, they may be entitled to shares and several thousand values, perhaps if the fund works. And said counterpart Kovacevic, when they are 65 and 40 years old, they will have the minimum pension. Other rights of material defenders in a broader sense do not have and is not an exact claim and it is very bad and wrong to send a persistent message to the public that is being sent to Croatian media, from this place that all Croatian defenders have great material rights. Croatian wartime disabled, yes, but Croatian defenders do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44708	Thank you very much. For that information to be given by the Prime Minister, I'm setting a 10-minute break. We're continuing the debate. It's on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44710	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families shows that there have been sensitive developments in solving issues related to defence rights. But as it always happens, there's always something left to improve. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who entered into force in 1.1.2005 also showed his weaknesses resulting from the absence of a wider public debate and the absence of consensus between numerous associations of volunteers. It is estimated that the law has also brought major divisions among defenders, namely the former holders of the status of Croatian military disabled, have improved their position while other volunteer defenders will do so harder because they are insufficient to follow regulations. It seems that some associations have given their own court of law without taking care of its conductivity and towards them to the entire population in Croatia. These problems of non-resolving status as well as issues of housing problems, employment issues as well as inadequate medical care, mainly in persons with PTSD symptoms, have an increasing number of other diseases, as well as an increase in defence suicides. There is a great problem in achieving the possibility of medical proof of PTSD, a disease that has been created as a result of direct participation in the defence of Croatia's sovereignty and as a cause of other diseases. It is important for patients to be given quality treatment and that deadlines for granting the status of a Croatian wartime invalid be extended by one year and thus give these people sufficient time to complete all necessary documentation. It would be good to give another year, so by the end of 2006, for the reasons that we have stated, that these legal acts, sublegal acts, are still sufficiently out of line. And it is clear that the rights of defenders must be enforceable, and all defenders must be made available evenly, because that is the only way to ensure that the law will have its full application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44711	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44712	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about the 2004 report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Well, here we have already realized today that defenders are certainly one of the most responsible that we have here today the opportunity to start negotiations with the European Union, and that is why it would certainly be necessary to take care of their rights in the right way. Although I must conclude that from this report I cannot quite say that it is systematiced by users and their rights as stated in the law and how it should be, this report is sometimes difficult to follow because certain rights are intertwined and presented in different places. In the entire report, certain categories are being carried out that they cannot exercise certain rights under the law and are not some of those categories mentioned here, nor are they subject to laws such as peacetime military invalids and civil victims of war. The report also shows the implementation of other laws and regulations through practically 10 institutions which are also connected to this law in a certain way, but have their other powers and directly their implementation of their activities is not even related to this law, such as: Employment mediation law, then the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities, etc. The report sometimes finds it difficult to determine the real condition and needs of individual categories of victims. For example, data for the purchase of a disabled vehicle do not match. 80 people with disabilities are behind in 2003, 43 were regularly awarded in 2004 and 14 were first acquired the right to total 137, and the same shows us the purchase of 122 vehicles with delivery deadline by the end of 2005. It's practically impossible then to combine certain data that are listed, at least that's how it was for me. According to the report, it turns out also that then some of those disabled people who have, these are the hardest ones who have right, drive a car I don't know 8 or 9 years old, then we can rightly wonder when it's going to be the turn of those who have now achieved this right in 2005, so only a few years after that would turn out to be, and we have to say that these are the most difficult categories of military people, and I think we should take care of these most difficult categories more carefully. When we talk about the housing report, he's also a little vague. There are differences between individual categories and defenders and family members of the deceased defenders as well as differences in status care and they are quite large to be able to come down to a total of 13 thousand 113 requests. How many victims have so far been taken care of, and how many others really need to be taken care of is the key piece of information I haven't found. There is a great difference between those who provide housing and those who improve housing conditions. The report cannot determine the number of victims, the user of the renewal as a returnee to their environment from where they were exiled. I also didn't find that information in the report. There are also various tables in the Report from other institutions, institutions, ministries and I wonder what that means. So do we have a full picture of it or don't we just take some other data from other ministries that other ministries are in charge of? I think we should combine that with accurate data, especially by comparing what the requirements are real, what are real needs and what happened in that particular time. But since this is a report under the old law, I believe that in the new conduct it will be far better. When we talk about measures for the employment of Croatian defenders carried out by the Employment Service, they are not the subject of this Law, but it is certainly important to look at them. They've brought some indicators, but here, since 5.8 practically no more of these measures by the end of the year, as far as I've ever heard, they're not going to be at the Employment Office. That means we've lost those measures for a few months. We have a break that just seems to me, for the defense population, is not good. It should stimulate businesspeople to keep it continuous and only then can they achieve results. And here it is evident that these measures have nevertheless yielded certain results and, in this way, especially with these measures, what I'm saying is that the disbursement of these incentive funds itself is late for six months, I think, seven months, which also creates problems with the economy. I also have a personal opportunity to see just one defender complaining to me about it. In that part, it would really be good to have a regular payment of these measures and to get a complete system of measures that the Government will implement at the employment of not only defenders but also all other unemployed. Also in this Report there is no word about the allocation of shares that are most interested in all categories of defenders and victims. Especially those dividend problems at T-Com, which has already been mentioned today. Also unknown is the real state of the population of the children of the deceased defenders, their widows, parents, and disabled and their families. And since there's no complete data, then I also have to say that we're certainly not familiar with either their problems as they are. And I think that in the following reports it should certainly be united, not just through some tables, but really with a certain representation of the situation and the problems that are. Because I'm saying, those populations are certainly responsible for that. The Ministry's intention is to take care of Croatian defenders and family members and present through the reports the problems of the population for which it is in charge. And from this report, we can't fully look at it. And I'm saying, that's why I'd like it no matter what the old law says, but it would be good if the next report, which is according to the new law, were better quality and that we could say in the end that we're dealing with certain problems, and not that, like so far, we're being stopped by our fellow defenders, and they're asking how help to get some sort of case in the administrative court solved that's been standing for over three years. Here, I personally met a man the other day in... who begs me, asks how to get a solution to the administrative court that's been standing there for over three years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we spoke on the Justice Committee yesterday about the Law on Courts, then our respected professor who is a member of the Committee, I think Horvatic, said that judges must also take care of priorities when solving certain files. And I think that this population certainly deserved to be the priority of solving these problems. And I'm saying, we have cases I've even heard over four years of disputes stand. You must know that. And here, it's my appeal to really try all together to influence that at least these people, and we've seen how many suicides and everything else, etc. So if he can't solve his problem for 3.4 years then the question at all is what we're doing here, if we can't let the team that's most responsible for the state let them at least have a normal solution to their legal disputes within some minimum time frame. That's it from the HSS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44713	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44714	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning to show satisfaction that perhaps for the first time on a single report and in general on the problem of Croatian defenders to discuss without too much politics and political disqualification. Although some unacceptable words could have been heard in this debate, let us leave this to one of the enthusiasms led by parliamentary representatives during these discussions. Which doesn't mean we can't be critical of them. In fact, criticism, but certainly justified criticism. It gives hope that some things are still being repaired, not only in the Assembly but in our society as a whole, although we should be careful, we must not be too naive. Personally, me and the SDP Club are always in favour of a reasoned debate and a fair political match. When we talk about the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for the past year, I would refer in a few sentences to what we could hear from the Deputy Prime Minister who unfortunately does not have it here, it is said that this report is objectively and comprehensively, and that the ministry has fully worked in accordance with the law. So maybe I should say a few words to this formal part of the coverage and objectivity of the Report. I couldn't agree with that because otherwise, and in my hands I had about a dozen reports that year, half-years since 97, I think, so I can compose different reports. This number of errors and failures of the entire sub-chapter against the 2003 Report, not to mention the 2002 report, which also led to parliamentary representatives and their demands, may have been the most comprehensive. So many mistakes, I say, in this report there wouldn't be. Collecting and synchronising data is not easy, which shows this debate 9 months after the conclusion of the last year. It takes time, but it does not represent any particular demanding process, especially if the ministries and the government's working bodies are functioning. Unfortunately, this report was also made as did last year's Budget where data on the implementation of the budget are adjusted as needed. And you'll agree that's not good. And as far as the ministry's been working under the law, I'm going to give one, one example is enough. This suggests the criminal treatment committed against officials for taking bribes from unemployed Croatian defenders. These were incentives of 20 thousand kunas that these people were getting and officials in that ministry were taking half. My well-intentioned suggestion, indeed well-intentioned, is to be taken into account when such evaluations are given, and the assessment was that the ministry works perfectly. Let's move on to content. And this report, as well as the overall experience of these 15 years, shows that two basic possibilities of building a system of care for Croatian defenders. One is built through active measures including retraining, retraining and employment, with clearly demonstrated material and health care for the most severe victims, for Croatian wartime wartime people and families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders. So combining these measures gives the best results and you can say that this is a good system of concern in my opinion. How close Croatia has come to that, we can doubt it, it has partly drawn closer. The second is based primarily on passive measures of pension and disability that are relevant, but must not be alone. I repeat, not once here, is not a solution to the retirement of a 35 or 40-year-old who has no serious physical impairment and before which the entire working life has already proved to be wrong. This report shows exactly the tendency of a certain increase in both the financial and the number of beneficiaries of pension and disability allocations and the reduction which is a very significant amount for the employment and education of Croatian defenders, thus reducing the amount by 27 million compared to 2003. So government policy is reading the redistributions from active to passive measures, without significantly increasing the budget, and with the new law that came into force this year, which also prefers greater separations from pensions, that is today's situation. I believe that the consequences of this government policy will continue to be strengthened with a very quickly visible problem of inability to find enough financial resources in the budget which will lead to the lack of realisation in the law. I wish I was wrong. Unfortunately, the experience says otherwise, let's remember the 98th and the inability to pay off disability on the legal basis of 160%, but we'll see who's entitled to it anyway. Let's go to the report items specifically. The report, as I said, contains a series of questionable exact data, remains doubt whether it's a random error or not. I've always wondered what it's like for some 2+2 or 5 or 3 when needed and never 4 as it is for normal people. In short, if I were to add up, I'd ask the government's representatives to try to track, if we add up family and disability pensions, that's about 2 billion kunas together, a billion 100 plus 900 roughly speaking, and a debt paid out in 2004. 97 million if I'm not cheating, and if we add to that the professional rehabilitation fee of 338 million seems to me, the total amount of pensions paid is on the pool table on page 4 increased by 210 million. The text further states the translation of pensions but is not visible anywhere in which amount. If we see a report for 2003 there are only two items added up, family and disability pensions, and there are some billions and 900, and here it's not even visible even if taxes and weights were added up there would never be 2 billion 700 and something million, now I don't know if it's a mistake, we'll hear it anyway. I hope this isn't about embellishing reality because no one gets it, perhaps in the short term, certainly not in the long run. If pension rights are acquired, it is seen from the report that the number of users has increased by 14% and that the audit committees which determine the basis of the pension fund requirements have significantly reduced the criteria. In 2003, there were 44% of cases and 63% of cases, which meant 19% higher. If we know that in the new law it is possible for the experts to decide independently about the causal consequences of the disease of the wound, the war injury which was one of our biggest objections to the law will come back to chaos where people who do not have the status of the Croatian Military War Disabilities will also go to disability pensions. We have already discussed all this in the discussion of the new Law, but we warn that it would not be said again if we hadn’t spoken. It is also interesting in housing care to reduce funds by 107 million kuna, while noting that the number of applications for housing is not reduced. I'm just asking a question, unfortunately, again I'm going to ask the secretary of state who answered that in a satisfactory way, but yet there's no answer, Mr. Minister, does this have anything to do with the support of some new model of building 100,000 apartments in 10 years worth 4 billion euros? The secretary of state already denied it once, but we could hear here a few hours ago preparing some new model. I warn you that this new model is contrary to the existing law and that it goes to the hands of any white-world tycoons, let's call them that. My proposal is to leave the building of apartments and most of the requirements need to be resolved through loans, first because of speed, second due to observations on the quality of the apartments, and the third is avoided in this way by the ghettoisation of the defenders. And there's only one question that needs to be taken into account, the defenders an hour ago, two of which is with those people who have been waiting for ten or more years, 30% of them are disabled based on injury, and there's one belief that the new people with disabilities usually, based on PTSD, skips and 30 or 40% of the disabled, and they've been waiting 10 or more years to resolve their rights. In the course of enrolment in educational institutions and the right to scholarship, it is doubtful missing in the report, how many children and Croatian military disabled persons have achieved this scholarship and it is invisible, there are no numbers of how many students under the old law are enrolled at universities. There are no accommodations in dormitories, as there are no data on the accommodation of retirement homes, I really don't know because it was never a problem in previous reports. This report only speaks of children enrolled in high school. Since the new law is the right to enrol in colleges has been expanded and the possible problems we have well-intentioned you with amendments. The question is what about children and Croatian wartime disabled people who, for example, enrolled in college in 2004 and paid for the study. And my suggestion is for the members of the government to agree between themselves, the Ministry of Family, Defence and the Ministry of Science what they intend to do about this problem that has opened up and people are really calling and asking. In the case of the allocation of shares that were not understandable in 2004, the question should again be asked why the HT dividend amounting to about 240 million kuna has not been paid into the fund. At the same time, a total of 340 thousand kuna were paid for the stands in the fund for associations. With the fundamental problem of Croatian defence employment society, it is evident that the funds from 150 million kuna have been reduced to 23 and the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, we have said here that the number of unemployed has decreased by 7%. Unfortunately, according to the Croatian Employment Institute, it rose from 26,000 362 in the 12th month of 2003 to 26,000 962 in the 12th month of 2004. You can say it's not a big increase but until then there was a trend of reduction. Also, August 2005 data has been more unfavourable since August 2004 so today 25 thousand 274 are unemployed Croatian defenders. As the season's work ends, the figure will grow further. This makes us not a good solution to abolishing the government's employment measures for Croatian defenders as well as other citizens. When we talk about suicides here, it is stated that 12 Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons committed suicide. We should avoid any politics. One man to take his own life is too much. For this reason, all information that goes public must be true and must be professionally valorised. That wasn't the case until today. If we manipulate the numbers, then how can we introduce the right measures and the right strategy to prevent suicide? The answer is no. And you will allow me another topic and that is one of the most painful issues in the Republic of Croatia. It is a matter of finding missing Croatian defenders and civilians. In this respect, this report shows that no significant progress has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44715	Your Honor, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44716	Here's just two more missing persons. I think this subject deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44717	You already have 20 seconds overtime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44718	I don't think we should worry about the problem of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44719	Finish in two sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44720	And personally, I was dissatisfied with the speed of special identification jobs. I therefore believe that the government should leave the existing system of organising this demanding job as well as the president of the Association of Detained and Missing Two weeks ago in one of our weekly points to the problems of the existing model and therefore we propose to re-institute the Government's Office for Detained and Missing. And on concrete measures, we'll discuss it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44721	I thank you, Mr. Representative. Your time is up. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44722	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I have two incorrect allegations. The first incorrect allegation that the former government adhered to the principles that retirement is not a solution for Croatian defenders. That this principle could not have been followed by the fact that from 1.1.2000 to 31 December 2004, the figure from 26,000 totals pensions and disability and family increases from 26 to 36,000 and is now in the ninth month to 38,000. So it's not life-giving. About that amount of 2 billion and 700 that was spent on pensions from the position of the family ministry. It's true that it's been spent but there's no sign of what's been done for the former government. In fact, in that position are now the pensions of the Croatian Army and they are now at this point. There were seven thousand and 200 at the end of last year, and now there are 11 thousand and 300.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44723	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll only talk about the first part of the report, the first 30 pages. That's the part of the report that treats the disabled. Who's the person with the disability, the Colloquial Disabilities? A person with certain damage to the body. Invalidity is one of the forms of life as a childhood, as an age. However, such a relationship with disabled people and disability has not always existed, and today there are no schools of opinion such as some religions. So the Bible - New Testament of the Gospel of John says that after the healing of the blind Jesus answered the questions of the disciples who asked him, "Teacher, who sinned, him or his parents that he was born blind?". When he shared the grace of healing the disabled, the removal of the disability of the taken, the blind, the dumb, the deaf Jesus regularly said, "Go and sin no more.". Inadequacy is therefore understood in the Bible, in Christianity as punishment for some sin committed. I personally believe the entire SDP club does not share that attitude towards disability or disability. The invalid is not guilty of his disability and disability is not and cannot be punished for some mistake. For this reason disabled people should not suffer punishment, they need neither mercy nor pity. But they need respect and help from society. Only in this way will every disabled person become an equal member of society, protected from any discrimination because of their disability. The society of justice should also protect people with disabilities from discrimination within themselves, and this discrimination with regard to the origin of disability. There are different ways in which people become disabled in the first place. Some as disabled are born, one’s disability is the result of sickness, age, possibly trauma, accidents at work, traffic, another accident in ordinary civilian life or the death of war. And when they get killed in the war, they can get hurt again as soldiers or as civilians. With us each of these categories has different status and different social concerns. And why is that? Is the sight of one less valuable than the sight of another? Is one man's hearing less valuable than the hearing of another? Is someone's leg worth more than another man's leg? And in this law, we have reports of disability benefits. And now watch out, for personal disability, civilians can get a thousand and 100 kuna and Croatian wartime wartime disableds at most 4000 and 54 kuna. I think it's a category of disability allowance or whatever it's called. When it comes to blindness, civilians get 270 kuna, defenders get about 3,000 kuna. No one can be compensated for their vision with either 270 kuna or 3 thousand kuna or 300 thousand kuna. No money can restore a man's lost vision. But just because money can't be valued, the question is why this different treatment for people with disabilities. Civil persons with disabilities have no right to a special allowance or to an orthopaedic allowance, neither to a supply nor to a whole series of other rights listed in this report. I don't stand here to reduce the rights of Croatian military disableds but to reduce other disabled people, regardless of the origin of disability, equally in rights with them. How to explain a different approach, e.g. the disabled men of the People's Liberation Fight and the disabled defenders of the Homeland War. Both fought for the freedom of their people. Both fought against a known and dangerous aggressor. Both fought in an army that stood up for just goals. Both experienced disability in that struggle. Today we don't value them equally. Is the lost partisans worth less than the lost eye of the Homeland War fighter? Let me get this straight. We're here to discuss how a law is implemented that is in principle not just because it doesn't treat all people with disabilities equally. He is just witnessing that we have a different approach to different categories of people with disabilities, and that is precisely in view of the origin of their disability. Can righteousness be achieved by an unfair relationship with all disabled people regardless of the reason for disability? We must not share the invalidities among ourselves, and even when that division brings some political points to individual parties, because no interest of the parties must be above the interests of the disabled and no interest of the parties must be beyond the basic concept of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44725	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, members or representatives of the government. So when I look at this report, it seems to me that we still have to point out some things that are good, but there are things that deserve the criticism of this House of the High and the wider Croatian public. I will, however, focus a little more on the employment of Croatian defenders because I think that all defenders are the best example of their rehabilitation, training to perform at work because in this way there will certainly be less problems and with post-traumatic stress syndrome, with inclusion in society, with everything else. And that is why if we look at the table on page 68, we see a review of the number of unemployed Croatian defenders in 2004 per month of the paradoxical situation. On one side, we have the number of unemployed Croatian defenders getting smaller, but it seems to me that when I look at such authority, in some of the most developed Croatian counties, the number of unemployed is growing. I would like to get an interpretation from the Government which is the reason why it means that in certain counties there is a growing number of unemployed Croatian counties, is the reason why they are less professionally trained, which perhaps part of Croatian defenders simply doesn't want to go to retraining, schooling and anything else offered as a possibility or something else. I understand, there may be company bankruptcy, but we are immediately adding that on page 65, 66 we have talks on the advantages of Croatian defenders in employment. I have personally heard from several Croatian defenders who appeared in competitions, including in state or judicial authorities, and who simply failed. They had equal or equal conditions for receiving into the state service, but they were always chosen by someone else or someone else, even in certain bodies they were advised not to complain because they would be accepted some other time. Here we have an interesting table, that even here it writes neatly for those who have complained or asked for additional supervision, I think that those who have sought supervision are far less than there really was a need for appeal and now we have an interesting thing, that in five district units we seem to have only five measures where it was found to be justified. It seems to me, and I propose to the Croatian government, and also to this House of Highers, given that we have passed such a law, yes, and the lack of this report is what it means to me today, when here is the end of 2005, we do not have a report and information against those who knowingly violated the law and where it was established that despite the cancellation of the tender, a Croatian defender who should have had the advantage was not received. It is said that criminal charges have been filed, it would be interesting to hear what Croatian courts have imposed measures and how much penalties are for non-compliance with this law. Because here we see all our hypocrisy, on the one hand we all talk about Croatian defenders how they need midnight, we need to hire them, and on the other hand it just doesn't work out. That is why I propose that it is publicly indicated that individuals and possibly trade societies and bodies of state and judicial authorities that do not implement this law so as to show both the climate and the atmosphere in this society as much better and better quality, because I think that if we swear to Croatian defenders and their rights that we should then allow them to perform in the world of work. Another thing I would like to point out is that these are individual solutions of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that have not been spent in life for years, i.e. they are not implemented. The fact is here, I have here one subject which I will give to the representatives of the government, where the user of the invalid pension as a Croatian wartime war disability should get means along with a disability pension and a certain supplement. To be exact, I don't turn out to be a hypocrite, and during that coalition government, that wasn't what it was. It's true... In 2004, because of our unfulfilled promises, we lost the election, and that's certainly one of those details. But I don't see any reason why today, here is the end of 2005, a solution that came into effect in the end of the 10th month, means at the end of October, almost a year, the appeal is not delayed, but the paradox is given the same solution literally writes this way: "The disability pension determined by this solution will be paid by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office from the funds secured in the state budget monthly back." However, there is a certain difference here and it is said: "The difference between translated disability pensions with a pension allowance for the period from 7 November 2001 to 30 June 2004, with the calculation of the amounts paid for the same period will be paid later after the funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is secured." Obviously, I would like to hear the reasons why, to this day, this was not done because we were also in the budgets providing money for such needs. If the disabled are needed, then the wartime military disabled who are otherwise specifically involved here is a man of extremely poor material status with two children, one of whom is a high school girl, expenses and everything else. Which barely brings the end to an end, however, there is no payment. I think we all have to work together on this, and I will be very glad to see that when we discuss the implementation of the State budget for this year which are the reasons, so, for a concrete solution that exists that is not being paid out because I don't believe that so many of these solutions are that the money is not provided in the state budget. The special item also refers to, and that is what counterpart Pancic spoke of on behalf of the SDP Club, it is about dividends and payouts, meaning the allocation of shares to Croatian defenders. It seems inappropriate to me that they still do not pay, or give, that, although the foundation of the Croatian Defence Fund, we still do not know in particular in the portfolio that companies enter into that portfolio. I allow myself not to know myself, but I think you should do it. There have also been several issues of representation when and the profit, meaning the dividend of Croatian Telekom will begin to be paid into the Croatian Defence Fund in order for Croatian defenders to get what they deserve by law and allow. I think we talk too much. We are aware that in this country, perhaps at this time, the financial situation is not the brightest. Every year she gets better and better. However, there is no reason for the Croatian Telecom dividend not to be rerouted to the Croatian Defence Fund in order for Croatian defenders to get what they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44727	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44728	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague who is talking about the payoff of dividends and who is talking about shares and that it is unknown from which all companies are pouring 7% stake into the Croatian Defence Fund. It is true that it is true that all state-owned companies that will be privatised, which is INA, which is Croatian Forests, Croatia Elektroprivreda and all others that will be privatised these 3 years, 7% of the stake belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund. Also, dividends, I said today, and you probably didn't listen, that the dividend belongs to the Fund, and also to the defenders from the moment of taking over 7% of HT's shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44729	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44730	So, from the day they were transferred to the Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44731	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44732	Mr. Vice President, this was not at all a correction to the incorrect allegations because there is still no official, dear colleague, whether you want to admit it or not, you do not have the official shares that are officially entered by companies in the Croatian Defence Fund. You haven't made a correction, I'm sorry. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44733	Thank you. And now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, you haven't listed the article that I hurt, but good. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Just a few answers to this information Mr. Korenik made when it comes to the debt to the pensioners. The debt stems from 2001, right, and was created under the 2001 Law. The legal obligation was also to pay off that debt by the end of 2004 and within 3 years. Unfortunately, he hasn't been paid. It is also through these solutions which have been issued to defenders consistent and accurately established. And the height of that debt is somewhere around 330 million kuna and will try to get rid of the period ahead. Unfortunately, as a ministry, we were burdened not only with this debt but even with a 97-year debt. And last year, 97 million kunas of that debt were paid. Thus, on this example, this government has shown both seriousness and responsibility when obligations to defenders, and this debt clearly established will be made to users. As far as legal provisions are concerned, the advantages under equal employment conditions are known exactly who and which institutions are concerned. We're like the Ministry of All those cases for which we had information, of course, and officially responded. Further procedures and procedures are at other institutes, i.e. institutions, and we see that in those cases where this has been signalled, the work has been successfully done. When it comes to dividends in the Croatian Defence Fund, I must say that it has already settled a dividend of 12 million kuna, but for the period since the HT shares were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. The government was clear on the request of the Fund’s Management Board, i.e. the Governing Council, on the issue of these 220 million which are often mentioned in the discussions. And the government's view is that the right to dividend, which I personally also agree with, is that the right to dividend is acquired when shares are transferred to the Fund. And from the moment the shares of dividends were transferred will sit neatly at the expense of the Croatian Defence Fund. And just one more thing, when it comes to the number of unemployed Croatian defenders, it should be borne in mind that in the past year, two days there have been significant increases in the number of unemployed for the simple reason that as an excess of several thousand people have found themselves applying to the Employment Bureau. And it has significantly disrupted this picture and the ultimate number of those who have taken these measures by the government to resolve the issue of their employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44735	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44736	Well, I'd fix the secretary of state about the dividend. You know, there can't be a government with some authentic interpretation. It is necessary to simply act on what is the practice of finance. So, the owner of the shares acquires the right to all future dividend payments, and the dividend payments are made for operations from the previous period. If the shares of HT were transferred at the beginning of this year for the benefit of the Croatian Defence Fund, then the Fund, or Croatian defenders, have the right to pay the dividend for the past fiscal, or financial year, which is 2004. The government can't automatically interpret the laws in the stock business, from what's usually on the stock market. Therefore, dividends are not something acquired from the future period but dividends are what will be gained as a benefit from the previous period of business.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44737	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of Jure Bitjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44738	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are, in front of the defense associations and in general in front of the Croatian public is the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2004. Since some colleagues have made certain observations at the expense of the report itself according to my modest assessment, I will say that it is done professionally, competently, that it is simple and that it is comprehensive and transparent. I think for anyone who is well-intentioned to be able to read in some way everything the Ministry has done in the past year at the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and their families. I'd like to congratulate and I'm sorry the minister isn't here for the concern she expressed in a2004. A year for defenders, and I would like to congratulate her and the secretary of state on establishing the dialogue that the Ministry established and the Croatian Government as a whole when it comes to defence associations during 2004. Why am I pointing that out? According to my assessment of this dialogue, and I think that the public in Croatia is normally a witness that this dialogue was not in place on 3 January 2004, and by the end of 2003, and that the former Ministry of Defence or the former Government was that I would have said all that time, in one permanent agreement or open-mindedly speaking of the conflict when it came to defence associations, it was already a year and a half ago, I don't know whether the leaders of the former ministry and whether the former government found an answer to that question. But the fact that the situation was what it was like to be de facto of this dialogue was not that the defenders were pushed onto the social margin. Just when it comes to the 2004 report, I will repeat that, with all this, when it comes to the enforcement of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, that the Ministry firstly entered a normal dialogue with defence associations, let's just remember that all European, old democracy, states refer to their soldiers, to their defenders, those who protect national interests, if we go to France, England, etc., therefore, defenders must take their place in Croatian society what they belong to, in this way we repay only part of the debt for all that they have done for us. With everything done and what we have heard and in the report itself, it says that when it comes to the work of the Ministry during 2004, I think that the biggest job done by adopting here in the Croatian Parliament of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, he stepped in as we know on January 1st of this year, I think that now this current law has fairly and permanently secured the rights of defenders who should not be subject to changes in this Assembly, they are above all political per se and I hope that in the future when it comes to law enforcement and the law itself that there will be no political confrontations, where defenders would be as the object of some of our political measurement. I think that there were some reserves on Article 53 of the existing Law when it comes to enrollment in educational institutions, I think it's settled but we can talk and go to another segment when it comes to education, higher education, create these problems, but I think we can all agree that children of the deadly defenders, missing defenders, volunteers from the Homeland War and those who died that their children must have a certain treatment, thank God, provided they cross the threshold, and that in some way, that is our obligation, which is regulated by law and that they should be implemented. Let me say something when it comes to housing. I think that each of us Parliamentarians had at least a few phone calls or a street meeting where this issue is being raised when it comes to the housing of Croatian disabled homeland war, the families of the dead, let's think that they are mostly solved, but mostly disabled people with 20, 30 or 40% disability and that the issue has not been resolved yet, there are some outstanding 13 thousand according to this report, at country level. And thinking about this problem, I'm inclined in some way, and I'd be glad to find a particular model of whether within the Ministry, through the state budget, or through the domestic money market, to try to speed up the housing care of defenders, and in a way that gives primary priority to giving housing loans where housing conditions would improve, disabled domestic war could complete their homes, and I think it should be government policy to take care of the defenders in places where they've lived so far. That's what I'm saying because it's kind of looking at from an economical and mainly from a demographic aspect and a national interest. And here's the bottom line, I think that even before the debate, in a small way, when it comes to the rights of the defender, then it's kind of a wrong impression, that the defenders are taking care of their own material rights and privileges that are absolutely not true. We are witnessing that many defenders have also spent 10 years since the Homeland War, complaining that they have been forgotten in some way, and in this direction I think that this is the Ministry and you, Madam Minister, that you have done a lot in this mutual understanding and dialogue, and I am sure that in the atmosphere of these negotiations with the European Union, that defenders will take that position as well as in other democratic states where they have defended the interests of certain nations, certain countries. I am as confident as my colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament that the Ministry and Government have conducted their legal evaluations, and most importantly, I will repeat for the third time, establish dialogue, understanding with defense associations. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44739	Thank you. We have two replicas, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. The word has a distinguished representative Josip Djakic and a replica. Mr. Ivica Pancic gave up correcting the incorrect allegations and later raised his line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44740	Thank you very much. It's completely irrelevant. I'm replicating Mr. Bitunjec. It's his right to think this report was made professionally and competently, and it's my right to say it's not like that. But I'm giving an example, but no one here has denied me from the government's representative, when I say take the report and compare page 4 of the summary table, total pensions paid 2 billion 733 million, and on page 33, 34 when you add up all these items, whatever you add up, whatever you try, whatever mathematics you apply that number you can't get. I'll give you no idea what if you get that number of 2 billion 700, the more in that table that amount is 210 million more than it can be found in the content. I said where the doorknob might be hiding, but I'm not being held accountable. However, I move on to more important what Mr. Bitunjac said, that the former government was in a permanent misunderstanding with Croatian defenders. I didn't want to move that story, I don't want to go back to Split, or to the rally or to the blockades, to this debate. Who are they? What kind of government cooperates with The Hague? I don't want to be brought back there, but you're trying hard to tell you who was then to cooperate with The Hague and who isn't and who's implementing the operational plan today. At least I'm the action plan. Well, at least in family and church, I learned not to lie and to behave decently and honestly. I can be more right-handed than the good part of you. And why is that? Well, because I was never a member of the Communist Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44741	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Jura Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44742	My colleague Pancic, I will not bid with my religious belief at all, I will leave it to myself when it comes to the party. That was always far from my house. I don't know, about that ideological work, and I'm a little bit different. I didn't say that you... A young man but good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll get back to this. You mentioned the blockade of Split Action Plan. Action plan, I don't want to talk about it right now or I'm competent for these things, but I'll just say that this government, when it comes to international obligations to The Hague or to anyone, has no complex to carry out what is a national interest. You're a defacto while you were a minister, while you were in the government you were in I'd say not only in... the conflict rather than simply you had a habitual complex when it comes to defense associations but it's a problem for you and your parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to Split's blockades. I mean, to tie them to defense organizations if it were nonsensical, I wouldn't particularly comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44743	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44744	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to replicate to my colleague Bitunjec in the part where he didn't end up touching the report and he really didn't tell what the report was actually carrying. He described everything well, said everything wonderfully, because that is what it really is. However, what adorns him is the finding of a state audit, which contains only one segment written at the end of the audit report, and it is that the review assessment is unconditional. In doing so, I would like to say that the previous reports we have seen since 2000 have had some important remarks bordering the Criminal Law and the provisions under which criminal proceedings were to be initiated. I would further point out that when it comes to the fact that the report is not correct, that it is like this, that I want to repeat what my colleague Bitunjac said, which is that the housing of Croatian defenders in 2004 was increased by 12.48%, which means that in 2004, a thousand and 198 requests from Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. And I can say from my county that it's only those with 40% left and individuals who don't have any more family members and everyone else has already been solved, but for them we've prepared land, two buildings go, and we'll solve them by the end of our term. I would also like to emphasise what is not mentioned that for the first time in nine cities a contract and help to resolve access to our disabled through elevators, through approaches etc. Done. It's a real concern for the defenders and that's what Mr. Bitunac didn't say today. I hope they'll still be complemented and they'll still be able to say what hasn't arrived in response to my replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44745	Okay. So we're introducing a replica of something the predecessor didn't say. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44746	Well, I'd like to thank my esteemed fellow party friend for supplementing my brief presentation. But what's important is that when we're talking about defenders, we never take the defense guard on one side. And I'm going to point out that defense associations, absolutely all defense associations, trust this ministry, this minister and this government. That's what's important, that's the point I've tried in some way in my presentation to present. If I wasn't precise, I think it's clear now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44747	Thank you. And now let's hear from the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I'd like to apologize for not being since the beginning of the afternoon debate. Excuse me. I believe you'll receive an apology. In fact, in the Croatian government, there was a meeting with the prime minister about one of the topics mentioned here several times today. These are the shares, it is the Croatian Defence Fund, and here with the satisfaction of ladies and gentlemen the MPs can inform you that within a few days, I predict that a decision on the transfer of 7% of the part of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War will be made next week, so here I think that Croatian defenders, but that both you MPs and MPs can be satisfied with this report but also with what will be the 2005 report when we talk about law enforcement. So, I would just like to say a little bit more since here I have arrived at these replicas and I have heard that this was also about the presentation of the SDP representatives regarding the report itself, or how it was done, how the data were presented. The report was done professionally. Mr. Pancic knows exactly how to do the reports. This is the Ministry responsible for submitting reports to the Croatian Parliament. They're done really according to all the data the ministry has. And I repeat once again the fact that I ask you to consider in the further debate, that this report is currently being discussed in the audit report. If the audit report, which has been combed as you know all the items, which have been reflected in each paper, said that the ministry has also done excellent business in law enforcement and in all those matters concerning the state budget or the fulfilment of obligations to the state budget, then I believe there is no reason for you to doubt it here. I'd also like to say two more words about the register. He's mentioned too much. Ladies and gentlemen, the register of Croatian defenders should have been made long ago. Personally, I don't think it's good and it actually falls on the burden of all of us that ten years after the end of "Storm" we didn't have a register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. That job was supposed to have been done long ago. I'm not going to mention now who was supposed to do it, the legal obligations were clear from the 2001 law. That job wasn't done. The job was done by this government, not easy at all. It only became clear to me when we went into the business of making a register, when the commission was established. I have to mention the fact that you must know very well but perhaps the general public doesn't know. The Croatian Defence Ministry has never issued certificates of Croatian defence status. Those certificates were issued at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, we have received lists from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior. Those two lists were to be pooled. There's been a lot of work here. I'm not going to mention now the data that was repeated, that were incomplete, that had everything and everything. We've made an effort to clear up everything that didn't belong on those lists, to get all relevant information on the people on that list and the list that's in front of you, the public is who it is. It is 489 thousand 407 Croatian defenders who have that status and have the right to be on that list. I would also like to ask the vice president and the minister not to politicise about it as well. That the number isn't manipulated because it wasn't made available to someone, somewhere in a cabinet, in a kitchen, but it's him, it's a reflection of reality. That's the number we have. We have made one great presentation, for all interested MPs I am willing to organise another presentation just for you to show you how it went from year to year, how the figure was changing. Of course, all these people weren't all the time, you know that in the defense of Croatia, they were changing. And I would perhaps quote the statement of one mother of the late Croatian defender at the register presentation, because of course we showed the register to the associations first and foremost, and then we went public the next day. Who said she supported the register as the registrar supported all the defense associations and said one important sentence: I stand behind each of these people who have status if they have it. I don't doubt that. Because maybe it was someone who was only two or three days in defense who gave my son the last glass of water when he was dying, when he was fatally wounded. Either he tried to get my son or someone else's son out of the front lines, help him, get to the hospital, and that way he might save someone's life. So I ask you to really look at this sensitive problem with a lot of attention, that we are talking about it with a lot of attention and dignity that we would not be making new troubles first of all for Croatian defenders who are rightly experiencing it as a kind of attack on them. So again, I repeat, the number that is ahead of us, which is in the register, the number that is real, this job is done, this job is done, the only thing that we have yet to do is to separate the fighting sector from the non-combat sector and 80% of that work is done, this job is done as you know in the Ministry of Defence. It is important because of its participation in the Croatian Defence Fund, which differs naturally by the number of points fought by the non-combat sector. And finally, here are ladies and gentlemen, since it has been mentioned, that there have been mentioned suicides, I also appeal when we talk about the suicides of Croatian defenders, please be very, very careful because I do not think it should be particularly explained why it is important. Any debate about this causes new anxiety among those who have suffered from post-traumatic disorder. I'll tell you one last thing, we're also, I'm telling you, this government has spoken publicly for the first time about the number of suicides, last year somewhere at the beginning of the term, I gave you 1366 suicides among Croatian defenders, for the first time as you know. However, after investigating additional documents, first of all, the Ministry of Defence came up with new data, and as soon as we found out, as soon as we did a new check, we came out with new data, I repeat it once more before you. We haven't had any data all this time, all these years, like the 91st or 92th situation. Turns out, our records said that, for example, in 91, there were no suicides, so that's where that 1366 number we had last year. However, we later came to the data that in 91 there were 14 suicides, that in 92 there were 65 suicides and the data were previously talking about 28. So by the end of 2004, that number was 1503. Unfortunately, 1503. With her in 2004. 96 Croatian defenders committed suicide, 2003. - 138, 2002. - 120, 2001. - 130, 2000. - 117, 99. - 153th, 98th. - 111, 97. - 108, 96. - 93, 95. - 132, 94. - 118, 93. - 104, 92. - 65, and 91. - 14. We are doing everything we can to help Croatian defenders who have problems, we have established a new way of PSP centres, we have launched a new psychosocial program and we are very closely working with associations of Croatian defenders who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. And we believe that all this together but also the overall atmosphere towards Croatian defenders must give positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44749	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44750	I'll look back at this... part of the suicide and the rest so we don't politicize, I'll go to the formal part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd like to ask if you have time to meet me for coffee tomorrow so you can tell me what a mathematical formula that's going to turn 1191 million disability pensions and 902 family pensions plus 96 million kuna debt, how it's going to turn into 2 billion 733 million. There's no 200 grand missing, no 2 million missing, 210 million missing. I'm not saying someone took it, but I'm saying those who wrote this report, and please look at pages 4 and pages 33 and 34. They've done it in an unskilled way, and no one's gonna get the crown out of their heads to say that a mistake has been made or behind it is hiding because we haven't been able to read it. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44751	Thank you. Here's the minister. You've got a call for coffee. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44752	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. First of all, I have to say, you don't have to overdo this report's praise. Normally, there are certain shifts, that all of this was as wonderful and wonderful as we hear today in the discussion of individual MPs, argues that we should not have passed a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Because here's how much of this was done under the old law. Therefore, we need to be realistic and look at everything in fact. In the first part of my presentation, I will look back at a significant number of paradoxes, failures and indeterminateities that come directly or indirectly from this report. The first is the question of pensions and the number of disabled and family pensions. Because it's derived from all of this in 2000 by 1. 1. there were a total of just under 26 thousand pensions, and of which there were about 10,000 pensions of family and 16 thousand Croatian wartime disabled people, so 26 thousand all advocated and talked about the principle of not dying defenders but solving through employment and finally with this report, the number of pensions increased in December, the situation from 31 December 2004 to 36 thousand. That figure is now in that moment for September 38,000 346. And when you take the number, say the Croatian military disabled, it's said in the report that there are 34 thousand. When it is considered to be here it is said that 26 thousand 234 persons are disabled, that 6 thousand users of the temporary fee, all Croatian military disabled persons are taken care of or that it is a small figure,... which is incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true because somewhere around 8 to 9 grand only gets disability. There's no other receipt. The thing that happened about the Croatian defenders themselves is particularly significant. So those who retired as members of the Croatian army and there is evidence that no one knows what they're saying, as they say? Let's listen to the Secretary of Defense's words. One time he's eight thousand, the other time nine, the third time ten thousand is retired. Now look at the data. For example, in 2000 there were about 300, just 345 people who used pensions under the Pension Rights Act, from the pension insurance of active military personnel. The figure was in December, with December 31st, 2004. Seven thousand 202 people. Now he's in, with September there's 11000 313. And the secretary of state said there was an increase in the number of unemployed by leaving part of the Croatian Army and applying to the Croatian Employment Service. Make a deal with the government who's telling the truth. Make a deal with the government who's telling the truth, and let us know. Everyone gives their information. Obviously, I agree and support the Deputy Prime Minister that everyone should take care of Croatian defenders, all institutions. Madam Vice President, you will have our support here. Slap your hand on the table and tell the Minister of Defense and everyone else that the situation is not so. You'll have the support of all institutions doing their part of the job. See how the ministries receive employees, hire Croatian defenders with them have no advantage. Take the public companies and everything. So that's where you'll have our support, bring in the order. Speaking of pensions, I couldn't believe it, but unfortunately, it's true. The case I was already talking about on 5.8th was in Knin this year, and now they're talking to three Croatian defenders. They are Croatian defenders, volunteers from the Homeland War who enjoy the pension of Serbia-Montenegro today. Why? Because before they came and gained volunteer status they worked in, in Vojvodina and had the first pension given to them by Croatia. Today, according to the agreement of the Croatian government which we have approved, they are getting a pension. Watch out Croatian volunteers from the Homeland War receive a pension from Serbia-Montenegro and that is not 1,000 kuna and irregular. And now that they were in that area they met with so-called. Serbian volunteers, Serbian volunteers, will use that term, which today live in Serbia or, or Belgrade and other areas. One of these Serbian volunteers said to this Croatian volunteer: "I have two and a half thousand kuna" says "Croatian pensions as a Serb volunteer. I get it regularly and still save myself. And how much do you have? You get you see from Serbia-Montenegro the amount of 1000 kuna and it's messy." Here it is, it's all your paradoxes, and how did it happen? When we spoke, when the law was passed. We said, "Take care of this work." She was the first variant. They are the meanings in that group of 15 thousand pensioners who, getting pensions from the area of one of the former Yugoslavia, whom this government has abolished and the compensation they have, are the extra special ones. So that stopped working at 1.1 this year. Nothing was done here. So it's one of the same big paradoxes. Now listen to the third paradox. We all know how much we appreciate and respect the city of Vukovar, a Vukovar hospital. Do you know how much the official data suggests? That the Vukovar hospital has given meaning to staff, doctors and medical staff, 450 people have the status of Croatian defender. They thus claim to be, and somewhere around 250 wounded, they could serve as much as they were in the Vukovar hospital. According to this data, it is a paradox that two medical professionals took care of one wounded Croatian defender or civilian. It's a paradox, it's a lie. Thus, it all proves that, as this figure could have grown, the medical staff and the doctor themselves provided 450 defenders. ... That's what she didn't give. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The smaller number was far away. Or it comes out to the number that two were on one call. And it's not sad, God forbid it was like that. Well, it wasn't like that. ... I know more, Mr. Vice President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please ask Mrs. Zdenko, she's nervous so she keeps throwing her way out or drinking lemonade one so she can be, but not that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44753	I'm warning you, don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44754	Yeah. That's it. Yeah. Now we're going to other situations. Let's say some of the rights contained in this report show that the number of users has been reduced. The basis for payment remained unchanged and more funds spent. This applies to supplies, special allowances and allowances for the care of another person. So there's a lot of these different situations that say yes, that they're paradoxes that I don't know how they were created. That paper basically puts up with everything. Especially, so the paradox is a large, huge number of housing problems, and 16% of the funds are not spent. What do you say now? 16% of the funds haven't been spent. Something could have been done, and no one would have answered for it. As far as paying off pension differences, a large number of Croatian defenders are concerned, he asks if they will be paid off next year, where they have all received solutions? It's somewhere I hear about 350 million kunas, and now there are all kinds of speculations, which I don't believe is true that one number has been paid off, another one hasn't been paid off. You've got to be good with HVIDRA, so he'll give you a recommendation, it'll be paid, and the rest will be paid. I don't think that's true, but that's where the ministry needs to be told the right and full information about whether it's going to be paid and when it's going to be paid? There is also nothing in the report about the length of the proceedings. Procedures to determine the status of a Croatian military disabled are still very long. He doesn't stick to legal deadlines. I have this significant number of examples where it's visible to wait 9.10 months from first degree to second. Only to come up with a solution. Not to mention the length of the second degree. There is also no record of how much administrative disputes are being held at this time before the Administrative Court of Croatia, and what is the amount, for example, of how much the Ministry must pay annually according to the ruling of the Administrative Court. So this all says that, that it could have been a far more quality report than it is. That it could be seen from more perspectives, but that's the thing that was, that's past. According to this certain shifts there are, we will support it. But we ask the Deputy Prime Minister to give these things where we will give them the support of the relations and responsibilities of all members of the government, all who have an obligation in any way but, if not otherwise, in the implementation of the regulations adopted by this Croatian Parliament to choose to act on it, not that each minister works on his own. And in employment, what else. Well, let's say there are a lot of examples at the Ministry of Justice that no Croatian defenders are taken in the employment of the KP home. I even had a situation to send them to go, but he has to go to a health check even though it wasn't contained in the competition. So there's a lot of there and this is a very bad position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44755	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the wrong quote in connection with the werewolf hospital. Apparently, a colleague is not aware that it is the total number of defenders from that hospital, and the crews have changed. We are from Zagreb as long as it can pass through the corn, we send every 15 to 30 days replacements with new teams and they were all of course in the status of defenders. By the time it couldn't get through the corn, then of course there was the last team left. So that's the sum of all those who've been circulating in shifts through the Vukovar hospital, and he's certainly not exaggerating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44757	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, what is it? Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's also an incorrect quote about 250 patients in a werewolf hospital. It's an optimal number at a normal time, so during peace. During these three months or three months, the sieges of Vukovar beds were in all possible rooms and mostly on three floors. In that case, the bill is completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44759	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44760	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44761	I thank you, the word has a distinguished representative, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44762	Dear Vice President, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, the report on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December is, in my opinion, a document which clearly stated the fulfilment of the rights of Croatian defenders, in accordance with the applicable Law during that period during 2004. The making of the Report itself is a very extensive and serious job for which Minister Jadranka Kosor and all those who worked to collect and process data deserve praise and congratulations. The report was made up of the chapters with the corresponding tables, so it is simple to determine to what extent the Law on Croatian Defences was implemented in 2004, which is best seen in the report by the audit that has no objections to the work of the ministry. I want to look back at a few of the most important indicators in the report itself, since there has been a lot of talk about the report. The report shows the implementation of the legal obligation of Article 46(2) of which Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War with physical damage 100% of the first group have the right to a personal car every 7 years. This right is achieved by 137 Croatian first group wartime disableds, and it should be stressed that the Ministry of Defence, acting under the Public Procurement Act, carried out the legal obligation, and 14 Croatian military disabled persons in 2004 used the right to be granted a personal car. As for housing in 2004, a thousand and 198 housing claims were resolved, reducing the number of outstanding claims by almost 12 and a half percent compared to 2003. The government's decision of January 2004 reduced the sale price of apartments by 30%, one significant amount, for apartments built in the area of special state care and apartments built in settlements of less than 10,000 inhabitants. Also, the government's decision of 11 November 2004 on the exceptional acquisition of apartments for the needs of the victims of the Homeland War totals 138 apartments from the POS programme were purchased. and from this is actually the visible wish of the Ministry of Defence and of the Croatian Government for a quick solution to the housing care of the victims of the Homeland War and members of their families. In 2004, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity also launched a project to address accessibility for persons with disabilities, allowing them to be accessible to homes of health, centres for social care, kindergartens, city administrations and other important facilities. I would especially like to highlight two amendments to the Law in 2004. In February 4th, articles of the 94-95 law have also been abolished, with rights denied to Croatian defenders in the service of prison sentences. Articles 135, 136, 137, 138 and 139 of the so-called commitment were abolished on 8 April 2004. The translation or revision of all previously acquired rights, which, in fact, ended the shameful audit and the musing of defenders who had to prove their status in an extremely humiliating way. In 2004, part of the debt created by non-compliance with the translation of pensions under the original law was also paid, and on 19 March 2004, the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund was established and the status and rule on criteria for the selection of society was adopted, and the Croatian Assembly adopted the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their family. In 2004, several government decisions were made that matter. Among others, the decision to change the terms of credit under the credit programme for the employment of developed Croatian defenders, which has set a reprogramme of credit and an extension of the repayment period to 20 years, starting at 5 years without interest. In particular, I would like to commend the professional training and employment programme, which has been extended for three more measures, and this encourages the development of cooperatives, and then subsidising 2% interest on entrepreneurial loans that are employed by defenders. Thirdly, the grant of financial support to entrepreneurs who expand the activity and employment of defenders. Well, these measures have yielded results and this is evident because the number of unemployed defenders has been reduced compared to 2003 by 7%. There is also an increased concern for PTSD defenders, as on 16 January 2004, the Regulation on the determination of the percentage of physical damage, thus abolishing the embarrassing mandatory application of the completion of the MP2 questionnaire in the process of obtaining Croatian wartime disabled persons, based on the diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. Finally, I hold the most important for Croatian defenders in 2004 the adoption of a new Law on Croatian Defences, which was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and Representatives of Defence Associations, which ceased to apply that 2001 Law, which, in my opinion, was to be called the Law on the Reduction and Abuse of the Rights of Croatian Defence Advocates, which was implemented by then Minister Ivica Pančić. But I would comment on it like this, what a defender, such a minister, such a minister, such a law, so you...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44763	I ask you to refrain from personal calling who the defense attorney was. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44764	Mr. Culjak, I see you and I'm happy to be normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44765	Correction of an incorrect quote, he didn't say you were unhappy when you saw him. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44766	Look at you and what you've done with the Vinkovci, the crime and the mafia rule, but that's very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44767	Dear Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44768	But here, sir, so my God, I wanted today...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44769	Please, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44770	... reallybeunvolent, but it seems to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44771	But correct an incorrect quote, I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44772	Here, the gentleman says that the former law was a law on the reduction of rights. So why did you overwrite it at 90%? Also, the gentleman says this report is transparent in chapters, and I'm saying that you sir haven't read it at all. Because let's take page 60, so he says, chapter 60, page 60, please open: "Advantage in enrolment in educational institutions and the right to scholarship." There are no college applications and no scholarship reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44773	Thank you. Time's up. The word has a esteemed representative, Ivan Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44774	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister and Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. from the Government, fellow Members and colleagues. I will try to explain to my brief presentation why the leading diagnosis is the cause of PTSD disability. Because I think it's as part of the Homeland War that I've seen the problems of these defenders, and I've also been treating, so I have the right to say a few words about it. So I'm asking myself, is the percentage of 59.22% in the processed sample that you showed us, is it too high and I'm giving my opinion. Look, when an individual enters into it an unknown situation he inevitably on the way of his adaptation goes through secrets... Disorientation. [[You don't understand.]] I remember, too, when I went out to the brigade that I was full of confusion. But that confusion may be a normal reaction, and it seems to me that she was normal, but if she's overstepping, then she becomes a mental disorder. And now, in this unfortunate situation, there's this stressful event that I want to talk about, which is PTSD. The reaction to this event involves intense fear, a sense of helplessness and horror. So it occurs right after the trauma, after a stressful event even though mental problems can occur many years after the trauma, it is now beginning to obstruct with a 30-year-old data. But the most important thing is that the defender is psychologically suffering, because he has unwanted memories of this trauma and he starts acting like this event is happening again and... The reaction of excessive fear leads to depression with a strong sense of shame, impotence, and often leads to the suicide the minister was talking about, but I want to avoid it entirely. [[You don't understand.]] And that's how personal dramas are created and families are destroyed. How? The defender comes from the battlefield with signs of PTSD and the family doesn't understand him. The family sees something happening, sees that the returnee is emotionally sensitive, irritable, and impulsive. And he's actually asking that his surroundings accept him. But while he was on the battlefield and the family was living in hardships and sufferings and he also expects comfort, understanding and protection and now in this expectation of support from both sides of the war neither side is coming to an understanding and now is enough small enough, better to say one spark to come into the family to conflict and now they are all sick and no one is more like before the war and I am no longer the same as I was before the war, not only physically but also mentally. And now to resume and reach a conclusion. That percentage of 59.22% based on my thinking is not too high. It is estimated that the number of persons directly affected by the war in Croatia, Madam Minister, is estimated to be about a million so that your number, whatever you are about to indicate, is not too high. He tried to find in literature studies, which show that 40 to 70% of those exposed to trauma or were forced to leave the hearth and became refugees, developed PTSD and 15% of the depressed unfortunately committed suicide. So I have to deal with prevention, and I point out that famous saying by Mr. Davison "a gram of prevention often applies as a kilo of therapy". That's why I'm pleased to see you, Madam Minister, to visit the Health and Social Services Reference Center at Dubrava Hospital, I think you were there at the 8th month... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I've been there these days too, and I need to point out the extremely valuable people who work at that psychotraum center, and we should work on getting that center as close as we can to the defenders. And in the end, I'm telling you. Every participant in the Homeland War came out of it with mental scars to a greater or smaller extent, and that is why we must treat the defenders as friends and not allow them to give them new wounds, because the wound your friend is never able to heal. And when I read your report, I get the feeling that it was done by moral people, and that's why I accept your report not only by quantity but also by quality, because often quantity doesn't lead to quality. However, your report has just been done in quality, with one remark. If only I was afraid of that old Jewish saying, "if I kept proving that I was right, I might be guilty." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44775	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister, sir of the Ministry. So here we have heard a lot about this report today, but in the beginning I will point out that there is a very extensive, comprehensive and truly detailed report in front of us, and the introduction can already read what rights have been achieved in 2004. Last year it was indeed a year we could call it, the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, because even twice in the same year, many rights were returned, especially when a brand new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders came into force. In addition to a series of rights processed in this report, housing has been heard here today, one of the most significant. No matter how much trouble there is, we have to find out that 1198 requests have been solved, it's not a little. That the price of the apartment is down 30%, which is extremely good. In cities with more than 20,000 inhabitants and in special state care, it is impossible to mention the government decision of the Republic of Croatia this year on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of "Storm" which, by its decision in areas of special state care, made a decision to assign housing and houses to defenders. This has certainly caused great praise in at least the area I live in. The right of children of Croatian defenders to take advantage of enrolment in educational institutions has been mentioned so many times. It seems to me that it was right at this point that it wanted to be politicized. Nothing happened that was not resolved in the course of enrolment in educational institutions or in colleges, and in some environments even tried to discriminate these students, these children and show that they were the worst, and they took the place of good, excellent students and students. For example, my county and my city, I will tell you that compared to last year's enrolment, and this will be seen in the 2005 report, all 47 students are enrolled more than for the previous period under the law of this advantage and students mostly in technical schools, so not in high school or in some schools that we would call schools in which they needed a very high percentage of points, and these students had a threshold. Also, a large number of children took advantage of the rights to free textbooks last year, i.e. for a new school year, which is extremely important. One of the important measures in terms of employment, which I particularly welcome the ministers in particular, is the measure for which I also asked you a parliamentary question at the last session, which is to encourage the establishment of Croatian defence cooperatives. Because in front of Sisak, in a small town, Crnac was founded such a defence association where defenders joined together, and almost I would say the whole place is the place of Croatian defenders where fruits and vegetables are produced. They are extremely active, and for example, which you have stated today, that I do not repeat those cooperatives in the Long Reza and the Rab cooperatives that work together on the placement of their products in tourism should be seen, in a way and the foundation and foothold for opening and further cooperatives. And here, in the end, the most important thing it marked in 2004 is the adoption of a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which came into force at the beginning of this year. And I hope that the 2005 report will be even more comprehensive and we will see only then what are the real rights that the Croatian defenders have achieved by adopting this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44777	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44778	Here's an esteemed colleague who said some data, so let me just fill in, so it doesn't turn out like years ago, that's not what you said, but some of your colleagues did earlier. That nothing was done for Croatian defenders. So you said correctly that in 2004, it was divided which apartments, which loans about a thousand and 200, but in 2003, 2,000 and 100 were divided. And when you talk about politicizing child enrolment in college, I didn't think it was a good solution. That these children should be helped through the scholarship, primarily in this way to those who enroll, but that this is not a good solution. But since we've already come to that, we need to find a solution. But where's the problem? It's not a problem with you, it's not a problem here, but it looks like the problem is in the government that can't agree with itself. So Minister Primorac today in "Free Dalmatia" while the defence ministry says no changes are being prepared, Minister Primorac says we need other solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44779	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, well-respected fellow Pancic. You were first of all correcting my incorrect allegations or my opinion, what I thought or didn't mean. And that, Mr. Primorac, is certainly right, like you and I, to his opinion. He gave his opinion, and I believe that the government will give a good answer after this year and analyze what happened on the enrolment and find, as you say, a solution to the next scientific, or enrolment year of college. But you can see that college class is on its way. Some colleges may have used that right so they prefer to show how it is now. The other day on TV, I watched the inability to start teaching, but believe me, I'll tell you. He's got colleges, and I have reliable information, and when they type students for personal needs and pay, then there's enough space in colleges. I'm not saying it's in all colleges, but there are good examples like that. And in this case, it was intended to point out that this was not a good example. Everything is subject to change, and perhaps this legislative provision, and commenting on the opinion of Minister Primorac at this point would not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44781	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44782	Dear colleague Roxandich. When you spoke about this, many of us, but not just here, but from the profession, the controversial provisions regarding privileged enrolment of disabled children and volunteers wanted to reciprocate the actual importance of the provision. So you said how many, for example, children with disabilities in your county used that rule. I'd like to say that the problem, and not knowing about your discussion that you had with your colleague Pancic earlier, is that it's not just a matter of how many students are increased quotas. For example, the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb increased quotas by almost 30%. So, over what should have been written down. The problem is that this is the first year unanimously here in the Croatian Parliament of the adopted implementation of the Bologna Process which guarantees students studying in groups, for example, less than 10 students. According to seminar 10 to 15, which guarantees 25 to 30 students per professor. By exceeding the number of students per year, I'm not saying that anyone is well-taken because the number of disabled children has been extended that quota. The implementation of the reform process, i.e. the Bologna Process at the university, has been significantly disabled, as many deans are also panickingly warning. This has also been accompanied by a demand for a number of increased costs, which are measured in several million kunas, which have been made from universities and individual universities to the Ministry of Science, for which there is no money in the state budget. For example, the Faculty of Philosophy by 26% of the number of students asked for almost 9 and a half million kuna. So I'm asking, if we're gonna be responsible legislators, I say we can get along, not agree. You as a majority have the right to make a decision, but then you had to rebalance that sufficient number of money and provide such a employment policy that would allow such a university staff to accompany that increased number of students. So no provision is to be relativated, it has its rather important consequences that don't allow us to engage with them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44783	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44784	Oh, there you go, dear colleague Lugaric. So you wouldn't think that I, as she said, relativated that information. No, I didn't mean to say that we didn't get involved and that it couldn't be included in the Bologna Process, it was just a college organization thing. If it had caused difficulties, I didn't say it didn't cause college difficulties. But the fact that an organisational, some kind of college structure can be improved a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44785	Thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to say for a little bit about, since he's here right now, let us in the government agree on this alleged problem of enrolling children. I'm sorry that somehow, here we are, when we talk about enrolling children of volunteers, about enrolling children of the dead Croatian defenders, children of disabled people, then there are problems immediately. I'm mentioning one more time, reminding you that those kids didn't just sign up. I remind you of the headlines in the "Cosor's Privileges for Unknowledge" newspaper. So that's offensive. You know that many defenders and defense associations have responded because they are not privileges and are not privileges for ignorant people. It is the ignorant who do not know what conditions these children have lived in all these years while their fathers were on the battlefield, while their fathers were returning full of trauma, which we had just heard about. And these are indeed the ignorant. And as for the position of the Government and the Ministry of Science, I will now read to you from word to word the indication of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports since 17 September 2004 concerning the Bill of Law, that is, the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. "The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has received the draft bill on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and gives the following opinion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law requires that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of the deathless Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, Croatian wartime people with disabilities from the Homeland War and children of Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War, volunteers and children of volunteers from the Homeland War have the right to scholarship during regular high school education, regular undergraduate studies, the right to compensation for part of the cost of tuition, postgraduate studies at higher schools, if they need it excessively if they need regular incomes per month per household member of double the amount of censorship referred to in Article 88(1) of the Law. With regard to the above, we propose to delete the words if they need them too much, since it is not sufficient conditions for the exercise of the right to scholarship. Since the same provision for the exercise of the right to grant is laid down that regular income per household member may not exceed the double amount of censorship prescribed in Article 88(1). The proposal for a law of opinion is that the terms of the property census are sufficient to determine whether the scholarship is a person referred to in Article 54(1). A bill of law is absolutely necessary. The other provisions of the draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, have no objections from their own part." Therefore, as you can see, the only objection made by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was to the provisions on scholarships, and this part of which is being re-run in the assembly here today, the Ministry of Science, the competent Ministry has not had a single remark. Also, since the Law was passed publicly, that the law was discussed publicly, in two readings, no one from any university, no one from any institution, no professor, no rector came forward and pointed out a problem that would eventually arise when the law was passed. Therefore, I ask that this fact be taken into account and that these provisions of the Law cease to be manipulated and politicised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44787	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44788	The correction of only one incorrect allegation by the respected Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister, so who said that this proposal was not about privileges conditionally spoken for ignorants by saying that all children of disabled people and volunteers should have passed the electoral, or... threshold. The fact is that most of the colleges had a threshold set at about 200 to 250 points of a thousand points in total, and that, on a regular basis, students were able to enroll in most of the colleges if more than 600 or 700 points were collected on a classed exam and on the basis of high school points. If you look at the rankings on most of the colleges published on the Internet, so it's verifiable, so I'm not as ignorant as I'm trying to say that most of these kids have collected barely 300, 400, 500 points with all due respect to those children who are enrolled normally. And here when I talk about children who have acquired all the conditions for enrolment, I ask again what is the question of those who were born a year earlier and are now studying a second or third year, which, for example, pays for the study because there is a law vote on them a year too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44789	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. A few months ago, more precisely during the 10th anniversary of "Storm" the Government of the Republic of Croatia donated 17 thousand objects in agreement with all associations, that properties in areas of special state care are donated to permanent ownership of defenders. The government's decision came to the satisfaction and gratitude of Croatian defenders, the Ministry of Family and Defence and gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thanks to Croatian Prime Minister Dr. Evey Sanader and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family and Defence Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. This is a very nice gesture by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the housing of that category of defenders, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the brilliant Liberation Action "Storm" and the celebration of the day of the victory of "Domovinski Gratitude". The ministry has carried out a series of measures to hire in the form of help in the house. These measures employ about 300 persons of the social category, and in addition to that in homes of the sick and powerless each week, knocks on the door of 7 thousand and 500 families or users, mentioned categories. And all needs of the same week are met, whether it's a purchase of groceries, transportation to a health care home or hospital checkup, raising medicines, bringing wood, cleaning the house or apartment, etc. When we multiply that every... host of 325 users serves. That's 7.5 thousand, that's not a small number. I would like to add these measures and measures to the recruitment of Croatian defenders through the establishment of cooperatives, where a full hit was reached. Defence cooperatives acting in the form of incentives are funded by the Ministry of Defence, so far the experience of cooperatives is very positive, and cooperatives help to establish other cooperatives with already acquired experience. On this day with better words of assistance from the ministry and cooperatives, the defenders of Vukovar, better said from Trpinska cesta, will open a cooperative in the suburban settlement of Lipovac, and the cooperative will open the vice-president of the Croatian Government and the minister of family and defenders of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, it is also Madam Vice-President's call, and I would like to extend one more call to you colleagues and colleagues and to all defence associations that on 16 October in Vukovar the day of the death of the legendary commander of the defence of Major General Zadar Blaga, so I invite you all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44791	Thank you for calling. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Excuse me. That's true. Replica is a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44792	Dear Mr. Vice President, Honorable counterpart Mlinaric spoke about this Regulation that the government adopted before 5 August this year, is not exactly such a situation that everyone is too excited about the fact that this applies only to those families of Croatian wartime wartime people, Croatian defenders who have not already set out to resolve their housing issues through APN and this assignment. Namely, this does not apply to them, meaning the one who previously directed the APN Croatian Military Disabilities must continue to pay off as it was contracted, unlike others, so that these defenders are placed in an unequal position compared to Croatian defenders and family members who have not tried to solve that part at all. So it's not exactly how you say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44793	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44794	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Don't fuck with me, I did. To your surprise, you're mine. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. This is the report that we are discussing from 9 a.m. to 30 minutes this morning, unfortunately I can conclude something, which is that every item of the agenda is approached from one side of the page, the other side on the other side we try to politicise without seeing that every item of the agenda that is important before us but there is something that can be put into our speciality and our debate on such points should just be a report on the rights of Croatian defenders. If it hadn't been for the Croatian defenders, this side, or you who you say are ours, I say that both of you, that we wouldn't be sitting in the Croatian Parliament today. Perhaps some would be lucky to be representatives not of the Croatian Parliament but of the Federal Assembly. However, with great respect for those who brought us to the Croatian Parliament, I would not even like to compare this report with the report in 2003, 2002, 2000 and 2001, and not for the miracle of the year 1999 or 1998, or from the very beginning of the law when the Law on Croatian defenders adopted in the Croatian Parliament came into force. You know why? Because today is not about privileges, it's about rights. I would not like to compare this report with those first reports if, then this point would lead me to the university of Croatian defenders this year in Croatia not only in the history of 1990 but before 1990, so let's see whose children were entitled to enrolment, scholarships, students' and dorms, etc. Don't give God that comparison. Let's talk about something that this report on 83 pages is made, as we say today, unprofessionally. If it is unprofessional but it is done on real facts, on what was done in 2004 and God has given it that in 2005 what I fully hope will be this report for 2005, I will not say better than that it will be richer in the execution of what we today owe to Croatian defenders as you said to Mrs. Minister in the opening speech not only the Croatian Ministry of Defence, not only here in the Croatian Parliament but the entire Croatian society is obliged to those who created an independent and sovereign state of Croatia. In short, although it has been repeated here several times, the truth we changed in 2004 twice the law, it is known why we changed it, in the hope that this law is better. And it's better, and it's been proven to be better than it was in 2003. In this way, Croatian defenders, against the law of 2001, were punished twice. Then a second amendment was made on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which was related to the so-called so-called Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. translation procedure. Well, gentlemen, on one side and on the other, was this procedure proud of us or the shame of all of us? The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last year reduced the price of purchases of dwellings in areas of special state interest or special state care by 30% and in towns with less than ten thousand inhabitants if we want the whole state to live then this is also one way for the whole of Croatia to live the lives of people and not to be a wasteland. The price of the apartment has been reduced by 30% in areas of special state care and in cities or cities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. Next, the 100% disabled first group who had an unresolved issue of care until last year, it happened in 2004 that we had resolved the rights of those who were the guardians of these hundred-percent people of the Homeland War as it is everywhere in the civilized world. The program of the treatment of Croatian defenders, and here you listed several spas in the hope that this programme will continue to improve but must be improved in order for the Croatian defender to experience what, I repeat, he deserved. In 2004, ladies and gentlemen, namely pensions, Croatian defenders' pension rights was paid back from 1997 and the translation of pensions under the 2001 law from 1 July to 31 December 2004. Then, as far as housing is concerned, the total number of outstanding demands by Croatian wartime disableds for housing care reduction by almost 13%, the fellow representatives from the party whose members are major builders today did not get jobs in 2004 from what they hoped for. However, when spoken here and especially today, I am pleased that a great effort has been made in all the eshumation affairs here ahead of the day of all the saints is not exactly pathetic but it is a reality in the hope that every mother will soon be able to come to the grave of her son and not on the Day of all the saints she will think again where are the bones of my defender, or of my son, or of my only child. That's a lot of effort. I congratulate you on the hope that this number will come one day to what every Croatian defender deserves, or that we will find each and every one of them and mark the least of his graves. However, if I were to continue to list what happened to her in 2004 it would take me another ten minutes, but I will end up with what you are today and I will repeat what you said today. We must all think about the rights of Croatian defenders not only to remain a letter on paper but to be realised as it began to be well realized in 2004. And finally, Mr. Pancic, you said yourself we won't talk, we won't politicize. And today you tried to politicize a few times, but you mentioned an action plan. Mr Pancicu, your party's action plan lasted fifty years with the fate of the Croatian people in the country and eviction. And Mr. Stazic. Invalidity is neither punishment nor the preaching of the Gospel nor of all things. Neither John nor St. Matthew, nor insult us believers. It would be the same if I now began to interpret the programming principles of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44795	Three replicas. Honourable representative Plasimir Mršić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44796	Dear colleague Babic-Petricevic. I really don't know why you need to share us in ours and yours and to reckon yours with ours or ours. I am the Croatian defender, Mrs Babic-Petricevic, and there is no need for anyone to speak for me. I am a representative of the citizens of Croatia in this Assembly of all of my constituency, from my city. Therefore, there is no need for you to divide us, or forge us, or forsaking us. But since you're already talking about someone politicizing this subject, it's certainly not this side as you would say, because it turns out that by 2004, so until December 2003, it was a general flood. And then the ark didn't come and save it all, but one big cruise came. Because in 2004, it was made in a general flood, so it's a miracle. It is impossible in 2004 that from December 2,1003 to the end of 2004, land purchases, designs, tendering, housing and awarding 1200 apartments in 2004. It's probably someone who's been doing.../The speaker's been shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44797	Okay. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44798	Mr. President, first of all, I have to say something, and that's Mr. Mršić, if nothing else, on the other hand, he's mine because he came from Imotsky. Second. A fellow in the second row, I will not name him, lest he be offended, said ours and yours, I said, you are mine. Third. It was you who wanted to politicise what was being politicized that you couldn't and you said in 2004 what was done. Now I'm going to politicize. All injustices committed in the coalition government are not enough to correct Madam Minister in two years, we will need another mandate, if God is to trust us with the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44799	Okay. Honorable representative Ivica Pancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44800	If God does, he probably won't! I don't know why she's nervous. You're implementing an action plan, you've extradited eight Croatian generals to The Hague in 2001, calling this government a high treason because she's been working with this Hague, and now you're hunting Gotovina all over the world. And what now. And it's our fault again. I'd like you to look in your own backyard. And even one HVIDR now, along with the United States, is organising a standoff with Serbs and Bosnia and Herzegovina how to co-operate with The Hague, so be serious. And this action plan I've spent 50 years I've never been a member of the Communist alliance, so tell it to your members of the Communist alliance that ran in the '90s into your ranks and probably did the greatest evil. But that's your problem. And I ask a question in your debate, I agree, there are none of ours or yours but we happen to sit together on the Committee on Immigration, nor, I followed you closely, not a single word did you mention the Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Defence Council. Whose are they now? Looks like someone else's. Why? Because this government, because Sanader, Mrs. Kosor, told you, don't ask those questions because there's no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44801	Okay. The answer to the replica, and I appeal to all MPs to stick to these topics, not to come out of topics that are not related to... Report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reply to the replica of the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44802	... about the Croatian Defence Council, because you yourself know when the Law was passed, for the first time in this Law read article 165, which it means. [[Specially enabled.]] The agreement is prepared, not dependent on me, on one government and another when the agreement will be realised in the hope that this will happen as soon as possible because members of the Croatian Defence Council deserve it, that would be the first. Second. About the action plan, about the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community, about the departure of 10 people to the Den Hague. Mr. Croatian Democratic Community then under the leadership of Dr. Franjo Tudjman led a responsible policy, today led by Dr. Eve Sanader. Third. If I were to mention ours or yours, I'd say something, maybe because of my long tongue, I don't know how to hate because that's how my mother raised me. I don't have time to answer another part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44803	The Honorable Representative of the Nenad Stazic Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44804	Mrs. Babic, Petricevic, you do not pollemize with me, you semi-limize with the text of the gospel. In all four Gospels describing how Jesus healed the sick, they were usually disabled, blind, immobilized, deaf, taken away, etc. He told everyone after he was healed, your sins were forgiven. Go and don't make any more mistakes. That logically concludes that the disability he welcomed was a certain punishment for some former sin. I've forgiven you, your sins have been forgiven so far, you've never seen before, and now that your sins are forgiven, you see. It's a matter of logic and knowledge of Bible text. I'm surprised to you that you know so little about the Bible text, so I suggest you study it once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44805	Amen! Dear MPs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44806	Sir, I'm going to run. We're sorry, sir, because he doesn't know what he's doing or what he's saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44807	Very envious, theological debates, knowledge of the Gospels, commands of God. Honorable representative Irena Ahel, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44808	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families shows that the provisions of the laws relating to the rights of defenders across all ministries are being implemented for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2004. The resolution ministry, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has done a great deal to improve the quality and conditions of life of Croatian defenders and all provisions have been implemented and all obligations arising from the law are met, which also confirms the unconditional review report. From a series of activities that the Ministry has done in the past year, I will look only at some that I consider most important, which is primarily the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 30 November 2004. Also on 4 June 2004, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families was passed. In January last year, the government decided to amend and supplement the Decision on the availability of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia for the care of the family of the dead Croatian defender and Croatian wartime invalid, which reduced the sale price of the apartment by 30% for apartments in areas of special state care and housing built in settlements of less than 10,000 inhabitants. It should also be pointed out that last year, the regulation on the determination of the percentage of damage to the bodies of the Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War, which abolished the embarrassing mandatory application of the MMPI2 questionnaire in the process of obtaining a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, is based on the diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. These changes make it important to change the status and position of defenders and members of their families. Furthermore, on 11 November 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the exceptional acquisition of apartments for the purpose of providing housing for the victims of the Homeland War, which bought a total of 138 apartments from the POSA programme totalling 52 million 994 thousand and 703 kuna. Last year, a total of 1198 requests from Croatian wartime wartime people for residential care were resolved, reducing the number of outstanding claims by 12.48% compared to the period 2003. During the period covered by this report, part of the debt created by disrespecting implementation, the translation of pensions of retired Croatian defenders under the original Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was paid. The debt was paid in full for 1997 and for the period 1.7 to 31.12.2004. The total amount is approximately 112 million kuna. In 2004, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity initiated a project to address accessibility to facilities, persons with disabilities. For the first time with 9 Croatian cities, a contract was concluded on co-financing of accessibility facilities of importance for disabled persons. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity concluded contracts for the provision of medical rehabilitation services to Croatian military disabled people, thus allowing them additional treatment. It is also pointed out that on 11 June 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to amend the terms of credit under a credit programme for the recruitment of developed Croatian military members, which was approved by the credit reprogramme by 20 years, including a start of 5 years without interest. Such examples could be cited for a very long time. And I believe that the debate on this report is too important and that it is necessary to bring in a little bit of seriousness in all of this, and not that as representatives, we are discussing those who have defended us from aggression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44809	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Working Group has consensually adopted a draft declaration concerning the law passed by the Slovenian Parliament and I am calling for an extended session of the Presidency at 5:00 in the same place where the previous session was held that the extended Presidency of the Parliament, therefore with the presidents or representatives of the clubs, may consider this draft declaration so that we can distribute it if we agree and tomorrow at half 11 the club presidents or representatives of the clubs could be shown on this proposal. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44810	Thank you, Mr. President. I would look back because a lot of things have been said today and there is no need to repeat myself I would only refer to the section of the law of enrollment of children of Croatian defenders to universities otherwise, educational institutions. I believe that it is significant and actually important and because of that and because I see that in public, and also here is one, a high degree of division on this issue. Given that in Croatia we have a very small percentage, that we have a very small percentage of highly educated people and that we are already here if God gives the threshold of the European Community. I think it's very important that every new student who can come, or any person who can finish higher education next day, does so and does so in order to actually achieve greater economic development with more knowledge and to actually make greater progress in this one vicious circle. Critics of this right and law, they emphasize three elements and by them, for them it is not a good decision. One of them is a decline in the quality of studies. The second is justice, and I would say the availability of those who are enrolled and the third allegedly limited capacity. I'm in the meantime, I've talked to several professors with whom I have contact and I've clearly shared my position, an opinion on this problem, and I'm actually going to say one thing, one attitude that goes counter to this now, let's say in public, and that's not, it's not for this decision. When it comes to decline and quality in our studies, studies are listed as defaulting, part-time work as the basic reason why the drop in quality in studies is the same as I would not say the fall, but why is it not the quality of what we want? When it comes to the fairness and availability of studies or enrolment, then it is clear and always to say that all students go to the reception, all of them are accepted and only those who cross the threshold are entered. Therefore, those who have not entered, who have not crossed the threshold, cannot be entered whether they are the children of the defender or not. On the other hand, we've been through a little bit in public as if the defense kids themselves didn't cross the threshold, and they're not good in themselves. I think it's really freakish and freakish and let's stay away from that one. When it comes to capacity constraints which, as far as space is concerned, people and so on, we need to know that in some studies, in some universities such as Law and Economy, there is one large quota of students enrolled on the basis of so-called. special needs. But they're not defense kids. But these are the special needs that colleges have to make, not just to make, but to make some money. And that money when it's earned, it's not going to be spent on opening up a new job at that university or university, it's being spent the way it's being spent. I wouldn't discuss it at all how and in any way, but anyway, whatever it is, it's not a more important question than who I'm talking about. So now we need to talk eventually about the variant. If this variant is in the studies of those whom I mentioned and the method of enrolment from so-called. A special need that is completely uncontrollable and that is what it is. If it is also legal then if something needs to be changed then it should change that legal need. So in today's interview you saw, which was given by Mr. Minister. I don't know, I didn't talk to him, but when he mentioned other solutions, perhaps Mr. Secretary meant such solutions. Therefore, I do not give up, nor do I think that rights should be waived, the rights of this Law which have been adopted and which have been adopted because I believe that it will cause incentives for young people, for young people to get as high as possible, for the number of people to study to achieve what I said earlier, for more knowledge that will later start Croatia and produce greater economic effects. As far as the debate is concerned, I would only refer to one thing because it concerns me, and that is this part of Mr Pancic you mentioned earlier when you said it, and this report also refers to this report and I am not, I am not speaking beyond the subject, and this report refers to the rights of the members of the Croatian Defence Council. You know what you just said isn't really true. You said we were told not to ask such questions because there was no money. Well, proof that it's not like that, that's not how it is that I asked that question on "The current clock" here and nobody told me not to ask that question. In fact, I got the answer that the task force is working on preparing that document and that already, I don't know how much I already know how much I've done, did and that this agreement will be signed. There's so much and that's my contribution to this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44811	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First, a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44812	Well, I would really like to demystify this problem of enrolling freshmen in the first year of the children of the defender, or the victim of the Homeland War. Okay, we can talk about whether the criteria must be what they are, whether they can be entered by all those who have crossed the threshold or not. It's one problem, and it's obvious that it's so that we realized that not all aspects of the law were seen when the law was passed. Today, however, we have another problem. It's that colleges asked for an increase in quotas, that the ministry didn't approve them, that he had now enrolled in colleges 20 to 30%, depending on college to college, that now the University doesn't get an increase in budget for this year's rebalancing, and the budget projection for next year won't follow those needs for colleges that, where they are, therefore, created a single problem. It's not a problem for freshmen to sign up. The problem is that the Ministry of Science and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not adequately follow the financial means in order to enable further employment of scientific recruits, assistants and professors, in order to rent additional premises, so that, because we have a double problem, on the one hand, Bologna has told us that there must be better conditions for studying, so fewer groups, more teachers, fewer students per group and on the other hand we have a quota transfer of 20% to 30%. If we have that problem, then the ministry needs to answer. And secondly, there are no special needs of colleagues in colleges, but personal needs, that's the part that is part of regular students, which the ministry does not pay for education, but pays for their parents or gets a scholarship from some other groups. It would be good for the ministry to share those quotas and say that the university can enroll students, all students who are willing to pay for education, and have passed the classed procedure, have crossed the threshold. Therefore, not only are the children of the defenders, but everyone who wants to be educated, because our goal is to have 40% of the highly educated in the structure of the population. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Science did not allow any quota to increase in this academic year that is just beginning these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44813	Okay, thank you. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44814	Well, it's these personal needs, colleague Mladz, that's what I called, calling special needs. Therefore, if these are regular or, I don’t know, regular enrolment, this has the right to be called “special enrolment. ” So, be it personal, be it these, be it them. And now I'm going to tell you, so that voice of self-criticism from the academic community that says, they say like this, that they were looking for, we were looking for an extension of quotas to meet exactly these particular needs, special, I call them special, to soak some money, just a little bit, so that at the same time these same teachers would do God's work, now listen to me, and then part time, especially at high school, just a little bit, and don't realize their norm hours. Therefore, this is inadmissible and needs to be taken care of. So I'm going to conclude, this demand to increase the quotas of these academic community people claim it's at the expense of what I'm talking about, and it needs to be controlled and monitored and changed and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44815	Thank you. Second replica, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44816	My colleague Bagariæ, I don't know what you call it, but otherwise there is a big difference between people with special needs and personal needs in the study, it's those who pay for the study themselves. That's what clarity does. Secondly, none of us have anything against, I specifically, studying in this country as many young people as possible, it's the only happiness for this country. But don't claim there's no privilege because they passed the class exam. Well, if there's no privilege because they passed the class exam so they'd sign it anyway, so if you changed the law, they'd sign in anyway. It seems to me, too, to me, look, it was last year when a prodigal in Rijeka at the medical school enrolled such a genius with bad grades, so when a public scandal broke out, then this extraordinary enrollment of that, perhaps with special needs, had to be annulled. Now you are, because you couldn't possibly sign it, now you've passed the law to enroll everyone, so now he's going to be able to sign in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44817	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44818	Thank you, Mr. President. But really this thread of yours fits, that is, the thread of the replica really requires that I tell you that the gentleman has not spoken to any of those of you who have said that he is not wrong anymore, but only once, and that is Magdalen. He told these others that faith saves them. So believe me, believe in both the system and the country, don't have so much doubt about all this and express yourself in this way in which you stand out and don't believe in anything. However, I have to answer you to this first part, which is that you listed how I said that they all passed the classified exam. No, it makes sense that everyone will pass the class exam, but I said they all had to cross the threshold. Therefore, they would not be enrolled, so a bad student cannot cross the threshold. Therefore, if there is already a threshold there, which is, and if they have crossed it and are still children of the defender, then thank God. Welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44819	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44820	If anything, at least we've been able to open up a debate about HVO. You say the task force works. I have no doubt it works. I've been on the Veterans Committee and the Immigration Committee several times. Please tell me I'm wrong, tell me I'm telling the truth. It was said: "The agreement on the care of members of the Croatian Defence Council will be completed in the 6th month 2004." Then we came to the 7th month, and the autumn came, and it was said: “No, the agreement will be over on Christmas 2004, ” means the end of 2004. In the spring, HVIDRA representative Herceg Bosnia said the agreement was ready, it was signed, it was initialled, and I'm just asking why the report didn't put forward what was done last year and why we didn't see the agreement even though it was six months ago. Come on, please, government representatives, tell me I have no right. [[You don't have one.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44821	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44822	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pancic, I thank you too because you are a regular first to these committees, frankly, I thank you and I can see that you have nothing against the HVO victims getting what they belong to. So, thank you very much. However, I invite you, really, to be a little bit more careful with these statements because of this, thank God this isn't broadcast by television, so it won't, this debate of yours won't cause any confusion in people down there, and it would actually cause them to hear it. But you need to know one thing, just a little bit, you're saying what you're saying out of pure ignorance, I mean, not having information. Personally, as a member and as an HVO, it doesn't matter to me whether this agreement or whether it could have been two, three, five months ago or not, I don't know when it's over. It is important that it be signed by the end of this year when those rights are being begun. So, this second part so far, as far as it's been going on, whether it's agreed or not, if the victims of the HVO and the representatives of the government are satisfied, so are you. And if it's done within what they expect down there, and they know about it and they're satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44823	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, here I am not going to go about education, I will, as usual, take care of the housing. A little more, a few more data, one piece of it I already said this morning. So what's in my report, and I'm just gonna concentrate on the report. There is no information in the report on the number of loans granted for the purchase of an apartment in its own organisation and on the allocation of loans for the purchase of an apartment in organised construction. I didn't see that distinction. You can correct me later. That would in a certain way allow for better quality implementation of the housing programme in this organised construction. I'd like to do a comparative here, because I took out a report from 2003, so your report, which says on page 24, says, "According to the order in the reporting period," which is 2003. "resolved 2,112 requests for an apartment or a loan" is our page 24. On page 28 of the 2004 report, it reads: "According to the order set in the reporting period 1,198 applications for the award of flats and loans were resolved". These numbers show that in 2004, it was resolved in half, approximately 2003. I find it completely unclear on which and how to access organised construction, i.e. whether the ministry has carried out activities on the basis of which it decides where organised construction will be carried out, because building a residential building rather than having an accurate record of the need for a specific location, i.e. the victim's interest to want the assigned housing credit used for the purchase of an apartment in organised construction at a specific location is a complete failure. Here I also took out some information on the total care, the housing of the victims of the Homeland War, through the assignment of apartments, so building apartments, was by buying apartments, so I would tell you that 2,044 apartments were built and purchased for the period from 1.1.97 to 1.1.2000. From 1.1.2000 to 1.1.2003, 3,975 apartments were built, meaning only a thousand apartments over the same three years. In total, this is 5.119 apartments. I'd tell you next about what we talked about in the morning about who inherited what. We inherited 150 buildings in 2000 for cca apartments without a building permit. According to your report, it was left to you as a new government at the end of 2003. 1.118 apartments in construction. I'd like to comment on something else. I welcome in principle a new model of housing, and I would very much like to see it go more and more towards a credit solution to this issue, so by giving up housing loans. I welcome the purchase on the free market, but there is a certain injustice that will only come to light this year and next. In 2004, on page 34 of your report in the table, it reads "that 138 apartments were purchased at 19 locations". I'm here to say that these are the apartments of the POS programme, but such apartments will be significantly less in 2005. Apartments built by POS have a very balanced cost price with a limited value of 910 euros per m2. In these apartments, these apartments are mostly in large cities. Price markets that are real in big cities as you know, are moving somewhere at a level of 1,600 euros. So when you refuse 70 euros for land and 210 euros for fitting that location, then it is no longer a price of 700 euros but a price of 1,300 euros. So one of the victims will receive loans for the purchase of apartments and will pay these apartments at 700 euros while the other sufferers will buy more apartments from the POS programme and receive loans for 700 euros per square, and buy apartments of 1,300 euros per square. I hope that you colleagues listen to this and that this problem is clear and probably very close to you. Unfortunately for him, this may not be the time to discuss it right now, but I would warn you anyway, because at the next reporting period we will definitely come across it. I would say that organized construction is carried out quite unorganized because the Ministry of the Family has no established data, i.e. a list of housing needs for the care of victims in organised housing that should be separated from the list of housing allocations for other purposes. And finally, what is written, but unclearly shown are the data on the table on page 32 of the report, which is table 1.7, which states, quotes: "the buildings on which the construction didn't start, there is no agreement of the Ministry of the Family". Table 2 and 3 from which you can't see and doesn't know what job and what payments were made for. This is particularly highlighted in table 3 of regular number 9 where it is said, again, I quote: "the contracts that are divided into multiple locations" and regular number 10, quote: "other locations by which the payments were made in 2004". If we have received a report, we must first of all know what we are discussing, that is, what certain funds were being paid for, where these funds were spent, what was the new agreement, what was it? Everything needs to be seen, not that we have to speculate and look at these items. And now you'd take another chance, one situation to remind me. That perhaps in the following year, the remaining victims of the Homeland War will be expected to be dealt with through the projects they have offered us, and Mrs. Minister signed the protocol in the 7th month, where the offer comes from the company "Credit Swiss first Boston" where we are talking about 9,000 apartments that will start next year. I took it off HINA's portal in 13.7.2005, and you can take it off. So it's about 9,000 apartments where the square will cost 600 euros per square. Maybe that's the model by which we're going to solve these other residential unsettled ones. Anyway, I'll welcome every model if we settle this, but I'm much more prone to solving through loans than through any of these cloudy combinations. This report would have to be so that we can answer and decide whether or not the Ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44825	I'm asking the mayors of Osijek to allow the uninterrupted exposure of a respected colleague. ... Both present and ex and future. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44826	This mayor's worth about two, at least this volume. ... Well, in every way, I didn't decode in which I didn't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nothing, nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So another small crackdown on the presentation of Minister Dropulic at the 14th session. In fact, she would also mention one thing that may not be quite clear to the end. One is apartments built through the Department of Construction. The reporting period does not have to correspond precisely to the number of apartments committed to defenders compared to those completed by the Ministry of Construction. There may be a certain difference, simply for some other reasons, administrative nature that follows after the apartments are built and are not yet assigned to the defenders, and that is absolutely clear to me. But I would return here to this 14th session and a statement by Mrs Dropulic when the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartment where she said among other things that there are about 300 built and habitable apartments that cannot be sold and that they suggest that these apartments be given to the Central Property Office and that the office together with the Government decide that these apartments should be given to units of local self-government who will rent the victims of the Homeland War. Is that how it was done, did the ministry take over those apartments? Also in this report, it's not clear to me because it doesn't say it anywhere. According to the information we have, the ministry has taken over some of the apartments in Sisak and Vinkovci. Now there are unsold and inhabitable apartments cca 20 pieces. And finally, let's find out. At this point, approximately 13 and a half thousand victims of the Homeland War have been unresolved, and an increase is expected, given the new requirements submitted by the end of November of the current year for the next calendar year and so on each year. There's something else we need to talk about. Here, I'll finish one more sentence. There are those victims who will be, who will apply for PTSD. Of course, it's going to be victims with 60, maybe 70% damage. When will it finally come to order those with 40% or 50% who don't have PTSD? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44827	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44828	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. Well, I don't belong to those who claim that the report was unprofessionally made, but I join all those who have expressed their dissatisfaction that this report comes to debate almost at the end of the year because today it is October 5th, when the actuality is at least more than questionable. And as we've heard from the predecessors, it's more about satisfying form, not content, I'd say, politics. The more we discuss the effects of a law that is no longer in force, the more so, which we have changed in the meantime. And from the debate of my predecessors, it is evident that they mixed up what the government brought even in August or late July of this year. Yet, neither today nor today, especially in the morning hours, there were no heavy and unmeasured, and I would say unnecessary words. It is obvious that this important and important topic is still accompanied by a lot of emotions, a lot of irrational, which is why rationality and the essence of the problem is clearly in the second plan. There is still a significant need to accuse the previous government, and less need for reasoned debates and requests from all of us, I repeat to all of us, to make the lives of Croatian defenders, members of their families, especially children of Croatian defenders, but also of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia easier and more effective. I personally believed that these discussions ended last year in the adoption of a new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and members of their families, where we heard that the Law finally restored the dignity of Croatian defenders, that injustices were corrected, that the dignity was restored, etc. But it is obvious that, as I am now, I was in error. Unfortunately, we are also inclined to look in the mirror today, not in front of ourselves. Which, of course, is not good, so I believe that with this practice, we need to stop and turn the order of moves and actions as quickly as possible, and in particular the habit. I believe that we are also presented with comparative data from previous years to make the debate more quality, and the overall picture is at least clearer and better. No matter how Croatian defenders and the public experience us before us is a report from which certain developments can be read and I am sure that despite all the efforts, both the ministries and the government, they are still not enough to change the picture more significantly, and especially the status of Croatian defenders. I will only talk about one segment of this report from which certain illogicalities arise, primarily in the field of employment. The area which, I would say, in the best possible way to return the dignity is to return people to the field of work, the area of creation, the area of usefulness. By reading the data on page 67, data on the unemployment and employment of Croatian defence attorneys from the 2004 Croatian Employment Service show that on average there were 26 thousand 2 hundreds and 80 unemployed Croatian defenders. Ten thousand 566 unemployed Croatian defenders were employed last year. On the next page, 68, it is evident that in January there were 27,000, 2100, 56 unemployed, and in December 26,000 962. What they're going to say is that elementary mathematics at least says that only two hundred 94 Croatian defenders were less in December than they were in January last year. And we hired ten thousand 566 defenders. I'm going to beg, I tried to investigate and get to that statistic, and unfortunately I didn't make it. I'd also like to hear from you, gentlemen, based on what data you've come up with this information that 10 thousand and 600 are almost employees of defenders, which is a very important and good indicator, good data. It's just a question of whether he's real? What is also a pleasure is the knowledge that measures taken to reduce unemployment have also received a positive result. But it concerns the fact that these effects are missing this year, so it will be interesting when the year is over, I hope, much sooner than we discuss today, to discuss the report for this year. I hope these results won't be worse than these, and in that case, we won't charge our former government unrealized because it simply won't drink water anymore. And it definitely wouldn't be good for the defenders either, and I'm sure neither. Speaking of measures, the 69th page shows that, according to these 6 measures, a total of a thousand 350 Croatian defenders have been taken care of. I will say that out of the 655 employees of Croatian defenders from Brod-Posavina County in 2004, 111 of them were covered by this programme. This year, data from August, a total of 495 defenders were employed, and only 64 per these measures were stopped because the information that I have no longer has the means to finance individual measures, and some of them have been abolished. And in the end, I will beg you to comment. Of course, my basic desire as a Croatian defender, and I'm sure we all here, to do everything we can to help a population who really needs help. I wouldn't pathetically talk about the needs of a defense attorney. We know in the end what they did and what we have to do to help them find themselves. And finally, I will also ask you to comment on what your Ministry of State intends to do to increase the employment of Croatian defenders. Especially in areas of the Republic of Croatia where the results are truly devastating and, of course, taking into account even development, the economic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. More, namely, than worrying about the fact that out of 26,000, 2 hundred and 80 average unemployed Croatian defenders from Slavonia and Baranja are almost 8 thousand. Or very precisely, 30% of the unemployed Croatian defenders from the total population are from Slavonia and Baranja. Which in itself speaks enough about what kind of an area, in economic terms, is what it is. So that's the data you wrote, I just summed it up, and here I brought it out. Having this worrying information for all of us in mind, and the information on the number of interventions within the psychosocial assistance teams, I think it is essential to turn to other values, to discuss in a different way and what we are discussing today about the rights of Croatian defenders, we must rapidly change but an active picture about us and, in particular, about Croatian defenders and thus restore their dignity in the fullest sense of the word. Here, it is my appeal because I believe that this is the only way we can expect to welcome the next report in a better quality atmosphere, and that these data will be more kudikamo quality than they are today, in terms of not only numbers but the lives of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44829	Thank you. On behalf of the Club for 5 minutes, on behalf of the SDP Club, a five-minute debate was held on behalf of the Honorable Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44830	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here in a few minutes to try to recapitulate. We'll agree that some discussions were useless, and it seems that ideological and political charges still cannot be avoided, but it's important that we still move forward. In the report to repeat it once again and I say it most well-meaningly, a whole series of inaccuracies has been observed, mistakes in one part of the report hides the real data by keeping them quiet for several hours, and I said that there are 210 million kuna missing from retirement and government representatives still couldn't explain it to me where the mistake was. I hope he says it's a mistake, a lapus colleague, that's enough. I hope that the new assistant minister will improve the state of the ministry so that next year's new report is methodologically speaking, more methodically, more specifically, more comprehensively. What is more advocating us in the SDP and what is at work is ignoring the proactive measures for better integration of Croatian defenders and further encouraging retirement without additional control mechanisms, which will end up in further problems for both Croatian defenders and the whole society. So on behalf of the SDP Club, we're proposing a few things. First, due to the errors in the Report, the supply of additional data, pension insurance by categories of users and financial amounts. Secondly, to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer to the Parliament within 30 days a regular annual report on the problem of finding missing persons. I recall that was the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 2001 when we had in this report a report from the Government Commission on the prisoner and missing. Third, commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer to the Parliament a proposal to reorganise the state administration i.e. The formation of the Government's Office for Detained and Missing in order to speed up the exhumation and identification process, as I should remind the representatives of the Associations of Prisonerd and Missing are also against the existing resolution model. Fourth, oblige the Government to take care of HVO victims within 30 days of the procedure of the proposal for an interstate agreement. Fifth, a request to the government to take all measures in which we have failed to complete, that 204. The Vukovar brigade is recognised as a war brigade and a sixth, the government is obliged to consider the possibility that all monuments of the Homeland War should be placed in the category of protected cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44831	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44832	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. I will correct the inaccuracy of my fellow Pancic, where he claimed that we cannot forget and ignore the political charges. It is not true that we cannot, we started in a reasonable and normal dialogue, recalling only in some moments and segments of the true truth of your insults and callings that you cited to our defenders and our friends, and to the families of the dead Croatian defenders. So don't talk about political charges that we can't forget, but about real truths and insults, but once you find strength and apologize to those you have offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44833	Thank you. In the name of the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ledinski, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44834	Honored Mr. Vice President, Vice President, honored members of the government. Here, at the end of today's debate that lasted as long as any debate concerning the report on the rights of Croatian defenders, I would end up not looking back at the report we talked about today but just wanting to point out some problems that remained obviously unresolved and appeal for them to begin as quickly and as quickly as possible. First of all, I think of the problems of defenders who have disputes in the administrative court that we appeal to be the priority of solving because they stand as long as 3 to 4 years there I have, here I have said in the debate of several personal acquaintances, from the personally one from the A Company 105th brigade who begged me the other day how to reach a solution. Also in the following measures, when we receive the next report on benches, I would like to see more of the measures that have been abolished in the 8th month, measures for the recruitment of Croatian defenders by the Employment Office, which have been no longer accepted since 8 months. Also, paying subsidies to employers who hire and defenders are not delayed for 6 months or more, it is true that 6 months and more later I would like to talk about it in the next periods as measures that have helped us to have increased employment of defenders. And also what I was talking about in the debate, that I would like to have in the following reports more systemically detailed things, above all we remain unknown problems for those who are not in these reports, who have not entered certain figures. I think there's a real state of the population of the children of the deceased defenders, widows, parents of the disabled of their families. Then we might be able to understand their problems more easily and then probably solve them more easily. Once again, I appeal to anyone who can help to address these problems relating to the rights of the defender as quickly and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44835	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comprehensive, extensive discussion. There are also a few topics that we hold in the government that were not within this report. I repeat, it was a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in 2004. It's a 2001 law, according to which the law we changed twice because we were unhappy with that law. That was also the main reason why we immediately started working on the new law. Therefore, once again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to really concentrate on the fact that it is the implementation of the 2001 law and all that we could do on this basis. There were a lot of questions here about what was done, what the government did, which makes the government absolutely unrelated to the report we talked about. However, I am surprised that these issues came mainly from those representatives who could do so or what could have been done and could have been done in the previous period. Why aren't there more apartments? The issue is unfortunately which this government can actually ask the previous government because no housing project has been initiated during the term of office of the last government and the past ministry. We only repeat when we got the 2004 budget we could start with some projects. I can now announce ladies' representatives and gentlemen's representatives that this year we are planning to launch construction of nearly five hundred apartments in cities such as Trogir, Solin, Omis, Sibenik, Ston, Knin, Benkovac, Drniš, Trilj, Makarska, the municipalities of Tisno, Valpovo, Virovitica, Netretic, Vukovar. Of course, you well know that this depends not only on our goodwill, that we must work closely with these cities or local administration units. We also expect completion of construction for 267 apartments in seven locations. As far as the loan is concerned, I have announced that we will be looking in the budget for next year's increase, and this is a significant increase in the loan items. However, the question remains why, since we are talking about the 2004 Report, apartments did not start building in 2003, 2002 or 2001. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, what it was like last year when we took this job. During the year, there have been countless times when the new law and it has been established in advance there will be no new law, nothing by law, it's just a bubble of soap. However, when the law appeared before MPs, one part of the legislator refused to vote. Also, there were questions when the fund, not the Croatian Defence Fund, from the fund nothing, is of course just an empty promise. However, when we established the fund and the fund was based on the moment actually when the first shares were transferred, the issue of dividends was raised and so on. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's hard for me to accept a debate where what we didn't do ourselves is transferred to the burden of other people's backs and puts it as a crime that is then being debated. Let's look at what we each have done in our mandate and then discuss the problem of care and comprehensive care for Croatian defenders and members of their families. It was also about the prisoners and the missing. Now I hear that all of a sudden here's the SDP Club doesn't agree with the way this government takes care of the problem and solves the problem of the prisoners and the missing. I am very surprised because I believe that you were informed that about a month and a half ago the government appointed a special committee for the prisoners and missing, the government's Committee for Detained and Missing, to which representatives of the relevant ministries and representatives of the intelligence communities entered as quickly as possible to solve the problem of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and civilians. Also, there have been questions here several times but also now here in the presentation of representatives of the HSS Club why disputes in the administrative court are not resolved faster. That is, of course, the government's problem, the problem of this government, the ministry and mine. You know well about the trio of power and the subject matter in the administrative court does not mean that the Croatian Government is responsible for it. Also, the Croatian Government cannot in any way influence but I can inform you that in all cases when it comes to the difficult social situation in the family of Croatian defenders whose case is in the administrative court on illness in the family, about diseases in children that we react and write haste. Will one day be declared, for example, pressure on courts is possible. But it also seems to keep the proceedings from speeding up, to get rid of them. But I warn you that these procedures, which are really long-term, are not procedures related to the work of this team of the Croatian Defence Ministry, but go back to another time. As for employment, what we'll do for employment. So I made it very clear that the government has adopted a programme for the employment of Croatian defenders by the end of the term of office. However, three new measures have been introduced, employers who employ defenders and members of their families, or children who are killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, are encouraged. I mentioned cooperatives, I mentioned all those defenders who enter the world of entrepreneurship that are stimulated in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and with special interest etc., etc. Of course, they remain those programs that seek to help the defender to get to school, to be requalified, and therefore I argue, indeed, responsible for the fact that no defence counseling programmes are being constrained or abolished. In fact, we, for example, added another million and 350 thousand kuna in budget rebalancing for this year for the purpose of establishing cooperatives, or encouraging Croatian defenders' cooperatives, because this measure has proved to have a major echo among them. Our estimates are that so far through these programs we've hired more than 3,000 defenders, but of course we'll write about the figures when we write a law enforcement report this year. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank you for the debate. What I can say on behalf of all of us that we were really trying really hard to do our job in 2004, we continue in 2005. I repeat again. Worried about how Croatian defenders will live, whether they will be faced with obstacles and prejudices, whether they will be rotated in circles, whether they will be led through mazes, bureaucraticisation is not only dependent on the Croatian Defence Ministry and on the occupation of people working in the ministry. It depends on all the ministries, so I urge that, say, problems with agricultural land first and foremost be resolved in the ministry and then eventually, if something gets stuck to coming to the Croatian Ministry of Defence and so on. But I repeat once again, it's the concern of the whole society, all of us, the mayor, the mayor, and not to be told as there are examples, go there, report to your ministry. And as far as we're concerned, it's none of our business. There, with a desire for the next year's report to be much better. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. Finally, I would like to refute all the allegations that this report was done inextricably, and I ask all those who claim it, to confirm once again, to try to distinguish signs that are not pensions from pensions, so there will be real figures, so there will be reports that show in the right way how the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from 2001 was implemented in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44837	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44838	First of all, you, Mrs. Kosor, don't seem to have attended math class. Second. One part of the MP said he didn't even want to vote on the law. That's right. We weren't when the law was voted. For what? Because of the unpreparedness to resolve the issue of the quorum's fabrication when it was voted to remind you of Minister Zuzul's trust. You also say incorrectly, where the dissatisfaction of SDP's advocates by asking for the prisoner and missing because a special commission was formed. There's no use from your committees. And the president of the Association of Detained and Missing argues that since the end of 2003, when he was placed under the auspices of the Glorious Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the office for.../The speaker has been shut down and subsequently turned on./... and the truth hurts. Croatian associations of missing persons are particularly unhappy and at the pace of identification of already eshumated remains. If you're not ready to go out with that proposal, then with that proposal as a Parliament, we'll go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44839	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44840	Well, actually, the quote isn't incorrect, it's incomplete, what...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44841	He can't, he can't, then he can't! Correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44842	And it's incorrect, it's incorrect because there's not enough one important, one important information.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44843	No, you answered, incorrectly correct what's wrong, not what's incomplete.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44844	Well, I'll tell you what's wrong. It is incorrect that 3,000 defenders are employed through incentive measures through the Croatian Defence Ministry unless it is said that three times as many are employed through measures, encouraging employment measures aimed at defenders. And if you don't say that those paw measures fell this year. Therefore, the data is created by the wrong image and is not given the correct statement of what is actually going to happen, what is happening and what is happening to that population on the employment plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44845	Thank you. This is what we've concluded. You can't now, after correcting an incorrect quote, unfortunately, you can't. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44846	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're going to vote part of the debate. We will not vote today because the Government has not yet shown itself on a number of amendments and proposals regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and we will not vote today because the Government also needs to show itself to amendments and different proposals of a procedural nature concerning the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Inspectorate, and this will remain. Let's please get involved first and see... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's get on with it now. You said good things, thank God. The result? 93, we have a quorum. First, the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2004. I am giving the vote the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find the conclusion accepted by 71 votes for, 21 abstentions and one against. We have another group of conclusions proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Please engage. To vote for, against or abstention. You can vote. The result? 18 for conclusions, 15 abstentions, 58 against. No conclusions were reached with that majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44847	We move on to the following: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Delivery abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 319; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44848	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, international legal aid in civil matters includes the delivery of written documents by Croatian judicial authorities to foreign parties, then a lot of enrolment of foreign judicial authorities to parties located in the Republic of Croatia, including the submission of a request for legal assistance in taking certain procedural actions and obtaining information on foreign law, legalisation of documents and other matters. That substance should be said to be largely governed by international contracts and by bilateral and multilateral, partly domestic law, the Law on litigation. The law applies when no international contract is concluded, or if an international contract does not fully regulate a question. It should be said that the Republic of Croatia is based on a succession and implements bilateral international agreements concluded by the former SFRY state, which is governed by international legal assistance in civil matters. Among other written deliveries with 20 countries. The Convention also contains provisions on the delivery of letters, i.e. On the way in which the written form, the provisions on the language and the addition of the 65th Convention contain forms, i.e. views of how applications for delivery should be drawn up or making it easier for States Parties to provide legal assistance. Here, I believe that by confirming the Convention on the supply abroad of extra-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters from 15 November 65 Croatia will improve its international legal assistance with a large number of countries in order to improve the achievement of mutual assistance. Perhaps just to draw attention to this proposal for the text of the law has arrived the amendment of the Committee on the Legislatives of this Parliament, which the Government generally accepts by making it clear that the amendment is wrongly stated that the amendment is given on Article 3 and is actually given on Article 4. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44849	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 29th session held on 13 July 2005, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its jurisdiction and Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The applicant’s representative also pointed out that the Convention regulates international legal assistance in the delivery of judicial and extrajudicial acts in civil or commercial matters with a view to achieving mutual legal assistance in order to inform the recipient of the documents on time of the judicial and extrajudicial documents delivered abroad. The Convention shall contain provisions on the obligation to determine the central authority of each Contracting State to accept the application for the delivery of documents, the way in which documents are delivered to the recipient, the use of the language and the other. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the draft law with the final text, noting its meaning in the direction of more effective treatment in the delivery of judicial and non-judicial documents. It stressed in the debate that a further step towards delivery abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents should go in the direction of direct communication and direct co-operation of judicial authorities. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Delivery abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44851	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44852	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, here we have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters which the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports in full. The Convention itself dates back to 15 November 1965, and considering the overall problem, it should also be stated that the Republic of Croatia has already concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of legal assistance in civil matters with a large number of states that are signatories to the Convention and that it has been as a party state and the Hague Convention on Civil Procedure dating back to 1 March 1954. The Convention itself is clearly governed by international legal aid in terms of the delivery of judicial and extrajudicial acts in civil or commercial matters and the primary objective of this international legal document is to improve and facilitate the achievement of mutual legal assistance, which is mainly taken in two ways. First, simplifying and speeding up the process itself, so the delivery of letters abroad. And secondly, the creation of insurance mechanisms so that the recipient of the documents is informed in due time about the judicial and extrajudicial documents to be delivered abroad. Furthermore, it should be noted in this respect that the Convention itself is applicable, and as provided for in Article 1 thereof in all those situations or cases in civil and commercial matters where it is necessary to send court or extrajudicial documents abroad for the purposes of action. As regards the specific provisions of the Convention, the following should be pointed out: A body or judicial officer within the meaning of a prescribed jurisdiction under the law of the State from which the documents originate shall forward to the central authority of the requesting State. It shall be drawn up in accordance with the examination copy annexed to the Convention without additional requirements for legalisation or other, therefore requests for some other formalities. 2. The Central Authority of the requested State shall only execute the delivery of documents or organise the delivery of documents through the relevant agencies. The Central Authority of the requested State shall also, for that purpose, complete the certificate form according to the examination specimen which is also annexed to the Appendix to the Convention itself. Furthermore, the Convention stipulates that each State Party shall have the freedom to deliver documents to persons abroad without any coercion through its own diplomatic or consular representatives. On condition that the country of destination does not object, therefore, without opposition from the State to which the Convention itself is sent in writing shall not enter into: 1. So freedom to send court documents directly to a person abroad via mail. 2. The freedom of judicial officers of officials or other competent persons of the State of origin to deliver court documents directly through judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the country of destination. And three. Therefore, the freedom of any person interested in a court procedure to carry out the delivery directly by means of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the country of destination. In accordance with Article 14 of that Convention, of course, any difficulties that may arise in relation to the transmission of court documents are addressed, are addressed by diplomatic means. Finally, this law should, on the one hand, be taken into account as part of the fact that Croatia's legislation is in line with the legislation and the legal standards of the European Union on the one hand, and, on the other hand, given the nature of the confirmation of international contracts in which the state and formally expresses its willingness to be bound by already signed international contracts, of course, the law itself in this sense absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44853	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to an additional proposal? Nothing. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44854	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial documents in... and commercial matters. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislatives has been accepted by the applicant. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 92 votes to pass the proposed law. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44855	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 346; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Dalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44856	Thank you very much. This Law proposes a confirmation of an international contract representing the first legal document between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission with the aim of regulating, using and overall financial management of funds from the pre-accession programmes "FARE", "ISPA" and "SAPARD". The contract was signed on May 5th this year. The memorandum itself is a document that defines the organisational forms that need to be established in the system of state administration so that funds from pre-accession assistance can be accepted. It defines the obligations and responsibilities between the various officials and the state administration body in the financial management system of the European Union. The obligations and responsibilities of individual officials shall be defined accordingly. It requires the establishment and operation of the National Fund as a body for the implementation of these programmes and end-users by the Ministry of Finance, which will receive funds from pre-accession funds and, in accordance with European Union rules, forward them to bodies for the implementation of these programmes and end-users. The National Fund was founded in the Ministry of Finance. The memorandum also envisions the organisation and operation of implementing agencies for individual aid programmes, the FHARE and ISPA implementing agencies were established in the Ministry of Finance. While the SAPARD Executive Agency is established in the Ministry of Agriculture. In the resolution ministries, this memorandum requires the establishment of implementing units, which has also been largely done so far. According to the second and third articles of this Memorandum, the overall responsibility for the financial management of pre-accession funds shall be borne by the national certification officer, who shall also be the Head of the National Fund. The memorandum therefore brings into our system of public administration existing officials and officials new obligations and responsibilities, as well as the terms that have not yet existed in our public administration system, but as we approach the European Union, it will become our daily life. The Memorandum regulates financial management of Union funds, methods, opening and keeping private accounts in banks for each of those programmes, accounting principles, the principles of withdrawal of appropriations, as well as the way in which irregularities are managed. A specific financing agreement will be drawn up for each of the pre-accession funds, which will also specify projects that will be financed specifically from these programmes. These memoranda will also be submitted to the Assembly for approval. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of this memo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44857	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. If we only wanted to formally approach this case then we could say very briefly that we should accept it as soon as possible. For a very simple reason, because also with this national, with the formation of the national fund, we're already seriously late, so let's try to run some kind of analysis of why we're late. From these materials, it's actually all visible. It is quite clear that the signing of this memo was, in fact, some inconsequential prerequisite for launching the process, first of all... the parts of the body of the state administration responsible for the implementation of this entire pre-accession fund programme. [[You don't understand.]] This was the first step, only to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a national background is merely a legal basis for the regulation of any further relations for each other and the third programme, on the basis of which specific financial agreements will be signed following the approval of projects under individual programmes. I'm deliberately repeating a little bit of this material to realize, in fact, that by setting up a national fund, we didn't even get close to the moment when we could say that we could start withdrawing certain funds. So, the basic prerequisite for using these pre-accession funds for both PHARE and ISPU is for SAPARD to actually set up this national fund that we're going to set up the moment we bring in the memorandum, that is, when we confirm this memorandum. On 6 October 2004, the European Commission adopted a pre-accession strategy and the pre-accession strategy predicted that the Republic of Croatia will be able to use certain funds from pre-accession programmes mentioned here, worth 245 million euros. And that for the PHARE programme in 2005, 2006 at 80m euros a year, for ISPU in 2005. 25 and 35 million in 2006 and for SAPARD, i.e. rural development in 2006 25 million euros. So that was October 6, 2004. Unfortunately, the whole process since the draft memorandum delivered to Croatia in December 2004, so at the moment we practically enter in 2005, by returning from the European Commission on 17 February, the government adopted the procedure, in order to bring it back from the European Commission on 26 April this year. And finally we have a signed memo on May 5th, 2005. This is actually a fundamental question, given that this procedure is obviously very complicated, why, from 5 May 2005 until today, we have not received this memorandum here for confirmation, because it is to assume that, in the practical sense of this job, we would probably do most of the work and probably those entities that claim to use funds from pre-accession funds, regardless of what the programme is about, would probably be more ready today. Today we don't actually have the basic institutional assumptions that we're about to gain by forming this national fund. We'll have institutional assumptions that we'll start running for certain projects in front of pre-accession funds. If I understand correctly, the Ministry of Agriculture has not even formed an executive agency. I thought you said the formation was under way, so we're very, very late. What I'm saying doesn't need to be taken in any way as some kind of rejection of this memo. Of course this Croatian Parliament will accept the memorandum, but we need to know what it is. When we come, when we create all institutional assumptions, and this is a fundamental institutional assumption, then it's actually just beginning to be a real pain, and the question is how many potential users are actually willing to base these institutional assumptions on actually running for the use of certain pre-accession funds. Those who do this little know that there should certainly be some development agencies in their midst that know the methodology of work, which are able to develop certain programmes and projects exactly according to the methodology required by the European Commission, especially for the use of these pre-accession funds. That programmes that are in line with this methodology should be developed, that there should be personnel in those agencies, that they should be eventually and implemented agencies in the ministries, these three ministries of personnel trained to monitor the whole process. And in the end, we come to one, when we absorb all of this together, when we have interested users, when we have some kind of agency development, when we have some projects designed and proposed, at that point we're going to run into the roughest fact in the realisation of pre-accession funds, which is that potential users need to provide 25% of their own resources. We are now actually at the end of the first year of using these pre-accession funds. If, by the end of the year, the units of local self-government that predicate to part of these projects do not provide 25% of the resources for projected projects in their budgets, if we will not do so when we will bring the state budget for, in the state budget at the end of the year, and these funds can, of course, be provided in the state budget or in the regional budget or budgets of the local self-government units or at the end of the end of the year with end-users. If at least that part called the state budget, the regional budget and the budget of the local self-government unit are going to miss to provide 25% of these funds, of course we won't be able to run again for certain projects from, for funding from these pre-accession funds. There is not much wisdom, we know the experience and the new 10 members of the European Union. The percentage of pre-accession funds used range from some minimum 15% to 16%, to me, at a maximum of 30, 30 percent, if I have all the information I need. It seems to me that already in 2005, at least when the PHARE programs seem to have missed the first year, that we missed the first year for ISPU and that at this point we have to actually fight to make this 245 million that we have left without 2005 to realize them in the most efficient way. That is why it is extremely important for this memorandum to be adopted urgently in this House. It's a pity it wasn't adopted immediately at 5 months, there were conditions, no reason for this memo to be adopted in the 5th month. I don't know what we've been waiting for since May 5th this year, until today. I'd like to hear some sort of explanation. There is no doubt that those who in local self-government and regional self-government units are already working in the counties, who have been trained in both human and organisational, who are already working and certain programmes that they will certainly be adequate competitors for these funds. But I'm asking another additional question. which with those still the state administration did something to inform them in time, especially these three ministries, to guide them to see if there were certain instructive meetings, instructions for those who should actually be the bearers of using these funds. It would be a shame if Croatia did the same thing as most of these 10 new members of the European Union did. In that sense, in the name of the HSS Club, with this criticism of lateness, I can only say one thing. The sooner we adopt this memorandum, the sooner we confirm it, and the sooner we try and get the Ministry of Agriculture to train an implementing agency that will of course have big jobs at least when it comes to ISPA and when it comes to the SAPARD program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44859	Thank you. State Secretary Mrs. Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44860	Well, here I am actually pleased to base your discussion in a certain way and inform you here, that we have not actually been late, that the activities in many ministries have been running parallelly over the past year so that, in mutual communication between our authorities and the European Commission, so I expect that at the end of this year, money will actually come. Why aren't we late? Because the programming and identification process of the project to be financed has run over the past 8 months in communication between all relevant bodies according to the rules laid down by the Union and the final regulation of projects that can be financed from these funds, it is the subject of a common and mutual agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. Therefore, when the European Commission makes appropriate decisions on the programmes, which we expect during this fall, these programmes will also be ready for funding. We have taken care of the experiences of other countries, so just programming and defining the project over the past months has been carried out extremely carefully and in a way that only those tasks that have been fully prepared, fully prepared and at the time when the Commission is able to give a positive assessment and effectively approve that these are projects that it agrees to use its funding resources, these projects will be able to immediately implement. In addition to the programming led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Finance led to the establishment of these administrative structures, the National Fund of Implementation agencies, staffing, education, the making of rules of procedure because the purpose of this Memorandum and the whole process is that all parts of the public services involved in this process are in fact practicing the management of financial resources in the way in which the European Union procedures and regulations of the European Union are prescribed. Accordingly, the European Commission's accreditation has been requested for the PHARE and ISPA programmes and therefore the European Commission's assessment of whether everything we have done is good, quality, we expect at the end of this year. In fact, in working with the European Commission, the European Commission services were done by converting programming processes and processes for the establishment of administrative structures around the same period. The SAPARD programme is more complicated in administrative implementation and therefore the resources from the SAPARD programme are allocated only and can only be used from the European Union budget for 2006. So these activities are ongoing. I would therefore like to say that we are not too late, that the urgency of this process required that numerous activities take place parallelly as was the case, so that we would have all the activities completed at the end of this year. The term of use of funds itself will begin at the time of the signing of the financial memos in which the projects will be accurately described. The funds could be used, i.e. contracts could be concluded two years after the signing of the financial memorandum and another year after the conclusion of the negotiation period. So, I think that part of the, most of the remarks you mentioned were fortunately kept on account of them and jobs were done. To the extent that the memorandum could have been found in the Assembly perhaps a month earlier, I can agree that it could have been saved for a few weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44861	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44862	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm not meant to point out this subject, but I don't see any reason, your face is compared to this "shining"... A tooth? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I was thinking about this topic. But look clearly, there's no excuse. You know if the 5th of May memo was signed, today is October, that five months after the signing of the memo we debate as if nothing had happened. We know what kind of interested subjects are, how much ignorance, wandering, searching, etc. to use these funds. But in order not to outsmart me MPs and people from the government, I'll say it in advance. I think it would be a good idea to support one conclusion that Mr. Radosh here suggested, which requires every six months a report. So if we're going to be, if we're going to be reviewing some report on the implementation of these programs in the second, third month of next year, I'd just like to know how much of the funds we've been using for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44863	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, as far as I'm concerned, this government has no objection to supporting this conclusion proposed by my colleague, Rados, which you support. Right? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44864	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here are all these doubts, of course, which will later appear around these funds and the use, especially about the problem of the programme and everything that is being followed, and what is the prerequisite of that, we at the HDZ Club hold that right now, given the environment, only a few premises should be brought to the situation with this basic concept that this law should be adopted by an urgent procedure because of course I don't think there will be too much dispute besides these slightly smaller doubts. I'm using the same opportunity to say, which is why I haven't even checked in before, that the Finance Committee has agreed unanimously to follow the accelerated procedure. Here's just a few information about the current situation and the reasons why we think we really need to adopt this law, and I can even say freely on behalf of the club yes, and so it's foreseen by the law to give half-yearly reports, financial reports, and that I think it has a basis to accept that and that we can agree on that. It is only necessary to remind the public, as well as the colleagues, that the basis of the European Commission's 2001-2006 strategy is so far foreseen under the CARDS programme, the use of those annual contracts that have not been listed so far. About 255 million in an indicative way, and I point out exactly for a correlation with the current situation and that these funds were irrevocable, which is true. And that they were used to prepare an institutional and legislative framework for social economic reforms that should be prepared as a prerequisite for entry into this. Now, the new strategy is foreseen under these three programmes, PHAR, ISPA and SAPhard, about 245 million. It is individually stated that we do not spend as much time as individuals within participation and per year prescribed for these two years, but it is an important difference which is now envisaged, use, or 25% of their own participation. Although it is predicted that it can come from different sources of the state budget, its own budgets, but it is always questionable and controversial and problematic. But also the possibility of lending which I suppose could then be used as my own participation. But as for the debt then the local community and the state budget are subject to the limit on possible debt. So it seems to me that they may need to try to see it in time, or even help units, especially local self-government, because most programs will be used from a level that can be enabled to compete in time. Some are as ready as I know it, but many are not yet. It will therefore need to be possible for these funds to be used as soon as possible, with a 25% share. The objectives are stated, it's unnecessary to explain them here. Because we all agree that these objectives that are to be achieved are necessary, that we must realise them as a prerequisite for further relations with the European Commission. And at this point in preparation, we really just need to speed up the activity, not question whether or not to achieve those goals. Finally, with this memorandum signed, this accreditation is also envisaged, which is once again a prerequisite to mean that we are finally qualified to do so, and this is the doubt Mr. Tomcic has previously set, whether or not we are, or to what extent we are already qualified to be able to make preparations, to realize under technical conditions. But ultimately, the control of the spending of funds that is overlooked from that level. That is precisely why we are predicting, or think that we are already at this level and at this point, and thanks to the now and accelerated development of the situation after the beginning of the labelling of these negotiations. That this law should be adopted by an urgent procedure and that it should move to operationalisation by the ministries as soon as possible and finally towards the implementation of these projects. So once again, we support. We suggest that this be adopted urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44865	Thank you very much. HNS club, PGS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44866	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. I don't think it's disputed that this law should be passed, but I think it should be said that we often treat laws like this quite unseriously. That is, according to something that seems to us to be a convenient, or favourable loan. So, for example, often in this House loans are worth a hundred million dollars without a single debate because it is a loan that will begin to return there in five years. And actually these loans can be very dangerous. If you don't process them properly, if you don't offer real programs, the fact that you got something cheaper, doesn't mean you won't use it wrong. This is of course not a loan, this is a help programme, but the Republic of Croatia is participating here. It participates with 25% of the funds with all these 3 programmes, but all the operational costs and all the risks and operations under very demanding conditions set by the European Union are part of our responsibility. This means that all operational costs, employees and all other operating costs of this Fund and the withdrawal of all other loans, i.e. aid, not only this 3 but all others, 12 more, exchange rate differences that can occur in business, bank costs, fees, are all our costs. These are not costs to be paid by the European Union or by some quota by division. So it's not just about the funds that we get, so it doesn't matter how we spend them. If we don't spend these funds properly, we're not just gonna lose credibility as a state, we're gonna lose money. And that's why this is a question that my colleague Tomcic asked a very relevant question. On October 10th, this year is the time when decisions are made, I don't know at what stage of decision-making, it would be good if the secretary of state had informed us a little about it, but initial decisions are being made to withdraw money for these programmes. In October of this year, today is October 5th of this year, and we are just adopting this Memorandum. There's no question we'll adopt him. However, I really don't understand why we should have waited since May 5th when he after the government signed it actually passed all the adjustments. Why could we not bring this document to the Croatian Parliament in one reading, of course by emergency procedure, but at 6 or 7 months? It's a very demanding procedure. The European Union will not, in either case or in other cases, give money without ensuring as much as possible that this money is spent properly. If you just look at the procedures, and for the people who are going to conduct these procedures, for their education, for their timely treatment, we are responsible, it is part of this Agreement, that is, this Memorandum. You look at what complicated procedures these are, how demanding the procedure is then of course you should have educated people for it. And if you look only at this supplement that is top officials, I don't mean officials who must also be educated or have their own teams. The Secretary of State must have his own team to help him properly lead or oversee the conduct of these tasks. But look only at the lower level of the highest state officials this Agreement provides to appoint. So of course you'll conclude that even though you see what they're doing, that these people today or maybe half a year ago were supposed to be appointed or educated. We haven't heard anything about it here from Madam Secretary of State. I'm glad or glad that she thinks we're not late, but it seems to me that it would be much better if we had passed this law and the law that precedes him, and that's the Framework Agreement on All Programs, not just these 3. Well, we've educated our officers, and we've heard about the programs that are being predicted here. What are the programmes that are scheduled to enter that quota that we are granted within this 2 or for the next year 3 of the programmes? And that's part of what should be our debate here. Not just formal, dry, bureaucratic acceptance of this Agreement. So, at the highest official level, we should appoint an official who is authorised to verify the programme, sectoral project certification officer, sectoral monitoring subcommittee, programme manager. And I guess for each of these programs, or programs within the program. And when you see how demanding it is I suppose it would be much better if we had accepted this Law, or this Memorandum in June or July. And then from July to today, if this month's first decisions are already coming, and in the withdrawal of funds, we've educated our people. And that we've got some reports on what we're planning, what we're applying to one or another program. Since the third SAPHARD programme is only activated next year. Of course, this isn't just about these three programs. The framework agreement that we have again made after 6 months of Government signature between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation in Community programmes, we have accepted, opened the possibility to participate in the 15th Community programme, which, of course, are also financially suitable for the Republic of Croatia but still administratively very demanding, and we need to be very serious about this, and in this sense this conclusion is proposed which I will say a little more about later. In 2007, all these three programmes are merged into a programme called IPA, and it is estimated that the Republic of Croatia will withdraw around 200m euros annually under the programme. If these additional programmes are also counted, it is difficult to assess how much their total weight will be now, it is about 200 to 300 million euros a year or until the date of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and this will be 2009 as is said these days, then it is about the financial weight of a billion euros, it is about too much money to treat us so easily and I therefore proposed on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Club that the Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to submit a full report every 6 months to the Croatian Assembly on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union and, with special reference to planned and unused programmes. That means what we missed, what we could pull and we didn't pull that should be one of the most important contents of that report. Even more than that, what the funds were withdrawn for, but they had to be returned, it's even worse for the state if they withdraw the funds, that means that it came to an end of the conditions for realisation and it didn't work out, for which someone should already be responsible for this first at some higher political level, for this second certainly someone concrete. In particular, given the possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds, as stated in the agreement or memorandum. It is a minimum effort that can make the Croatian Parliament, that with its supervisory function it itself participates in making these programmes as useful as possible. It is about money, and I repeat two dimensions, one financial which is not negligible for the next 4 years, it is about a billion euros, so 7.5 billion kuna, money that is for projects, which is not for the maintenance of any cold drives, but for projects that we can choose for the better part, and the other is, of course, the credibility of the Republic of Croatia which, unless they can be able to withdraw these programmes in excess of 50 or over 70, about 90% will then, as a state, lose credibility which is not something we need. In this sense, I repeat on behalf of the HNS Club we support this memorandum, i.e. this Law, and we expect that during all these years, the Croatian Assembly should first refer to its bodies to the Committee on Finance and to some other expert committees of this Parliament that will then follow, for the SAPARD should be responsible to the most extent for the Committee on Agriculture, the Environment Protection Committee for ISPA Programme, etc. Therefore, there is plenty of room for the involvement of our parliamentary bodies even though parliament is doing its job in a good way then, of course, the government will do its job better than it would have done without that parliamentary dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44867	Thank you very much. The club of IDS MPs, the respected representative of Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44868	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The European Commission adopted a pre-accession strategy and a Council regulation created a legal basis for pre-accession programmes to be approved by the Republic of Croatia. This pre-accession strategy provides for the Republic of Croatia to use aid for all three pre-accession programmes during the period 2005, Far, ISPA, SAPARD for a total amount of 245 million euros. If we look at an individual PAR program 80 million euros annually for 2005 and 2006, we have very little time in 2005. ISPA programme 25m euros in 2005 and 35m euros in 2006 and SAPARD 25m euros in 2006. The basic prerequisite for the use of these funds is the establishment of a national fund as a separate, building unit within the State Treasury in the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Finance through which all pre-accession aid will be directed in the Republic of Croatia. Through the European Union's National Fund, it will be determined by means of implementing agencies responsible for the implementation of individual programmes. In particular, what needs to be taken into account is that the National Fund will be responsible for implementing the national co-financing system as a basic assumption for the implementation of the European Union programme. In this case, unlike the CARDS programme from which the activities were financed fully for projects under pre-accession programmes, it is necessary to ensure co-financing of at least 25% of the project's value, and co-financing can be made from budgets, whether from the state budget or from the budget of the units of local or regional self-government or from end-user funds or from state or credit resources. This co-financing should be taken into account in all ministries related to this topic and inform and educate units of local and regional self-government, in order to better prepare for the planning of sources of funds, whether from the state budget or from their budgets or from credit resources so that they do not enter the situation that they cannot be included in those programmes. The Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund, except as it determines the obligations and responsibilities of the National Fund through which the pre-accession funds will be allocated to the Republic of Croatia and its competence for the total financial management of funds obtained from the European Union. Obligation to ensure co-financing, the obligation to report to the European Union on the funds used. Control of the work of the implementing agencies and others. This is very commendable to hear that given the conclusion proposed by Mr. Rados, it will enter into this legislative regulation that every 6 months I have insight into what has been done so far. The most important thing at this point is good preparation, and good education I repeat another unit of local and regional self-government in order to get the same as best and as soon as possible with technical documentation because all programmes must be covered with sources of funding, i.e. co-financing and with technical documentation, we know that no project can be done if a building permit is required for it and that there is simply no such permit. To conclude, we at the IDS Club think it is necessary to establish the National Fund and we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44869	Thank you very much. We are going to an individual debate, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone, he's lost his word. Does the secretary of state want a final review? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44870	Thank you very much. Here, only in the end despite criticism that it took a long time for the memorandum to come to confirm in the Parliament. I agree that time should be shortened, and in the case of the Ministry of Finance, we will do everything possible to do so in our future legislative proposals. But most importantly, what I would like to once again underline is the past nine, ten months have been extremely strong, extremely powerful in all the authorities of the state administration on this. The accreditation was therefore requested by the commission as early as July. We cannot prejudge what the commission will conclude. We can only say that its decision is whether we did well and whether all the structures have been established in accordance with all the rules, the procedures that the commission requires are expected by the end of the year. Therefore, in the next few months, the success of our work both in programming and in this establishment of these administrative structures will be clearly visible. But I think just from the work that people have invested in the various authorities of the state administration that we have been in the past months if you let me pass on that impression to you showed that there is the ability of the state administration to accept new things, to cooperate with each other both vertically and horizontally between different institutions. Therefore, I think that the report, which will therefore be submitted within six months on progress in this process, will be clearly seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44871	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thirdly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a National Fund between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 96 votes to pass the proposed law. We also have a proposal for the conclusion of the HNS-PGS Club, which the government has accepted, on the submission of the report to the Croatian Assembly every six months on the use of access funds, etc. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find 93 votes to and 3 abstentions to the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44874	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44875	Thank you very much. There's no need. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income Taxes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes for and 1 abstention accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44878	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the final proposal for a law with the intention not to pay an allowance to state officials in the executive power of 0.5% for each year of the completed employment for a total of 20%. We know that officials’ salaries that are often the subject of the debate are not too high, especially in terms of salaries in the economy, in the financial sector but we believe that public officials must or would do well to contribute and, in this way, to a realistic reduction of salaries from those that they are legally entitled to in order to save a little more than 13 million kuna in the 2005 state budget. It is a provision, a regulation which is in force and during this year was not paid to an internship because a law supplementing the law was applied, and we propose that this should be regulated in order to stop the Regulation on the completion of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. So, due to the expected savings of just over 13 million kuna according to the calculation we propose that this law be adopted for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44879	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. There's no one reported for questioning. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 82 votes for and 10 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44882	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be brief since the bill is proposed and in the first reading received support. One part of the remarks from the first reading has been respected and before you is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Police Solidarity Foundation. I will only repeat that the basic objective of this law or the establishment of the Police Solidarity Fund is to promote humanitarian action and support police officers during all forms of suffering and endangering their social status, providing financial assistance to members of the families of the dead police officers, providing material and medical assistance to the unemployed parents who were killed by a police officer was to provide financial assistance for the treatment of heavily ill police officers and to provide assistance to all police officers who find themselves on certain difficult social opportunities. The latest events have shown that police work is more and more dangerous. Unfortunately, police officers are increasingly involved in the conduct of this responsible and difficult service, so with those solutions that exist in the Police Act, we want to introduce another additional institute in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act that would provide additional assistance to police officers or families of the injured police officers. As I was saying, we have observed some remarks so that this final version of the law includes a provision that the minister appoints members of the board of directors from the ranks of police officers so that it is indeed a true foundation in which the officers will determine for themselves whom the assistance from the foundation will be granted because they are best aware of both the dangers of their work and of the people whose help will come. In conclusion, I believe that the adoption of this law is extremely good, that the establishment of the foundation will bring about good effects and that police officers who find themselves in a difficult social situation due to and in the context of the conduct of their services will be provided with an additional opportunity to assist in this difficult social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44883	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The Legislative Committee? The Constitution? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44884	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 50th session held on 29 September 2005 supported the position of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Police Solidarity Fund in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44885	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, I'm sorry, I'm opening the debate. HSP Club, Honorable Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. First, I will say that the Croatian Party club will support this final bill because it is better to have something than nothing. We know for ourselves what the situation is about the police in terms of both salaries and large debts of the police from which about 4 billion kunas are linked to meeting those obligations from the former government for collective, for collective contract rights, what the equipment of our police is and what we are asking of these police. Therefore, let us also be aware of one situation. We support this Law simply because such a situation is fixed as much. But let's be aware of the fact that this Foundation Act cannot solve what should be dealt with systematically legally. So, through law, let's say rights, protection of military and civilian disabled people, because that's where they should put members of the police of all those who suffer, get wounded or killed, protect their families. So we have to systematically solve all this. And then we can normally ask the police to do everything that's coming to her and she has great obligations in fighting crime and everything else. So let's not make any illusions that we've done a lot of things with this Law, it's a small step, and a big step will be when all these problems are solved, but legally, so these are status issues that we can't solve with trusts, which we have to solve by law. Only then will we make that part possible and enforceable and that we can ask the police for everything that is necessary in the fight against organised crime and all that is happening to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-10-05-0.u44887	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Treasure of Police Solidarity. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that the proposed law was passed unanimously by 94 votes.
