ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50223	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all and continue the session. We move to - Proposed candidates for the selection of members of the National Attorney's Council; the proposal for an act was submitted by the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 89. Law on State's Attorney's Office. I'd like Mrs. Chairman of the board to take Mrs. Anna Lovrin's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50224	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At the 32nd session held on 8 November 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a proposal for candidates to elect members of the National Lawyers' Council submitted to the Justice Committee by the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia on 31 August 2005. The Dean of Law Schools has been acting since 27 June 2005 and the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Executive Chairman of the Committee informed the members that the Committee on Justice had carried out the procedure of proposing members of the State's Attorney's Board in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and was set out as follows. The National Attorney General, the President of the State Attorney's Council, sent her letter of 12 May 2005 to the Justice Committee an initiative to initiate the procedure for the appointment of members of the State's Attorney's Council, as 6 members are suspended from office on 15 November 2005. Article 89 paragraph 1 of the Law on State Attorney's Office stipulates that in the selection procedure of members of the State's Attorney's Board of Justice, the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament will ask the Chief State's Attorney and the Dean of Law to initiate the application procedure for members of the Council. Article 5 of the Law provides that candidates from the Croatian Parliament are to be established by the Justice Committee. Since 24 May 2005, the Committee president has been asked by the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the Dean of Law Colleges to launch and implement the application procedure for members of the State Attorney's Council. In the same letter, the Committee also asked all clubs of the Croatian Parliament to propose candidates for members of the National Lawyers' Council. On the basis of the requests submitted, the Committee received proposals from the main state attorney, the draft candidate of the law school dean, and the proposals of the clubs of the Croatian Parliament's representatives. In accordance with Article 89(6) of the Law, authorised applicants have proposed at least three candidates, as is the legal provision for each place in the Council. The main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia has identified candidates for six seats of members of the State Attorney's Council of State, since he is a member of the State Attorney's Council of the Sanda Pavlovic Lučić Deputy State Attorney at the County State's Attorney's Office in Sibenik on 15 October 2003, and her term of office is still pending. The proposal by the candidate of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia has been established with the consent of the extended College of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia and ensures the appropriate representation of candidates from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, county and municipal state attorneys pursuant to Article 89(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Laws and proposals are in the next row. Here, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am now not reading the names in the material you've got all the candidates for, candidates run by the state's attorney. As a member of the State Attorney's Board of Law, then state attorneys both of the county and municipal and of the order of the end of the list of these names you have in the materials. Following the vote on the extended Croatian State Attorney's College of the Republic of Croatia, the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia gives priority to the next candidates. Joseph Chule, deputy attorney general. Dragan Novosel, deputy attorney general. Gold to Hrvoje Šipek, deputy attorney general. Željko Krpan, deputy county state attorney at the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek. Vlado Sirotic, deputy county state attorney at the County State's Attorney's Office in Pula and Zvezdan Verk, deputy municipal state attorney at the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb. The law school dean's session identified candidates from the university professors' order for two members of the State's Attorney's Council in the next row. Prof. Dr. Branko Babac, Faculty of Law in Osijek. Prof. Dr. Davor Krapac, Faculty of Law in Zagreb. Prof. Dr. Vladimir Ljubanovic, Faculty of Law in Osijek. Prof. Dr. Miomir Matulović, Faculty of Law in Rijeka. Prof. Dr. Zvonimir Slakoper, Faculty of Law in Rijeka. Prof. Dr. Goran Tomašević, Faculty of Law in Split. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament, identified candidates from the ranks of representatives for two members of the State's Attorney's Council in the next row. Prof. Dr. William Herman, Club of HNS Representatives, PGS. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, SDP Representatives' Club. Anto Djapic, Club of HSP Representatives. Anna Lovrin, HDZ Representatives' Club. Prof. Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Club of SDSS Representatives and Emil Tomljanovic, Club of HDZ Representatives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law is elected by members of the State's Attorney's Council by the Croatian Assembly with six members because one more term of office takes place by the Council. It's chosen from the order of the deputy state attorney. Two members from the Croatian Assembly and two members from the course of the University of Legal Sciences professors. All the proposals received were submitted to you in the light of this report. The Committee on Justice has determined that the proposed candidates meet the conditions for elections in the State Attorney's Council, and the proposals of authorised applicants for members of the State's Attorney's Council shall be forwarded to the Croatian Assembly for decision. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously concluded that ten members of the State Attorney's Council were proposed to be elected to the Croatian Assembly. All proposed candidates of 30 authorised applicants, as it has been established that they all meet the conditions of choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50225	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. And please, when you file these applications, don't always write like this, so there are forms like this. I'm sorry, the item on the agenda that's being discussed should always be filled in and signed up, and we're covered in improvisation here. Nor do MPs bother to go ahead and fill out a normal application and then sign up. This way anyone can sign up without a signature. Now, please, on behalf of the club, you didn't sign the same thing. Well, you're not the club, please. I'm talking about everyone. I'm not saying that to you. Here you go, but I'm warning the MPs that's why there are applications right there for a certain item of the agenda. There's a lot of work to be done and done. Because it says here to fill out and sign and hand over to the president's desk. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50226	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in front of us this is what I mean one of the very important decisions. The next point that will be and will be the election and appointment of jury judges is also crucial. We are often critical and very critical but general public about the credibility of the judiciary itself. Here, when we talk about the State's Attorney's Council, we must remember the law of his obligations. It has just been called by the State Attorney's Council and has given him the authority and responsibility to decide on the appointment of state attorneys, their promotion, their strict responsibility. True, it is also in preparation to amend the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, which regulates one special head and part-round and the composition of the State's Attorney's Council. Maybe that's a chance to think about the composition of the State's Attorney's Council. As we have seen, and as we are doing now, the vast majority of the state's attorneys have their own State's attorneys, i.e. deputies. There are also professors of law school, two of them and two of them in the line of MPs. In this way every decision is essentially made from the profession itself. We see with the State Judicial Council that the situation is such that the legislative authority does not in any way participate in the selection and appointment of judges, nor in their promotion, nor in their responsibilities. And that is precisely why this may be an opportunity because all other legislative bodies, a large majority, if not more than 50%, then up to 50% to participate in some way both executive and legislative power. It is, in fact, the right to do so, one of the most important things, which is appointed by the State Attorney's Council in its ranks and how it takes care of the strict responsibility of members amongst their ranks. We also see that major criticisms are addressed to the work of the State's Attorney's Council, especially in his past. Perhaps it is precisely because of the fact that we remember those people who stayed at the height of their professional and human task, and among them are some teachers who are also candidates again. It is also an opportunity to do just like one common democratic practice, not to consider it to be a predominant influence of a particular policy, or a political group, as it has been so far, after being elected, or named only two in the line of MPs, as we have done so far to name one in the order of the majority. The authorities, and the others from the opposition. That's how we've done it so far. Since there is no agreement in that sense, but I think the Parliament should also take care of that as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50227	Thank you very much. Mr. Vojislav Stanimirovic on behalf of the SDSS club. He's gone. He's losing his right. Does Mrs. Lovrin want to make a closing statement?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50228	Mr. President, that is, the Vice President has no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50229	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50230	Proposal for a candidate to elect members of the State Attorney's Council. In accordance with Article 231 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the selection of members of the State Attorney's Council will hold a secret vote. Since the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected, as it must be, in the secret vote, the provisions of Articles 232 to 238 apply on the ballots, the ballots are the same colors, they are prepared, the procedure is also set out to assist MPs. ... Yeah, we need to set up some more MPs to help, we have two more to six. Wait a minute, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, if I don't read you the procedure that is listed in both the Rules of Procedure and that, we just need to figure it out, we have two MPs, and we need 6 to help the secretary with the ballots. We're going to volunteer quickly, and first of all, we're going to have an honorary representative, Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50231	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I'd like to give you a simple notice. I'm one of the candidates, but in the material you have in front of you, you can read that I'm a candidate outside the HNS Club, PGS. That's just not true. In the meantime, circumstances have changed, and I think I'm obliged to say it here. In addition, the club president wrote a letter showing himself on behalf of the club that I am not therefore a candidate of the club, but as the procedure requires that there be exactly 6 candidates or 2 candidates for, or 2 for, one of the places, that means that by withdrawing my candidacy, or 3 forgive me, that my resignation would lead to a simple procedural problem. Since I'm one conscious representative and I don't work now. ... Please, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50232	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50233	It doesn't suit you. I'm saying I'm not doing the campaign, I'm not withdrawing my candidacy because I'd disable the vote, and here's a calm conscience I'm going to sit down because I gave the information that is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50234	Perfect, immeasurably appreciate your noble gesture. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50235	Mr. President, this statement of yours, which is almost solemn, requires an indication on my part as well. So I hope you'll always testify in some possible résumé that I did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50236	Comrade Herman, in the cathedral of my heart there will always be one candle lit for you. Luka Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50237	Mr. President, please establish the quorum that they may not have entered in the meantime MPs who were just gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50238	If we have any more suggestions before that for, give us more for these helpers in the count, 2 we have give us another 2. Can I put it on then? Here is Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, Mrs. Alenka Košisa Chicin-Sain, Silvano Hrelja and. Mrs. Ingrid can't because she is a candidate, a. Slavko Linić. Let's try again for a second. ... And there are Zdenka Babić Petričević and Tomislav Culjak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we have six helpers, and these are powerful helpers, they're strong forces interparliamentary. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. I announce that a total of 152 MPs have received 89 MPs for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council in the line of deputy state attorneys, 89 MPs voted. No invalid ballots. And I declare that for members of the State Attorney's Council of State, Zeljko Krpan, Zlata Hrvoj-Šipek, Dragan Novosel, Zvezdna Verk, Josip Chule and Vlado Sirotic were elected. Of the 152 voters, a ballot for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council of Law professors received 89 and 89 MPs voted. No invalid ballots. The candidates received the following votes: Branko Babac 67, Davor Krapac 20, Vladimir Ljubanovic 70, Miomir Matulović 11, Zvonimir Slakoper 4, Goran Tomašević 5. I declare that Professor Vladimir Ljubanovic and Professor Branko Babac have been elected as members of the State Attorney's Board of Law professors. Of the 152 voters, the voter's ballot for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council of MPs received 89, 89 voted. Two of them are invalid ballots. The candidates received the following votes: Ingrid Antičević-Marinović 43, Anto Đapić 11, William Herman 11, Ana Lovrin 24, Milorad Pupovac 14, Emil Tomljanović 58. I declare that Emil Tomljanović and Ingrid Antičević-Marinović were elected as members of the National Attorney's Council of the Croatian Parliament. That's how the jury got rid of it. Congratulations to the members of the State Attorney's Council and I wish them a lot of success in their work. And I especially thank the MPs and the MPs who helped the secretary and the secretary count and welcome, the welcome girls. And I invite you all to lemonade.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50240	We move to the point - The appointment of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia The proposal was submitted by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with Article 70. Court law. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. I'm opening a debate. Does the secretary of state want to say anything on behalf of the ministry? No, I don't. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50241	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I have reported on behalf of the HSP club to say just a few words about this proposal to appoint judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which includes the appointment of judges in the county courts. There's only one thing I'd like to warn you about. One goes on to say this debate and a tape of debates for the appointment of a lawyer for children. We've only got names and last names of people with their addresses in this proposal. We heard about the Justice Department claim that it's actually just formalism. If it is formalism, then why is the need for the Croatian Parliament to discuss it and make a decision? We claim that when we make a decision on something, then we must have a responsibility if we place someone and appoint them for something. In fact, we should actually first adopt here a rule on minimum criteria that would apply to individual persons we propose to judge jurors. We don't even see who these people are. Are those competent to decide something in court? Could these people be punished? Are they working? We believe that people who are not able to work should not make decisions as judges. We still don't know if a large part of the people involved are unemployed, Croatian defenders. We don't know anything about these people. So with this debate, I just wanted to warn you that this is not formalism, nor should it be formalism. That's why the HSP club can't support this decision by the Justice Department to appoint jury judges because these people can be ideal, but at this point we don't know anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50242	Thank you. I'm closing the debate because no one else answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50243	Proposal, appointment of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 76 votes for, 18 abstentions and 4 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50244	And we move to - Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, First Reading, P.Z. No. 360 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The start of the new Croatian legislation could be marked on the date of January 1st, 98th, when a new Croatian Penal Code was passed. It's been applied more than, so seven years and so far has been changed four times. Impression, impression and it seems to me that from the beginning, so when the first new Croatian law was passed, not the first but new Croatian law in 98, which was meant to meet some standards and all these changes so far, the last one was in July 2004, which was the same goal for all of them, which is to achieve one of the fundamental principles of the Croatian Constitution and the Criminal Rights, which is the regulation and application of repression within the limits of its necessity and appropriate dangers for protected values of good. Therefore, the task of Croatia, each law of criminal law in fact, is to prescribe through certain criminal acts of that type and measures of criminal sanctions for those offences, penalties for perpetrators of criminal offences where they are suitable necessary for criminal coercion on the one hand and its appropriateness of the strength and nature of the threat to the personal freedoms and rights of man and other social values. In that sense, let me just quote something, speaking of this gene from the Bill proposal, which was proposed in 97 years and came into force on January 1st, 98. "The tendency of criminal law, criminal policy and criminal law through law, both material law, criminal law, and, gradually, the Law on procedure which is a procedural means is that the limits for the regulation of penalties for certain criminal offences are broad enough for the possibility of individualising penalties on the one hand and avoiding too many serious and easier forms of individual offence. And by prescribing such borders, upper and lower borders, a wide enough framework is created, but not a wide enough framework to achieve the principle of individualisation of penalties. Therefore, taking into account all the circumstances, difficult and extenuating circumstances in the conduct of a particular criminal offence in order to punish the perpetrator of a criminal offence in a judicial proceedings for this criminal offence." We often face legal science among practitioners in this hall and in the public with discussions on whether we are achieving this goal. So does criminal legislation satisfy that task on the one hand and whether court practice follows through the regulation of penalties of that law enforcement. And it's often said that punishments are too mild. Whether punishments are too mild or too harsh an answer is not unambiguous. And it depends, in fact, on our assessment, on how we prescribed penalties on the one hand, and on how they apply in that same practice. And it's often said that punishments are too mild. Maybe they are, sometimes they are, sometimes they aren't. We are talking here about court practice as a particular source of the creation of this criminal policy, i.e. by prescribing penalties for individual crimes. And when we talk about penalties for crimes, we often knowingly or unconsciously forget that the punishment prescribed for a particular crime cannot be observed only and exclusively within the limits of the punishment prescribed for this crime. All other circumstances affecting the level of penalties and which are not prescribed in the specific section should also be taken into account. Therefore, in a particular part of this criminal offence, which states what is the upper and lower limit of that crime than in the general provisions relating to the possibility of acquittal, parole and the like. Starting with these objectives, the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, proposed certain amendments in July, were adopted, and announced after the completion of the first phase of the second phase of the amendments and the addition of criminal legislation, which is now in the form of this Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code in front of you in the first reading where, after one truly thorough analysis, evaluations and scientific and professional and in practice, a further discussion of changes to criminal legislation would be made in order to change from one side through the amendments to the legislation, so that, where it has proved truly necessary and necessary, in order to achieve the objective of repression where it is necessary, stricter punishment in certain criminal offences, and also to satisfy the objectives of the criminal legislation. So in the first phase, we have already served criminal offences by about 2% of the total number of penalties prescribed in the amendments and additions to criminal law. Now further amendments and additions of certain criminal offences are proposed in this Bill's first reading. They are detailed through one table in the assessment of the situation in the light of this Law and their analysis shows that, the increased penalties for approximately 13.5% of the crimes. So, in total, the first and second phases, that was about 15% of the crime. This seems to be true in certain criminal acts in different ways. Whether the type of penalty is changed, therefore, there is no more fines or only changes to the upper, or lower limit or both limits of penalties. Furthermore, as I said, other changes and additions have been made to prevent the application of institutes, general institutes, where it should be truly appropriate to reduce the risk of committed crime further. Thus, amendments have been made to provisions relating to the possibility of imposing minor penalties than those prescribed in the law. So there's been an intervention on the detention institute. So the courts will be on their own, so the judges will be further restricted when they express the fines, and we think that this will actually result in an indirect tightening of the fines by about 50% incrimination. Also for serious crimes, when they are committed in acquisition, if they are not subject to the penalty of a long-term prison, instead of the largest today, the previous pardon prescribed prison sentence of 15 years is allowed to impose a single prison sentence of up to 20 years. Furthermore, the punishment of a long - term prison will be given to the perpetrator who turned 18 years old, not until now until he turned 21 years old. Any mitigation of the sentence in addition to this amendment relating to the judicial mitigation of the sentence is prescribed for the offence committed. It won't be possible for any reduction anymore... but only in case someone was reduced to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to a significant extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of serious criminal offences here, stricter provisions have been amended as regards the possibility of applying a conditional conviction. According to the current law, a conditional conviction could, or could, be applied to the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 10 years has been prescribed by law, if provisions on the mitigation of the sentence have been applied. With this proposal for a law, this possibility would no longer apply to judicial mitigation. Also, this Law makes intervention when it comes to particularly serious criminal offences for which the law provides for the punishment of a long-term prison. Namely, when it is imposed for such crimes, the punishment of a long-term prison by applying these general institutes, such as parole, could have been released after, say, 15 years. It is now amended to provide for a provision of that law in respect of parole in the case of such offences for which a long-term prison can be imposed, so that someone cannot be released on parole and before he endures 2/3 of the sentence. So, if he was sentenced to 40 years in prison, so maximum, he couldn't be released through parole before the 30-year sentence. In this House is often debated and also in the professional public about an institute, which is the Institute of Obsolete. Why crimes are being prosecuted or not processed is often said to be the main culprit because it has become obsolete. It's a complex question of why obsolescence can be seen from multiple angles and views. The question is when the case comes before, in a position to prosecute, whether the competent authorities first supplied the information to the police, or to the State's attorney. Where a State Attorney's Office has initiated proceedings and clearly, then the court as the authority responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings and the decision on the existence of a criminal offence may intervene at all. However, recognising the need to intervene and this institute in order to prevent the limitation of certain crimes here, the limitation deadlines in criminal prosecution for shorter crimes are changed, because there are also the shortest time limits. Unlike what is often thought of by outdated deadlines for these severe crimes which include acts indeed... Crimes are large, in extreme cases, up to 50 years in particularly serious criminal offences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I'm talking about the absolute deadlines of limitations. This proposal also amends those provisions of the law relating to the protection of political officials, of course for the offences committed against them in the conduct of their duties. And the interventions done also, not only in prison sentences, or in fines as a form of criminal sanctions, but also in security measures. It may often be garbage with the mind because the strongest measures are those prisons or fines that criminal law and criminal policy must be acted both preventively and can be achieved through action and through security measures, so it is a punishment, but on the other hand, and one reminder and the need to raise his awareness of such offences in a manner that changes in the provisions of security measures relating to the ban on the exercise of the duty, which will now, instead of for a maximum duration of 5 years, be imposed for a maximum period of 10 years, so in a double time than the current law. An increase of maximum measures from 5 to 10 years has been proposed in the case of a repeat act, and such a ban may be applied to the perpetrator forever, and in the safety measures of compulsory medical treatment extended and measures from 3 to 5 years of age and practice have shown that such cases are really difficult to prevent and the processing of such works is difficult to propose this extension. In a series of amendments to the additions to certain criminal offences where even the description of the criminal offence and the limits of the penalty prescribed are changed, certain adjustments have been made in the criminal offences of economic crime, but also in this Law changes have been made concerning the possibility, the greater possibility of confiscation of property benefit achieved by organised crime. In particular, it is proposed to amend the proposal to provide that the property benefit of the criminal offence being committed is to be regarded as the one which has been achieved by a group of people or a criminal organisation which is in a time-related relationship with the offence committed and which can be found to be originating from that offence, as its legal origin cannot be established. That's what they're in line with... International criminal law significantly extends the concept of property benefit to be taken away by a court ruling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, I find it to me, in short, the essential fundamental indications of the amendment proposal and the addition of this text of the Penal Code, which is proposed as another stage, so one whole stage with first amendments and additions, the first stage adopted in July of this year. And let us finally announce, hopefully when this text passes the amendments and the addition of the law in the first reading and is referred to the parliamentary procedure as the Final Proposal of the Law in the second reading with additional proposals, suggestions, remarks, so the amendments resulting from the debate on this bill in the first reading. What is often the subject of a public debate at this time, which is a matter of criminal acts, slanders and insults, or criminal acts against honor, and respects, in particular, the so-called crime. Journalist slanders, or I would prefer the expression of such crimes against honor and reputation committed in public words, because it is not just about journalists, it can also be done through other means of public communication, i.e. dealing with scientific, professional, cultural and other areas where something is created and presented to the public. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considered as proposing that a major step has already been made through the amendments and amendments to the law so far when the exclusion of the illegality of that act has been done through the provision of Article 203 when, in fact, the area of criminalisation of that act has been significantly constrained, i.e. where it could have been considered and it was necessary to prove that such a criminal offence exists only if it was proved to be a matter of conduct which was intended only to harm someone's honor and reputation and burden of evidence was transferred, i.e. to the Prosecutor. The latest event and the controversy that was conducted in public through, is either tied up or offered, prompted by court rulings, has shown that there should be room and that further changes in legislation in this area should be considered. Therefore, in addition to these changes that have been made that the case law nevertheless does not follow this change at sufficient pace or speed, and that it should consider that the sentence of imprisonment in this criminal offence, and then some other criminal offences, for one balanced approach to criminal policy and for other criminal offences, and not only for such penalties against honor and respect, should be changed in such a way that the criminal offence as in particular when it was committed, is put on the one hand, i.e. for such offences at all, the sentence of imprisonment is lifted and that only fines should be left. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will, and I assume there will be more proposals and additions to such a change in this direction, will be proposed in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50246	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? The Justice Committee, Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Committee. [[Intruder: Justice Committee.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. At the 32nd session held on 8 November 2005, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 October 2005. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for a Law discussed as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the Minister of Justice noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code are a long phase of changing criminal legislation. Proposed changes in fines have been tightened by 15% incrimination, and courts are limited in the ability to impose milder penalties than prescribed by law. For serious crimes committed in possession, if they are not subject to a long-term prison sentence, a single prison sentence of up to 20 years is allowed. The sentence of a long-term prison will also be given to the perpetrator who turned 18 years old. Milder punishment than prescribed punishment for the offence committed will be possible only in the case of reduced numberingness to a significant extent. The suspension of persons sentenced to long-term imprisonment is limited, a lengthy period of outdated prosecution is proposed, criminal and legal protection of police officers in their affairs has been strengthened, protection of victims of domestic violence has been strengthened. The proposal intervenes in security measures for effective preventive action, increased repression against corruption, an extended concept of property benefit. The question of decriminalization of journalistic slander has also been addressed. The board members are familiar with the position of the task force on decriminalisation of libel. In the debate, the committee members unanimously supported the proposed amendments and complemented them by stressing that they represent continuity in relation to earlier amendments to criminal legislation. The draft working group leader stressed that in every country on the Criminal Law as the strongest instrument of repression, consensus should be reached on the strategy of such repression because the Penal Code can declare prevention but it acts in a limited scope. The first amendments to criminal legislation have been made to obligations under international contracts. These changes seem to remain in segments including enhanced protection of family members and the non-marriage community, enhanced police protection. The most important in these changes sees the relationship between criminal-legal repression prescribed in the law and how the judicial authority applies. It is a public perception that the criminal policy of the courts does not match the will of the legislator. With the participation of judges of the Supreme Court and judges of the county courts who have worked on these amendments, these changes limit the possibility of mitigation under the law of the prescribed limit for a particular criminal offence. Likewise, the legal limits prescribed were increased when it was necessary for public perception and court practice to be much more consistent with the legislation's will. Judges may be dissatisfied because in finding humane relief circumstances in a particular case they will be limited but this restriction must go in favour of general security and state intervention where it is most dangerous. On the proposal for amendments and additions, the committee members delivered the following opinions and findings. A significant restriction on the use of a conditional conviction for serious criminal offences, the tightening of repression for corruptive crimes, and the confiscation of the property benefit which is found to be originating in a criminal offence has been assessed. The complex issue of economic crimes has been highlighted as a complex political issue. These amendments have made certain adjustments in the descriptions of criminal offences and the tightening of penalties in the area of economic crime. For other amendments, the Proposer is of the opinion that they should not be proposed, in particular, as in certain cases whose proceedings may have been pending, the question of the application of a milder law and the decriminalisation of certain behaviours, and possibly more stringent by law, could have an impact on these cases because the law could not be applied retroactively. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: "A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be made in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up a final draft of the law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Vice President Carmel Caparin for the absence of Mrs Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50249	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs! The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament held at the 28th session on 14th and 15th November 2005 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 6 October 2005. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative met the committee with the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, which relate to the harmonisation of the prescribed and applied criminal repression against the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences, leading to the tightening of penalties. It is also pointed out that the proposed amendments strengthen the legal protection of the family, extend the incrimination for child abuse, extend the deadlines of limitation, extend the circle of persons who can be considered perpetrators of domestic violence, and limit the possibility of easing the minimum penalty measures, increase the minimum of prescribed penalties, increase the maximum at the present minimum or increase both measures. The Committee supports the proposed amendments to the laws relating to amendments to the criminal frameworks in a way that raises the lower penalty measure for crimes against life and the body, crimes against sexual freedom, sexual disorder and crimes against marriage, family and youth. It is pointed out in the debate that penalties, i.e. the lower measures of the prescribed penalties, are too mild when it comes to case law. Namely, an analysis of the case law has shown that the judicial selection of penalties for perpetrators of criminal offences tends to move towards the minimum sentence prescribed for a particular offence. After the debate was held, the members and members of the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions: "A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code No. 360th, first reading. Second, opinions, objections, and proposals will be presented in the debate to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50251	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 24 November 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the draft law on the basis of a reform of the judiciary. The Committee believes that the amendments and additions to this law will be important in addressing the problem of increasing crime, however, it believes that greater attention should be given to addressing the rise in economic crime. The Committee also supported the proposed tightening of repression for individual offences as well as the extension of limitation periods. The text of the draft law was also made up of the following concrete observations by the members of the Committee. In Article 5(5) of the Law, the relevant name of the Penal Code should be provided in place of the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Article 11 shall examine the need to apply a security measure prohibiting the management of a motor vehicle forever. The provision of Article 12 should be clarified in a way to delete the words "which is in a time-related relationship with the offence committed." It is recalled that the proposed date of entry into force of this law is set out in Article 122, which is unreal as stated on 1 December 2005. The Committee also stressed that, given the proposed increase in repression and the situation in the penitentiary for the implementation of this law, funding in the state budget will still need to be provided. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code is adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50252	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first on behalf of the IDS Club is Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50253	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mrs. Bagic, the esteemed gentlemen of the council! Well, it's hard to talk about some reform of criminal law, but it's certainly about serious amendments to the Penal Code, because if anything else, it's about changing sanctions for 70 incriminations. So it's a comprehensive policy, a comprehensive change in the policy of punishment, so the criminal code deals, I don't know, with the kidnapping of top state officials, anti-state terrorism, diversions, publication of the content of state military secrets, international terrorism, various other discrimination, hijacking of aircraft, maritime aviation, rapes, sexual relations with an powerless person. Yesterday or today in the evening I read the case... to which we should really react, see if it's a true event or if it's an exaggeration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that I'm not counting everything else, it's mostly about increasing those criminal charges unlike this false testimony, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, so far there's been a suspended sentence from six months to five years, and now it's not like that anymore, but only here, if I'm not mistaken, there's been a reduction in prison sentences, or measures, and here's a fine or prison sentence prescribed for up to three years. However, for my incomprehensible reasons it has been bypassed, or defamation has been bypassed, and at times when our judges, I dare say, have lost weight with reality, so they have recently imposed more sentence of imprisonment on Croatian writers, journalists, free thinking individuals, who are also seriously transformed into the drive of written, or spoken words. It simply must not be Croatia, it must not be the legal standard of the Republic of Croatia. On this occasion, I will list only a few people who, as such, have found themselves under the press of our courts, Robert Frank the journalist of the New List sentenced to three months conditionally per year,... The prison for the positions of Ksenija Linic, head of the office of the city of Rijeka, Ljubica Letinić, a journalist of HTV, was sentenced to 2 months, conditionally for a year, because she contributed to corruption in Split's city government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vladimir Matjanic, a journalist, mentioned Igor Štimec in his texts in the context of arms and military equipment smuggling and car theft and reselling, which is why Stimac was questioned in 92. Predrag Matvejevic, who was recently sentenced to 5 months, has been suspended to two years in prison for using a metaphor that offended Mila Pesord, the case of our Taliban. Slavica Mrkic-Modric, journalist of Novi list, was sentenced to two months, conditional on a year because she wrote in the column that Mrs. Ksenija Linic was standing in line at the Rijeka Bank and the text was dedicated to the Rijeka Bank's business affair. Elijah... Retired Free Dalmatia journalist has been sentenced to 6000 kuna because at a press conference, the Association of Proponents has accused one of the Split state's attorneys of deliberately suppressing claims against the converters and political officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will repeat again, so these names are meant for Robert Frank, journalist of the New List, Ljubica Letinići journalist of HTV, Vladimir Matjanić journalist of Feral, Predrag Matvejevic, Slavica Mrkić-Modric and from the New List or Mršić the Journalist of Free Dalmatia, etc., etc.. We will all probably agree that this practice of our courts has gone beyond measure. All countries, the sea and Croatia are clearly familiar with the libel. To be clear, I don't think journalists on God's day are always right, that their infallible, but the prison sentence should be deleted and that's the point. But not only that, I'm aware of what the media can do to you on the other hand, probably no one can do to you. I am also aware that today the power in this country is concentrated primarily in the government, which has over 100 billion kunas with all these public enterprises in large capital that have somehow placed Croatian judges under their control mainly in the context of convictions for conversion and privatisation, when they have imposed two suspended sentences and two fines and finally power in this country is primarily in the media in Croatia radio television, whatever Parliament, which advocates. However, the Parliament must regulate this society and must encourage, or rather defend, the freedom of public word. Now, what we do is do what we do to offend and defamation from the Penal Code, it is hardly an insult that we will succeed, and slander is known to all European countries, but one thing is certain. The penalty of the law should be abolished for slander and that should be one minimum. However, we can transfer some more slander and insult from criminal law to civil code. And I think that would be an opportunistic moment at this point, and for such a principle, IDS stands for it. So it remains slander, it remains an insult, but no one will be treated as a criminal for it. And that's the point. God forbid that on the other hand one of the politics, he doesn't know, controls the judges, but what's happening on that stage on these issues is at least becoming alarming. Judges were, perhaps, some today are in politics, were, some are against freedom of speech and letters, but that's something that this community compromises and that kind of practice cannot be supported. In the last 15 years, we will all agree that the critical word has been contained in various ways. He came in on January 3rd saying it's easier to breathe, so that's the effects of bronchia. However, as early as January 4th, they realized that they were living primarily from money, from what you have in your pocket, but Croatia was starting to change. Unfortunately this cost the judiciary was still closer to that one of its world supervisors and that's what I would say and determine this matter that I was talking about. Unfortunately, and the people from that... spectrum called for slander, even though they will say, if they don't treat it like civil law, then we use the institutes where they are in the criminal code and that's quite logical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year, when we changed what Mrs. Snježana Bagic was talking about, the penal law, more specifically this Article 203. We believed that the slanderers had put a globular stake in the heart, unfortunately she reincarnated, she somehow resuscitated. So there was this formula that was established, it was found that there was no criminal act, and I quote: "...unless significant expressions clearly result in behaviour which was intended only to harm someone's honor and reputation.". Let's not be so naive that we don't have that kind of behavior with our journalists, there's a lot of it. And often some of them do it that way. It is clear that they will also receive support from those editors, legal protection, that they will often be in a better position than the prosecutors who, for example, must bear the costs but no matter what, IDS advocates that I will once again relocate this matter from the criminal code to civil law. On the one hand, Croatia may have the most liberal criminal legislation, and in these examples, we see when slander is the most rigid case law on Wednesday. And the question is, how is that possible? Why is something like this even possible in the Republic of Croatia? How is it that no one in Croatia has been convicted of hate speech and is being punished on the other side of Predrag Matvejevic? How can Croatia walk in Ustasha uniforms and be punished, for example, satire? I'll repeat that for the third time, the responsibility of journalists is also great because what they can do to you probably nobody can. But this substance of slander and insult simply bearing in mind what kind of court practice we must not remain in the criminal code to keep hanging as the sword of Demakal over critics and the public. Thirdly, it is likely that this could be done to change the Media Act or modify the Media Act and leave the fine behind. It is, I have read this proposal by Mrs. Laburić as a mechanism which can be called on by anonymous persons, and people from the public to possibly call for compensation in one symbolic amount, even though a public person can in any way suffer real material damage from our journalists and there is absolutely no dilemma there. I am particularly pleased to have more penalties for the robbery, although these penalties have been large so far, but I still prefer that, say recently, the interior minister, Mr Kirin, admitted or finally admitted that part of the police, part of the police, was involved in crime in the Republic of Croatia. This is evident because without their transport, one bank or one savings bank would not be robbed every other day, and that on the other hand only 50, up to 60% of those perpetrators would be discovered. However, it is no wonder that no more of them can be discovered at all when we see the fate of this service 112, which was blocked during yesterday, and anyone who could possibly and possibly ask for some help or give some information could not because the competent ministry did not pay them phone bills, so the competent phone service for not paying them off. It's like, gentlemen, blocking the control tower and still flying over your heads or over your city. It was announced during yesterday that your backlogs would be settled because you really want to influence something like this, you can't do anything about it, you can't do anything about it. But what also surprised me was that in 100,000 inhabitants the largest number of crimes i.e. There's a report in Istria. So the space of the Pula Police Administration, 3879 applications. In Zagreb, 3762 means two, 100 % less. In Sibenik 2916, in Rijeka 2745 while the Croatian average is 2177. I don't know, I'm not going to comment on that. There's probably a lot more up-to-date than what's here for the end of what we're actually doing. Once again, I'm going to say we're raising the penalties that have been high so far, but perhaps it would be better to work on prevention in some way. Without preventing the punishment itself, it won't bring anything. And we're all aware of that, but it's the easiest thing to hide behind new penalties, to show it to God's reforms, but we're also aware that it's not really going to solve anything. And now once again for the end, I will repeat the names of the people who have been accused of slander. These are: Robert Frank, journalist of Novi list, Ljubica Letinić, journalist of HTV, Vladimir Matjanić, journalist Feral, Predrag Matvejevic, Slavica Mrkić-Modric, journalist of Novi list, Ilija Maršić, journalist of Free Dalmatia, and there are no other gentlemen who simply move this slander from criminal law to civil law. Once again, I will say that Croatia may have the most liberal criminal legislation, but on the matter when slander is due to probably the most rigid court practice and this court practice when we cannot change then there is nothing left for us to change our own Penal Code. And the question really arises how is it possible in the Republic of Croatia at all, why does this happen, how is it that no one in this country has been convicted, for hate speech, and one Matević, one Frank, or I don't know any other journalist who deals with satire. One word should not run away from the truth that the responsibility of journalists is also great, but I repeat the place of slander with such court practice cannot be a place in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50254	Thank you very much. There's one correction, Mr. Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50255	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations that it is necessary to remove the libel from the legislation or to defend the press. I don't think he's that lawyer or me or anyone to defend the press because I'm saying that journalists can't put themselves in the spotlight because they're not guilty at all. It takes courage and guts for a politician to say that the problem is about media ownership. There's a huge struggle all over the world for power over the media. We see what happens in Slovenia and in their referendum. We see the situation around the brewery and buying Del, we see a fight in Italy. We see a fight in any country. It's one big battle of the political and economic elite to master the media. And journalists fearing for their existence, which is quite clear, they simply have to follow media owners' policies, as well as the editorial college. ... That. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50256	Thank you, thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the Club, the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50257	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with your co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the government, for the fourth time since its term of office, proposes to the Parliament to amend the Penal Code. So we can freely count and claim that we have amendments to the Penal Code. And maybe if this pace continues somewhere before the end of the term if the government endures to the end and if the government gets the courage and then renovates economic incrimination, then maybe we go back to that initial position that we had in 2003, that famous novel that almost solved all the currents that are right here trying to change the government like this to the wars gradually. To see one unserious and unfounded and superficial work, the fact that here we are now discussing changes and a new amendment on insult and slander is being prepared. And when last year we proposed an identical situation to make it impossible for the media, we were rejected for journalists at all. What's more, the government said it was impossible because there are all the crimes they know and alternatively a certain prison sentence that is not true at all. And it turned out, however, that the government under pressure only acts publicly. In the light of this proposal, it is stated that the proposaling strategy has been a strengthening of repression. And the tightening of repression is also said in more places later. Indeed, such a principle of orientation should be agreed on because the excessive mildness and ineffectiveness of the Croatian criminal justice system questioned trust in the legal system. It was also one of the ideas of a novelty leader on July 9th, 2003. But then the head of the task force just attacked the government at the time, saying, and now it's being quoted and going on the trail, but literally that's exactly what the government then has been told. Also, opposition MPs at the time said that it was simply illusory to expect sharp sentences to effectively combat crime. I don't know if now that the rulings have left this position, but in any case in several places you can't even see what the government's position is because, from the very explanation, it says that I am quoting it. "In the assessment of the criminal policy of the legislator and the judicial authorities, it comes from the wrong thesis of criminal policy success as a result of increased criminal repression," so we do not know what the government's position is and what essentially the proposer wants to achieve this change. There's really something special to be said about the outdated prosecution and the execution of the sentence. The proposal provides for the extension of deadlines of both types of outdated and only in the case of the easiest criminal offences, i.e. those for whom a prison sentence can be imposed up to three years and from two to three years old. This is in line with the November 2003 solution and means at least one partial abandonment of the earlier rigid attitude of the opponent of the novel. However, the question arises as to why they are not tightened, i.e. the increased deadlines of antiquity for serious crimes. For example, the perpetrator of the fraud that has provided considerable property benefit, so the fraud that has provided millions of dollars can be punished by imprisonment for up to five years, so the limitation period according to the current law is 5 years. I think it's very difficult to defend, and you can imagine what indifferences judicial practice will have, that is, that this application of such a criminal law will lead to some illogicality, what kind of alarm both misunderstandings and confusion of the public will lead to. So are we going to blame the judiciary again for being guilty of what's not really wrong? So I'm going to name a whole series of solutions that just lead to a debalas of certain crimes inside the head and the relationship between the heads. More criminal legislation in this way, given that we are changing it in part, does not take account of the wholeness and balance, the whole meaning and balance of the Penal Code has been disturbed and the balance of the Penal Code, and we must make sure that it is a law that is very effective, i.e. affects citizens because it deals with its most sensitive issues, its freedom and its property. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the explanation of the proposal in the part where it is claimed that the extended limitation deadlines can only apply to a criminal offence which was committed after the entry into force of such changes is not true or is not entirely true. Of course, it is clear that the deadlines cannot be extended if the statute of limitations has taken place. However, it is not true that it cannot be extended by law by an limitation period if the statute of limitations still runs on the existing one. This was taught by all of us by the late Zlatarić, and this is the attitude taken by our case-law, the supreme court instance of Croatia, and the promoter is invited to train himself a little bit in the case of court practice, as well as textbooks starting with Professor Zlatarić, Bačić and more, as well as Professor Novoselc. The increase in the specific minimum measures and the mitigation of the fines comes from the unequivocal fact that the mitigation of penalties in the practice of Croatian courts has taken alarming proportions, and it is the fact that the courts are largely applying the so-called judicial mitigation of penalties under which the penalty may also be mitigated on the basis of particularly pronounced relief circumstances. The Institute is conceived in law as an exception and has become unfortunately a practice. However, seeking a way out of such a situation, the proposal offers a solution which is unacceptable for several reasons and will most likely bring more damage than benefits. Why? On the one hand, the proposal in Article 6 limits the possibility of mitigation and, on the other hand, gives rise to specific minimum measures in some criminal cases. The proposed solution contains marked weaknesses. On the one hand, the difference between the basic and qualified forms of a serious crime is insufficiently expressed, so we have a whole series of examples of equalising the specific minimum of the basic part and the qualified part. So please imagine what this will bring into practice? I repeat this speech about the surface of the prepared proposal. And from the persistent whim that the offered solutions we already have are used, that is to say, to be further advanced if the proposer is not satisfied with it. The rise in special, minimum measures deserves criticism for other reasons. It is not clear at all why some works have raised the minimum, and others have not. Even where it is increased, we can agree with that precisely in order to oust judicial practice, the judiciary to make less use of easing punishment, that we otherwise know each other every time and when it does not ease moves around the minimum. But it's completely incomprehensible, which is why the proposer insists on raising the fines for property crimes, and on economic crime that we don't even talk about. There's not a word there. In the case of parole, narrowing the possibility of firing a person sentenced to a long-term prison is essentially one concession for those who represented the need to introduce life imprisonment. However, it is difficult to defend some of the principles. If the Penal Code knows only one prison sentence, that is, If a long-term prison is only one form of prison sentence, it is unclear why in a long-term prison, the general assumption of granting parole is that persons sentenced to jail sentences. In addition, the proposed new provision of Article 55, under which the parole of a person sentenced to a longer term prison is granted under the conditions I now quote "which are set out in the Law on the Execution of Criminal Sanctions". Such a law no longer exists. There's a law on the execution of a prison sentence. So, this is also about the speed of the promoter, about something that cannot be tolerated in any proposal, and especially not in the proposal of the Penal Code. So, that the promoter had confused the laws, that is, did not follow the changes that occurred in the meantime. That's inadmissible. In the event of the imposition of a new proposed provision in Article 60(2), the sentence of imprisonment shall be waived for a maximum period of 15 years. It's also something that's going to cause a lot of doubt. In this way, it was possible for prison sentences to range from 15 to 20 years, which was not possible in the case of prison sentences. It remains unclear why this gap of 15 to 20 years was filled only in this case but not generally as foreseen in November 2003, which extended the duration of the prison sentence to 20 years. In the end, there will be severe illogicalities, for example, in the collection of certain penalties. Thus, robbery as a serious crime of theft will not apply to specific forms of criminal offences in such an example because they are the same weights and are not justified in applying different frameworks in the expression of a single penalty. In both cases, therefore, a prison sentence of up to 20 years could be imposed. The new proposed provision of Article 60(2) (d) of the KZ is missing as it determines only the highest and not the minimum measure of uniform penalty. This way, according to the new proposed text, it would be possible for the single sentence to be smaller than individual penalties, which would be of course pointless, and in the case of the most difficult acts of robbery. For security measures, here is a proposal to extend the duration of certain safety measures, even a ban on driving a motor vehicle forever. It is wrong, however, to restrict such a prohibition to perpetrators of criminal offences against the security of traffic caused by the death of one or more persons because the basis for its statement is an increased risk to the perpetrator, not the consequences of the offence. Therefore, as a condition for the ban on driving a motor vehicle, it would be more correct to prescribe that the maximum legal period will not be sufficient to eliminate dangers. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that a ban on driving a motor vehicle is imposed forever, and that the public's expectations were persistently rejected, although the penalty for life imprisonment was such as to introduce exceptional cases of the most serious forms of criminal offences for those in a special return. In the end, there was also one study on this, but it is unclear why here, and the promoter himself says that he did research even though the former coalition government had conducted such research. More than 75% of people expect such punishment and consider it just and deserved in certain cases. But with a perseverance cap, the proposer doesn't want it, and you don't know why. Taking advantage of the property may be exactly an opportunity to state how to this extent this measure is to be welcomed but completely undeveloped and it can indeed serve as an example of how laws should not be written. Please, will the judge, because it is related to the time-consequence by committing crimes, whether the judge will list the calendar and will say to this extent it is possible, or from this date, that money is most often the property found by the perpetrator in connection with this crime, and then beyond that date is not. So you can imagine, because even the proposer has in mind how courts think, how they work, and what kind of misunderstandings this is going to cause in court practice. And what's even more worrying is what's not in this Penal Code, and what's a big step back from what we had in the novel of 2003, these are economic crimes, and that's the reshaping of fines and the crime of great fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian states and ideologies for which our prime minister ordered the ministry from last year's meeting of the government last year at the 8th month, ordered the ministry to make such preparations for the Penal Code. That's not what happened now. Are we going to conclude that this is how the public was re-falsified, or is simply the proposing that he did not take care of it and he forgot about it. So what I'm particularly apostrophe is exactly the lack of new economic crimes that the head of this task force is for in '97. for years we have socialist administrative economic crimes that do not correspond to the reality of market economy. In the end, and literally, Mr Horvatic said, it is one relic in our criminal law. And it is completely incomprehensible, which is why the proponent of the final incrimination he has in the novel is not useful, which is modelled by German criminal law. This shall also be ignored in advance by the obligations of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 69. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their countries and the Member States because we should already have our legislation in this regard, economic incrimination is in line with the legal course. Apparently, the promoter booked this somewhere for the end of the term. Perhaps a few more years when a wave of old and something that is possible to process and establish such justice will only then do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50258	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Ms. Anticevic Marinovic incorrectly mentioned that the crimes in the sphere of economic crime did not increase and that they were not incriminating. This is incorrect because here in, we have an unconscious economic business that has increased from fines or fines to 3 years in prison to a minimum prison sentence of 3 months to 3 years, a qualified form from 6 months to 5 years, to one year to 5 years, and also to receive bribes in economic business, which is increased to a minimum of one year to 8 years, with an absolute limitation period of 16 years, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50260	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50261	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, taking it primarily as a completion of the Government of Croatia's project in order to achieve the objective of constitutional policy of reducing and combating crime to criminal material law, as a criminal-political instrument for the protection of fundamental constitutional values, human rights and freedoms, but in line with the strongest standards for universal opposition to all forms of crime. Therefore, changes in criminal law, seen in both stages, are part of the systematic whole of the interlinked content and indeed in this segment the full reform of the judiciary. It is the system of criminal justice that is particularly important in this reform, but whose effective action absolutely needs to be taken into account by other provisions of other laws. In the first order of the provisions of the Law on Violations, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Police, the Law on the Violation of Criminal Sanctions and the Organisation of Criminal and Criminal Courts. At the first priority stage already mentioned, the amendments and additions to the Penal Code itself were primarily limited to the first harmonisation of criminal legislation with the obligations of international law, i.e. international obligations. Furthermore, re-juvenations regarding freedom of the media and criminal repression for violation of honor and reputation. Next, rejuvenations on possible use of criminalisation of possession and abuse of intoxicating drugs. Then, judgments on criminal-political justification for interventions in criminal offences of economic crime, and judgments on an urgent change in criminal repression in criminal offences with elements of violence, against the environment, human health, payment security, business and, of course, other criminal acts. At this stage or in the amendments in question and in addition to criminal law, the amendments relate primarily to. First, I would like to emphasise the security measures in terms of legal intervention in order to make preventive action more effective. So preventive action as it is still referred to in the literature as so-called so-called. Special prevention. Secondly, the really extended deadlines are outdated. Third, changes relating to the crimes of economic crime. Fourth, tightening the repression against corruption. Fifth, changes in relation to incrimination of organised crime. The sixth, criminal protection of police officers in their affairs. And the seventh, forced payment of fines. As for, or in the strategy, a more effective crime prevention policy as a special prevention, but understanding as the insistence that the perpetrator in the future does not repeat criminal activity has been made major changes precisely in the sphere of security measures. This, regardless of the safety level of compulsory psychiatric treatment, bans on the exercise of activity and duties or bans on motor vehicle management. The deadlines for the maximum duration of safety measures, the measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment, the prohibition of the exercise of duty or the prohibition of driving control shall be extended. The deadlines for the maximum duration of the security measures are extended, and here it is particularly necessary to highlight the safety of the ban on driving a motor vehicle proposal that the largest measure so far and the ban on 5 years is raised to 10 years, and in the case of a repeat section against the safety of traffic with deadly consequences, I repeat with the fatal consequences such a ban on the perpetrator may be changed forever. As regards the extension of limitation deadlines, the following should be pointed out. Despite efforts, that is to say, some proposals to prevent the extension of limitation periods from becoming obsolete, as stated, the time and course of conversion of ownership and privatisation, and this occasion should be highlighted, hence the extended limitation periods may apply and apply to the offences which would be or will be committed after the entry into force of this law. But with such changes, and in no situation retroactively to criminal acts or penalties imposed before that. We must stop for a moment, so there is one situation in the application of obsolete deadlines and the calculation of deadlines, and the other in this sense is quite certain when we have a new prescribed criminal act, a new incrimination in the course of its inability to retroactive action. Therefore, there is an extension of time-limits, i.e. by this proposal, not only for the simplest crimes for which the sentence of prison has been imposed up to one year or the penalty of fines, but also for other crimes, but always considering the first specificities of certain offences, so their specificities and secondly, existing limitation periods in relation to the appropriate request of court proceedings within a reasonable period of time and related to the purpose of punishment. So a reasonable deadline compared to the very purpose of punishment. The example is, for the most severe crimes, absolute, so I'm talking about an absolutely obsolete period of 50 years, and accordingly, the other limitation deadlines, i.e. limitation deadlines and other crimes are determined. So much for old-fashioned and out-of-date deadlines as a legal institute. As regards the economic or criminal offences of economic crime, and I would like to emphasise this, they are in line with the commitments made under the Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption, and in particular the changes that have already occurred in criminal offences, the receipt of bribes in economic business, bribery in economic business, illegal business in which part is incriminating and so on. passively illegal business. Subject changes tighten the repression against corruption, and the linear reduction of the possibility of easing prescribed penalties clearly and unequivocally tightens repression against the most characteristic acts of corruption. Furthermore, changes have also been made to counter organised crime. In this place, we also point out the solution that the property benefit obtained is considered a criminal offence also achieved by a group of people or a criminal organisation who, in the time history with a criminal offence committed and which can be considered as originating in that act, because its legal origin cannot be established. Of course, about the illegal property acquired. This solution, and all in accordance with the sources of international criminal law, is significantly expanding the notion of unlawfully acquired property benefit, which is taken away by a court decision and committed, following a criminal offence that has been committed to such benefit. Furthermore, it is also important to highlight the enhanced criminal legal protection of police officers in the performance of their affairs. Now the qualitative forms of this type of crime are now related to these solutions especially to police officers when they do any police work under the Police Act. For the murder of such a person, maximum punishment is provided for as well as for other worst crimes which, in the sense of the legislative proposal, has been met with legitimate aspirations, in particular the service, but the true need to impose the most severe sanctions on that type of criminal offences. Finally, in the light of the absolute need to accept all those solutions relating to the limitation of parole, hence the parole of persons sentenced to long-term prison with all this exposed, of course this proposal or legislative proposal should absolutely be supported. Allow me, at the end of the presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to refer with a few sentences and to the criminal act of slander which has already been discussed in the presentations of my predecessors. The position of our club in relation to this really very current problem actually comes from those positions of the reform of the first phase or the last amendments to criminal legislation in relation to this Article 203. Penalty law. I believe that some things, not only for the clarity of the regulation itself, but also for some of the situations that we had the opportunity to follow in the daily press regarding the application itself, should be clarified, i.e. to highlight the last amendment to this public slander act. This new construction of Article 203 The Penal Code indicates that it will regularly be difficult for the prosecutor to prove that some of the persons in the law, so it is about journalists, writers, critics, etc. she acted only to harm his honor or reputation. This Article shall apply from the date of its publication in the Official The penal code guarantees an extremely broad freedom of expression. So far greater than when it comes to other European countries, and criminal repression contained in Article 200. The penal code is reserved only for the deliberate and malicious deformities of other persons hidden in the form of scientific activities, literary criticism, journalistic reporting, etc. So regardless of these situations that we have had, the intensity of the legislation in terms of reform, i.e. the first phase and the amended article of the Penal Code, went precisely in terms of the protection of these democratic principles of freedom of expression, and the correct application of this article just guarantees freedom of expression on the one hand, but also indeed cross any abuse of that right in the sense of criminality let's say public slander. Furthermore, we absolutely cannot agree with all those assessments of this proposed law, although in this segment, when we talk about the provisions of the Penal Code, of course, it may and always have conflicting opinions that intervention has not been carried out, even in the first and at this stage, in the provisions of those legal articles that incriminate economic crime. It has been committed, incriminating or prescribed a lot of new crimes related to economic crime, penalties have also been strengthened, and therefore the possibilities of antiquated so-called criminal offences and all in all this proposed, so the bill as a quality move in terms of criminal property law in the system of reform of the Croatian judiciary absolutely needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50262	Thank you very much. It is next to the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I hope that the minister, since it is the first reading of the law, will fulfill her promise so that she will indeed resolve that public slander with the amendment of the Government in the second reading of the law, as she has announced. Because this behavior really needs to be decriminalized, but there must also be a very clear responsibility for compensation for damages in the sense that the Law on Mandatory Relations prescribes it, or that Law should be completed. First of all, I'd like to say that it's not too good to change the Penal Code too often because it puts the courts, the state's attorneys, and even the police officers at large. So, all the bodies are being prosecuted. And if it's already done then it's good to always make it thorough, clear, clear, and follow the trend of time in which we are. Namely, why am I saying that? First of all, I have to say that these amendments are really about amendments to 121 articles of which changes in 100 articles are only about tightening, and only in 20 articles are about changes in the substance of criminal offences, which is far more important to me. Namely, when you associate it with the German Penal Code, and he was a role model, it seems to me, to the authors of these changes then I must tell you that let's just say that in terms of the crime of fraud in economic activity, the German criminal law knows a 10-th of a kind of fraud only in economic business. And it's good, or it'd be even better if the German regulations were applied condescendingly, so if you're just going to say and rewrite it because it would follow the moment that we're in today. The other thing I'm trying to say is, as far as old deadlines are concerned. It's mentioned here, but it should be pointed out again. Extensive deadlines have no effect on all crimes committed, no impact whatsoever. Namely, for two reasons. First, when the limitation period is over, the prosecution can no longer be carried out. And when the limitation period runs, the perpetrator always has the right to apply a mild law. The provisions on limitation are material and legal provisions, and the soft law is always the material law. In fact, the procedural law cannot be applied as a soft law, but rather a material law. But I'm afraid of each other. The extension of limitation deadlines, the extension of limitation deadlines may create some alibi for our law enforcement bodies to be a little bit of a leniency so that even the criminal proceedings run slower, that's because the outdated deadlines are extended and I don't think that's good. And that's my suggestion to the Proposer to really see. Thirdly, if someone would ask me if our Penal Code is strict in terms of the level of impediment, I assure you and my discussion, my discussion may be a little different, that the present, in force our Penal Code is just as strict as the strict European regulations. But that's not what I'm talking about in that part of court practice. You know, if the Penal Code were consistently applied and the prosecution was effective, faster, we'd all get the impression here that this is a strict law. Not these changes, but the existing Penal Code. Namely, what do I mean by that? It's not good, it's not good, really, if it's estimated that there's a slowness and trombone of the justice system, it's only to solve it this way. Of course, I agree with the promoter that we really need to settle this matter, but it is not a good problem to resolve the amendments to the Penal Code. Amendments to the Penal Code must go towards their goal, to protect those most valuable state goods. And the effectiveness of criminal persecution is solved in places where this problem exists. First of all, I mean the courts. What am I saying? I want to say if it really was necessary to raise both the upper and lower limits of punishment then it was necessary to do so and explain why it was done. But it is not wise to explain the Law, that is, its aggravation because, behold, courts impose fines. That's not how it works. The other thing, when you lift up, or reduce the difference between the upper and lower limits of punishment, you actually did one good thing, but you did two bad things. It is a good thing that, on the one hand, the case law is brought about in this way. It's bad that it's done by law and it's bad that it goes against the principle of individualization of punishment. So, what's going to happen in practice? It's going to happen like this. The court that judges the perpetrator of the crime will eventually impose a certain penalty. Of course, in terms of sentence, in order for it to be individualized, you must take everything and difficult and easy circumstances. The judge will simply realize that there are both easy and difficult circumstances, but they will not be able to, at least not until the end, apply in view of this trend of these changes. On the other hand, I want to say one more thing that may sound paradoxical, but it's simply true. If today and indeed increased the number of prison sentences imposed would be interesting to hear the proposer who is in our prisons and would, at all, be able to execute it on time, you know? The dispute of justice is slow, but there is still an echo in the public of slow justice. And that's a fact, that's a fact. What I want to suggest to the promoter, we really do have some relics of socialism in this law. I don't want to say that something terrible is going to happen if it doesn't change now, so it's going to change in three months, but some things are really going to stick in your eyes. It is primarily a crime of abuse of position or authority in economic business. That doesn't follow today's trend. Today, at the age of the liberal economy, we cannot have such a criminal act anymore. Namely, for what? Position, authority, these are all features of state administration, public administration. Such a crime cannot simply be, exists at the present stage of the development of the Croatian economy, and when the holder of ownership is clear, he was a state or anyone. It doesn't matter, that kind of crime really goes into your eyes and I suggest you see it. Or at least at the last stage of changing the criminal law. What I'm trying to say next is, this is the fourth time I've said it from this pay phone, and in the end, I was right. It would have been better if I hadn't, and that's a crime in Article 279 to conceal the illegal income. Namely, what's this about? It's not really a crime. For what? Because there's no sanction prescribed. I know she's a failure, and I know that she's familiar with the fact that she's really a proposing, and also here, and the council committees, and we've had one mistake, and she hasn't been corrected. Omak dropped the penalty. It is known that, for example, a court in Pula has reached two reluctant verdicts and the court has done the right thing, since it is not a criminal offence. But the promoter could have really intervened at least now. We do have one store that is immoral, which is socially harmful, which has been tried to be criminalized, but it has been done clumsyly, and I really suggest to the Proposer that it finally corrects it, that the courts continue, acting naturally correctly, do not make such decisions. It's good in this law to go to protect police officers and that's where I agree. But then it was supposed to be condescending. Namely, what's this about? When you see, when you see what kind of criminal acts are actually committed, then you see that, first of all, criminal protection is actually provided to police officers but not to perform all police work, but only to those who are taxed in this Act. But then at least there was supposed to be a consequential way of rewriting police affairs under the provision of Article 3. The law of the police. It's police business, and this law follows that trend, and all these jobs don't add up. That's not good, and I suggest you fix it until the second reading. And the other thing is not all police officers who do police work, you just have a case, and it's arranged by sublegal infrastructure that police officers are also persons who have police powers, are allowed to do these jobs, and they don't have criminal protection. I suggest you fix it by the second reading. Secondly, I don't know how the boards managed to promote it, and it concerns those crimes relating to human rights violations. As an example, I'm just going to say here a vague relationship between the crime of injury and the equality of citizens, I mean article 106, race and other discrimination, is referred to Article 174. You know, there aren't really human rights today that don't have an international level, and I think that's what I'm going to say is a slight mistake, technical error, so I suggest you fix it. Something, you know, about security. It's nice to hear that this Law really introduces a security measure of permanent ban on motor vehicle management, but you know when we talked about amendments to the Law on Road Safety, then we talked about these young drivers being risky, the most or the offenses being, of course, in the case of thoughts of criminal acts, exactly they do, but it's an age structure that can be fixed and I don't think it should have been so harsh, it just had to go to find the possibility of that special prevention, but not in this way. Whether to establish an age limit of up to 30 years, that's a matter that should be discussed, it seems to me that such a security measure is too harsh and that the solution, such a solution, is simply too rash. And finally, I want to say something about what we all like to call corruption, organised crime, so you know that media fine sounds, and in fact, it's not just going to change this situation significantly, it's not going to improve that situation significantly. I still claim that the existing Penal Code is very harsh, but what is the problem? The problem's in the process. We have the Criminal Procedure Act, which we all know we have to change, we have passed the UskoC Act, we have changed the CAP several times when we refer to those provisions to USKOK, but yet there is no sublegal infrastructure there. These bodies of the national programme that should really do their job seriously do not have enough normatively regulated field of action and problems arise. I suggest to the Proposer that he thinks again about the amendments to this Law that it is not really you who will be the ones to take down that basic function of the trial, I mean reducing the upper and lower limits of punishment and that he is seriously considering amendments to the procedural laws, and above all those sublegal infrastructures that are insufficient and which need to be adopted urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50264	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50265	Dear Mr. Vice President, only precisely related to the extension of the limitation deadlines that the colleague was talking about, so these deadlines will only have a future effect, not for what it is, for the crimes that have already been committed and that may be happening right now. So only in the future when it's brought forward, so we don't have to say that it's a great achievement that we're going to solve something, we're not going to solve anything, it's only going to apply in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50266	Thank you very much. Here at 11 and 19 will be an hour, and then for 10 minutes, it'll be 1 minute more. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50267	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club, of course, considers it good to try to improve in any way available to us on the effectiveness of the mechanism on the rule of law, to try to increase the level of legality and legal conduct and legal sanctioning in the state, so in that sense, generally speaking, it does not consider what is being strengthened, in different segments, strengthening sanctions mechanisms and increasing the length of penalties for those who are offenders. But there's one thing we still have to admit to ourselves here. In the past few years, we have missed a thorough reform of the Penal Code, which was first proposed by the former minister in the coalition government, so because of the procedural errors here in the Chamber, the Constitutional Court has returned the whole thing, and then after that we have had a number, and let's say a few procedures, but not systematic procedures regarding amendments to the Penal Code. I have to say that this is still a partial procedure and that it is not a complete procedure and that it is not a systematic procedure in this regard. Later I'll say and warn of some missing segments. As for the extension of limitation deadlines, whether for prosecution or for the maintenance of punishment, we think that it is good and we think it is necessary, because in fact the ageing mechanism or the process of taking the case into obsolescence was one of the fundamental mechanisms of ineffectiveness of the judiciary itself, i.e. the absence of criminal persecution for acts that were to be prosecuted. But in this particular place, you should actually warn yourself of the next thing. We can change the law, we can sharpen sanctions, but what if we don't have judges, what if we don't have a judicial mechanism, or if we don't have the judiciary that's capable of doing it and who wants to do it? What if we still have people who don't really want to implement and strengthen the legality of their country, and there are no others who could do it except the judges, and what happens to us is that, in fact, thanks to the inadequate action of the courts, to the inadequate action of the judges that we have the absence of the legality and inaction of the legal mechanisms. In that sense, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment to the Penal Code will not be resolved. This amendment to the Penal Code will not change, nor will it increase professionalism, nor will it increase responsibility, nor will it increase control mechanisms within the judiciary itself. In other words, we will once again bring about changes, in some cases indeed improvements in terms of the Penal Code, but nothing guarantees us that these improvements will indeed result in greater legality, that these improvements will indeed result in the fact that people will respect the mechanisms of the rule of law more. And that's because in the place where it's supposed to be the most secure and these are the keepers of legality, those are the ones who judge, they're the arbiters, they're the ones who express the penalties, in that place we're not just thin, but in that place, there's rarely any justice. And that's the problem. Therefore, we can only say that we are changing the law, but unfortunately we do not believe that we have people, that we have justice, that we have judges, that we have control mechanisms that will guarantee that we will indeed have greater guarantees for the legality and greater guarantees for the rule of law. Therefore, we will find ourselves in a kind of cosmetic response to the fact that we have a higher degree of violence on the streets, a lower degree of security and that we react by tightening sanctions. That if we just react like that and we don't look at where the birthplace of the justice crisis is, of course, it won't bring results. As for strengthening the protection of police officers, that's fine. Of course we're up for it. But who guarantees us that police officers will take advantage of everything that the law actually offers and behaves in accordance with the law and act in accordance with the law, and protect and do what needs to be done for a number of reasons, for the necessary fact that we have to do and set up the police so that it really acts as an organised hierarchical mechanism, that from the top to the bottom we actually have a firm structure and that there is no hesitation about what needs to be done. And we, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, on a number of occasions, can support that myself from what areas are some direct responsibility to me as a representative unfortunately we don't have. The degree of police independence and the degree of independence of the judiciary and the courts that we should have in the state actually do not have. The foreign mechanisms of influence either through professional people and professors, academics, whether through action within the judiciary, unfortunately still exist, are still too strong and do not contribute to strengthening professionality in the police or in the judiciary, but only confuse people and make it more difficult to do exactly what we want to do, which is stronger and stronger legality. Because as long as we're having a party fight either at the top of the Ministry of the Interior either at the top of our judicial institutions or here we won't guarantee the necessary professionality or credibility of judges or police officers. And that's something that seems to me to be an important assumption to ensure what some colleagues have talked about, that we should have stronger sanctions in some cases, we need to support the mechanisms quite safely. We need to guarantee the safety of those who expose their lives to the common good, but at the same time we need to act politically in such a way as to create assumptions that we ourselves do not violate the possibility of them acting for the common good. It is not only a conceptal difference between the people who have advised the former minister and the people who are now consulting the current minister, but simply it was a question of who and how to implement this reform, whether we are going to execute it as a thorough, systematic or partial one. And over the years, our citizens, our institutions and judicial and police suffering, because we have failed to reach an elemental consensus that we will listen to, one side or the other. And there's also our responsibility for us not being able to cut through what needs to be cut. In this regard, I would like to say a few words about what has been discussed on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. First of all, the question of sanctioning or criminal liability for the act of slander has been mentioned in the last few days and several weeks in our country because certain courts have imposed a certain kind of sanctions that have caused divisions and sharp and violent reactions within the public. There is no doubt that a colleague and colleagues talk about decriminalization of this type of crime can be a superficial story. Defamation is something that must be sanctioned, but we must have people who will be able to tell what is slander and what is not slander. We have to have people and judges who will be able to tell what freedom of expression is of this kind or of that kind that is defamation. And unfortunately, we don't rarely have it, nor do we have in the right sense the word "public" prepared for it. That's how much public discussion is good. And neither do we have judges who have the ability to do it, nor have they faced it properly, whether it's slander or what's called mental pain. How many people have mental pains in this country, and they've been inflicted on them by mental pain, so no one will ever wear sanctions for it. I must admit, in some cases, a man wonders that some people are not ashamed to appear with this kind of criminal application in conditions in which at least 50% of our population, our people in this country actually suffer in ways that I don't know how many possible, including mental ones. But good. Another thing I would like to say which is not here in the amendments to this Penal Code about something that has long been said in our country, our minister, the current minister of justice, also announced yesterday. Yes, it is a matter of sanctioning those who in this way glorify the criminal regimes of the 20th century and who in this respect violate our constitutional values and violate the fundamental values of our society. I know that there is still no full consensus between us, which means, but I think that like we shouldn't waste time on whether we're going to accept this kind of academic concept of criminal reform or academic reform that we shouldn't waste time in this matter either. Because as you know, we in society are suffering serious difficulties precisely because we do not have some minimum standard of what we call inadmissible in our society regarding values and ideas. We should not have a dilemma about what criminal regimes really are, which is the consequences of criminal regimes and how they should be sanctioned as other countries know it and we have experience in other countries. Therefore, if this was not able to prepare either, or any other in these amendments to criminal reform, I think you should consider preparing all necessary advances and performing all necessary advances in order to have such a change on the next one. Because other countries in the world have that. I'm not going to list who they are now, and I'm not going to in what way they refer to it more explicitly, more extensively, or with less explicit, less extensive provisions, but they have it as an integral part of their legislation and their criminal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50268	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone. He's losing the right club to argue. On behalf of the Club of HSLS, DC, LS, Madam Representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50269	Thank you very much, fellow vice president, colleague and colleague. Here is the second time in a very short time there is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Thus, the Law that has already experienced significant changes and even one failure or some will say the successful one that the Constitutional Court has already abolished. The amendments we discussed last year were mainly only to comply with international conventions, therefore, with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia stemming from different agreements or harmonising with EU legislation. The proposed amendments and additions to this Penal Code, at least in the part in which we all supported it as much as I had the opportunity to hear it refers to the tightening of penalties for most of the criminal acts. Courts are limited by the prescribed restriction on the possibility of imposing softer penalties than prescribed by law, which in practice has been known to happen. Also, the possibility of sentenceing a long-term prison is prescribed for a perpetrator who has not turned 18 which has not been done so far, and it seems to me that there is a missing word of experts or we have missed it. The limitation deadlines for a large number of crimes are also extended, which is certainly a good assessment because the potential perpetrators will certainly be at least more cautious in doing the same. These are, therefore, elements supported by all MPs so far or almost all. I would also like to express the satisfaction of accepting a proposal that I have spoken here several times on behalf of the club but also on behalf of the club, and often the unions of police officers pointed out, it is more protection precisely for people who work on such jobs that should be lawkeepers. I suppose, in a hurry to propose these new amendments and the addition of the Law, has contributed to the frequent number of heavy muggings recently committed in the very short term that they had for the consequences of and death and the severe wounding of life. The identification of the legislator to be able to express a long-term prison and for the perpetrators who turned 18 stems from the fact that the number of such perpetrators has increased significantly lately and that the penalties so far prescribed have not received the desired result. But until the final decision, and once again, I call for a call from experts who may be something better than people who only know the judiciary here, I dare say children up to the age of 18. Expressing a single prison sentence for acts committed in acquisition is a novelty in our legislation, it is based on the practice of other countries with developed criminal policies, so we are probably driven by feelings or assumptions if in these countries it has produced results that will happen in our case. The tightening of repression against corruption with the expansion of the concept of property benefit is likely in the service of a comprehensive fight against corruption for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has defined itself in its programmes and related to the repression of economic and other forms of crime. And it seems to me that just in the fight against corruption, the most anti-economic crime can be seen is the state of justice. I will also address the problem of journalists' responsibility for the defamation committed, it has been a longer topic in journalistic but also political circles. Here we are today almost every one of the representatives on behalf of the clubs spoke of it. I sincerely hope it's not just because our job depends largely on how journalists define us and how they treat us. Although there is no concrete provision in this Law on the decriminalisation of such acts. The recent announcements by the justice minister suggest that the ministry will, in the final form of a second reading or its amendments, conduct decriminalisation of the newspaper defamation. We believe that this is positive because it is not good that journalists reporting are limited by fear of the possibility of a criminal charge, but, of course, by expecting full responsibility for the written and publicly spoken word. We believe that this decriminalisation should also be passed on to persons who commit such an act or act in the scientific, literary or artistic work and persons who perform official duties, political, public or social activities. In particular, I would like to emphasise and praise the limitation of the possibility of legally easing penalties for perpetrators who only at the time of the initiation, therefore, only at the time of the criminal offence were reduced to a significant extent because of the existence of it, many say almost general practice of the courts that even every minor mental disorder could be taken into account in giving a reduced sentence, leading to a real flood of a large number of judgments that do not correspond to the severity of the crime committed, which could certainly encourage many perpetrators in their criminal activity. At the end of this debate, I would like to consider, before the vote itself, before the final form of this Law, also some changes which I am sure would contribute to good and court practice but also the quality of the law. And this is an increase in some penalties, primarily those related to the crimes of child pornography, then to the abandonment or abuse of a child or a minor, to the prevention of non-execution of measures to protect a child or a minor, and to satisfy the desire to have a child and to have sex with a child. I also believe that there should be an increase in the penalty for the loan contracts and fraud because for such crimes, they often occur, therefore, such acts of money which are mostly very high in supply. I think that each of us will be able to think of a number of people who, just because of the lenders, have poored and the lenders are afforded real wealth for such an immoral act with very little or almost no punishment. We know that this is one of the amendments to the Penal Code, we do not hold anything bad that the law changes when it needs to be changed because it is better than that sophisticated crime remains out of the law or away from the law because it is often more imaginative and faster than legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50270	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50271	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the ministry. In front of us is a bill on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code that I want to say on behalf of the Club in 7 years from the beginning of application The Penal Code is here, this is already 5 times to change. So, almost on average, once a year, what in our court alone speaks enough about the quality of criminal law in us. But he's also talking about something much more important, but it's a big change in the area that should actually be an example of continuity and perseverance. If there is an area in which continuity and perseverance should be manifested, then it is the Penal Code. Yes, it is true that changing your mind sometimes means being smarter today than yesterday, but sometimes that change of opinion means both perversion and whether it's natural or necessary. Here when we speak of need, then I think of the daily political interests that certainly shouldn't be those that dictate changes to the Penal Code. Although this proposal seeks to show that this ends at the beginning of the term of office of this Government, the announced task which is part of achieving the objectives of the systematic policy of reducing and curbing crime is precisely criminal law, that is, in these amendments in the text on page 3. Yet that fact is not true. At least for two reasons. First, not only is this government not at the beginning of its mandate but also because criminal law cannot be reduced and contained in criminal law in this way. And I'm sure when I say I didn't discover America. Indeed, many of the amendments and additions proposed are not controversial. The increased protection of the family, more restrictive provisions on child abuse and domestic violence are certainly not controversial. Nor do other measures aimed at more appropriate punishment of perpetrators of criminal offences. Any change in this regard should also be welcomed and any change in this regard welcomed by the HSP Club. But this is certainly not going to change the right attitude of the public who considers not as it is stressed that the criminal policy of the courts does not coincide with the will of the legislator but that the conduct of all the competent authorities not only of the courts but rather of the State's attorney, the USKOK, the parts of the MUP and so on do not correspond to the will of the legislator. The best evidence about this is the State's Attorney's Office's report as well as the data on page 5 of this Bill's proposal where fewer applications are visible than in any other neighbouring country. That we have committed so many crimes especially those in the area of economy and labour relations in the past period is actually clear to everyone in this country. Reasons and excuses for non-processing the biggest cases of crime, conversion and privatisation, not taking action to restore illegal acquired property are simply ridiculous. The amount of total funds illegally acquired in the conversion and privatisation as well as the number of workers who ended up in the street as a result of tycunisation resulted in unbearable conditions in the pension system, huge number of unemployed, health care rights cuts and the like. These consequences are obviously not the result of even the usual crimes of economic activity but of the crimes of endangering the foundations of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The inefficiencies of the repressive bodies, as well as the subsequent confiscation of the anti-legal property benefit against the parts which are being destroyed, cannot be justified by any statistical data showing the effectiveness of the system on traffic delicacies perpetrators and by the acts of petty theft. It is only this proposal for a law that introduces certain but minor changes in corruption and the confiscation of illegally acquired property as well as in the area of economic offences. It is unfortunate that for years the problem of economic crime has been pointed out and the need for better regulation, and the orchestra from different sides shows that this is a complex and complex political issue and changes in principle nothing even though it is a burning issue of this society. Not a matter of petty criminals or a single sick family member. For society, and then for every individual, there are dangerous cases of economic crime and their impunity. Under the rule of law, in some laws of immorality, but not illegality and the like. Bringing the act under easier crime and then declaring it obsolete and so forth. This raises doubts about the impact of these criminal circles on all factors of this society with the aim of acquiring benefits until the last piece of former social or state ownership is transformed into private. If only then the relevant provisions on economic criminal acts and the judiciary are adopted then it is only then that it is a sign that the economic underworld has taken all the necessary measures so that someone does not rob them under alleged signs like they robbed this country and citizens. In this context, minor changes in the matter of economic offences should be taken into account and the need for urgent amendments to the law in that part. The possible negative context of tightening sanctions for many crimes should also be mentioned here. Many perpetrators of the crimes of family delicacies, easier crimes against life and the body and property are persons who balance on the edge of the law and many of them have been punished or punished but never by prison punishment. By tightening the sentence of those who would eventually be reduced to a short stay of a few months or a year, two in prison will make many of them real criminals because they will only learn a job in prison. And from then on, there will be even greater damage to society and family and citizens, or all those we are actually trying to protect by punishing them. Notably, there are now at least a thousand legally convicted people waiting for the execution of the sentence. So the minister of justice announces even the construction of new prisons, which means that the courts are already making more and more strict prison sentences according to existing rules. First of all, I have to say, I find it very questionable to suggest an increase in the period of limitation, persecution and execution of the penalties of those easiest so-called so-called. Adjournable crimes that prevent fines or prisons from being punished for up to one year, as it is now proposed from two to three years. Although according to such a formulation, this extension cannot, in fact, be explained by an increase in the minimum sentence from two to three years, I quote: "the known circumstances of the duration of the procedure." Although, according to such a formulation, it is not really possible to understand with certainty what the known circumstances of the proceedings really mean except that we can understand that this is about the criticism of the courts and the slowness of the work of judges or courts. Ours, although according to such a, our public actually required such a formulation solely for the sake of converted crime, not for the sake of small, leprosy crimes. Furthermore, we are against it in the Club that persons who were minors at the time of the work can now face capital punishment from a long-term prison. Because we know that in Austria, they gave up very quickly after the introduction of such a newspaper, and the data on the criminal activity of younger adults do not justify such a move with us. By holding on so that these generations could be the maximum possible penalty of 20 years, which is now being prevented. In view of the proposal for a number of changes in the penalties for certain offences, we do not generally dispute the need for a tightening that is proposed but we do think that attention should be paid in this respect to the following: firstly, we do not understand or accept that, with the abolition of the fine as alternative, the maximum of 3 months of imprisonment as it was done in 20 articles is the most common. And that's because we hold that the acts for which the fine is intended are indeed in exchange for a fine of 30 days in prison as it is so far, not an increase in the minimum sentence of imprisonment by three months. We certainly refer to our criticism through the sequence of logic and the proposed changes which significantly increase the specific minimum. At the same time, not the upper limit of punishment. So I'm so illogical and I'm holding back unnecessaryly narrows the range of punishments. And by doing so, the possibility of legal individualisation is considerably reduced. In particular, in the provisions of Articles 189(1) and 192(1), where, according to the proposal, one according to us is now an entirely unsustainable range of three to eight years, and even further in that direction, we think that it is necessary to consider also very problematic to raise minimum penalties from one to three years if the maximum penalty for that work remains ten years which has been done even six times in this proposal to amend the law. A general reduction in the range of penalties in such a way that the lower limit of penalties is increased and the upper limit is not, and this is proposed in these amendments and additions to the law at least 15 times is not logical and not acceptable. Here, so much for the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50272	Thank you very much, dear colleague. No more club reports. We're starting an individual debate for ten minutes. First enlisted fellow MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50273	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, an article in the Penal Code that does not change here, but whose amendment is announced by the minister. It's that famous insult and slander that's been spoken of a lot, and it seems kind of meaningful to me, so I'd like to warn you that with that article 200. The Penal Code also exists in Article 203, which is to exclude illegality if this insult or slander is done in a literary, artistic, scientific work or in a journalistic article or in public defence of some greater value. Therefore, it seems to me that the insult and slander in our Penal Code is quite well resolved and that this is not a question of the quality of the legal norm, but a question of the quality of judges who do not know how to apply the norm, so we have several lately inadmissible judgments for insult and slander in newspaper writings only because the judge did not apply provision 203. But I'm saying, it's a question of the quality of the judge. What I want to dedicate to the whole debate is Article 309. A criminal law that regulates the crime of coercion against a judicial officer. And now it's clear that he's got three lines. The first sentence is undeniable. It makes it clear that this criminal act of coercion towards a judicial officer makes any of the judges, state attorneys, public notary by force, threat or other form of coercion request that an action be taken or a decision taken within or outside of its jurisdiction or who intervenes in such action or request if such action has not committed any other criminal offence for which a greater penalty has been prevented. And I say in that paragraph one, nothing is disputed. However, Article 309 also has its own paragraph 2 and that is the case. Those who, during the proceedings before the court and before making a final decision in public means of communication, shall give their opinion at a public meeting or before a group of people that a judicial officer should act in that case or any decisions will be punished by a fine or a prison sentence of up to 6 months. Well, I am deeply convinced that this paragraph 2 of Article 309. The penal code needs to be abolished and I'm proving to be next. Let us first look at what R 94 12 Minister of the Council of Europe says about independence and efficiency and the task of judges. The recommendation points to the obligations of judges and says among other things. It is the obligation of judges to protect the rights and freedoms of all persons, to ensure the proper application of the law, and to resolve cases fairly, efficiently and quickly, to act independently and freely in all cases from any external influence. There are other recommendations that are not important for this topic. The recommendation therefore points to the need for the independence of judges in the decision-making process that defines as the ability of judges to act without any restriction of the illicit influence, threats, interference directly or indirectly from anyone and for any reason whatsoever. The law must therefore provide sanctions for those who seek such an influence on the judge. Judges must therefore have full freedom of decision in cases, impartially in accordance with their conscience, their interpretation of facts, and clearly in accordance with the law. In the memorandum of reasons of this recommendation, the purpose of this provision is to ensure that no kind of pressure obliges judges to make decisions at the request of parties, administration, government or any other person. The attempted corruption of judges should be punished under the Penal Code. Therefore, the text of this recommendation already shows that this must be done to influence the judicial decision-making process involving the threat, interference or other illicit influence. The memorandum of reasons shows, however, that this provision is inspired by the need to remove pressures aimed at making decisions at the request of parties or persons outside the judiciary. I believe that internationally recognised, constitutionally and legally right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be tried before an independent and impartial court cannot be harmed by the publication of information in the press or electronic media on cases at any stage of the proceedings, which has been done with the purpose of notifying the public of a particular case. It is therefore my opinion that this paragraph 2 is Article 309. Penalty law completely unnecessary. In fact, it is clear from paragraph 1 that any unauthorised influence on the work of the courts is sanctioned in order for the judge to make some kind of decision of a completely defined content. In addition, I hold that item 2. Penal Code, 309. Penal Code and unconstitutional because we have a constitutional provision that guarantees the right to information. It is also contrary to the European Convention applicable as part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, in particular provision 10. Namely, this European Convention allows the possibility of restricting the free expression of information received and disseminated, but only for reasons necessary in a democratic society that I stress is necessary for the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public order and peace, to prevent riots or crimes, to protect health or morals, to protect the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the giving of confidential information or to preserve the authority of the impartiality of the judicial authority. Let's see what the European Court of Human Rights verdicts are like. Let's paralyze one verdict very interestingly that's the subject of "Sunday Times" against the United Kingdom since 6 November 1980. What's this about? "Sunday Times" published an article titled "Our Talimonide Children, Reason for National Shame". So that's where the journalists attack, it's just that the mothers of pregnant women were taking this kind of medicine, so they were born with malformed children. It's unequivocally stopped. "Sunday Times" wrote about it as national, not about it, but about the company offering pharmaceutically to the damages of the settlement. And "Sunday Times" called that settlement a national disgrace. The U.K.’s State Attorney sought and resulted in a temporary measure of banning the publication of that article. The Supreme Court suspended that temporary measure. However, Sunday Times also launched a dispute before the European Court of Human Rights, which stood on the side of the Sunday Times, and found in its ruling that the court's decision to temporarily prohibit the publication of the disputed news article was injure clause 10. European Conventions. And watch out, when the state's attorney got involved he claimed that the Sunday Times was affecting the course of the trial, there was no verdict yet, the procedure was under way. They said they wanted to interfere in the work of the court and in an attempt to resolve the dispute by settlement, because they call the settlement embarrassing. It is evident what paragraph 2 speaks of. 309th Article of the Penal Code. The European Court of Human Rights has come to the view that newspapers have the right, media have the right to comment on unfinished judicial proceedings, because it is in the interest of the public which is greater than the interests of the parties. And in the light of this, and its judgments, the European Court says, freedom of expression, the right to seek and obtain information are essential rights of democratic society. These are the rights and principles especially important whenever the press is involved. These principles are also applicable to a trial which serves the interests of society and requires cooperation of the informed public. There is a general understanding of the fact that courts cannot work in vacuums, although those forums for dispute resolution do not mean that there can be no prior dispute debates in other places, whether in specialized magazines, whether in the press or in public at all. Furthermore, mass media as well as inform the public of any area of public interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50274	A fellow representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50275	...so they must also inform of cases that come before the courts. From all the above, I think 309nd paragraph 2 should be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50276	Thank you very much. Replica was reported by MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50277	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Stazic, I share your position on criminal offences and slanders and insults, mainly regarding journalists and information funds, but I don't think this case of these crimes is going to be an accident that is so precise. It's not an accident that precise. It's specified on purpose, unlike the beings of other crimes. In particular, the issue of conversion and privatisation and theft, then the entity of the crime in general was indeterminate, i.e. indeterminate and the courts were unable to act at all. They couldn't act. This is where the courts have to act because it goes a long way towards a private lawsuit. There are cases when he's going on official duty, but he's going to a private lawsuit, and I think this part of the speech. Be careful, we are constantly implementing reforms, reforms, reforms, and the situation of the general security of citizens is getting worse. Police don't reveal the perpetrators of crimes, the state's attorney's office mistrials, and when it's revealed to the courts, they're powerless. So we can't say that guilt is only in courts because of such a bad situation in the area and prevention and in the area of repression. The problem is far deeper. We don't have a police system, our state's attorney's office isn't working. We have bad laws in terms of determining the substance of a crime why we are here to blame. So we're not gonna do anything with this. Let's get back to the point of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50278	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50279	I didn't realize the essence of your replica because I wasn't talking about the state's attorney's office or the police. I was talking about two articles of this Penal Code, one that doesn't change, and one that changes a little bit, so it's an opportunity to change it a little more thoroughly. But since you've touched that insult a little bit and the defamation of Article 200. So, I repeat, it's settled quite well in law, and as you say, very precisely. And there's no reason that if the judges, if the courts properly apply, not only by letter, but also by the spirit of the law, this Penalty, the prescribed norm, there's no reason for any dispute in the public. But the question of whether the judges want to, do they know if they want to apply a well-trodden standard? But that's the question that brings us back to how the State Judiciary Council we have, whether the State Judiciary Council deals with what our judges are like in the judiciary at all. But it's not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50280	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50281	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respected secretary of state. It is my opinion, but not just mine, that the preparation and adoption of the Penal Code should be conducted broadly. And when it comes to adoption then the Penal Code should seek to bring consensus to the Croatian Parliament, with the broad support of other entities in society. Therefore, the Penal Code should be raised above party interests and party policies, and I guess it should say that the state has instruments, a single policy and a political will to oppose unacceptable and criminal behaviour. What's the Croatian state doing? I tried to listen, I listened carefully to my colleague, Rosic, so I tried to count how many amendments and additions of the Penal Code were made. In accordance with Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, are bound by this Agreement. The motion to amend and supplement this law that we had before us was 8, this is the ninth. Such a policy could be concluded that Croatia seems to want to address social opportunities in a transition society by amending the Penal Code through the Penal Code, Amendments and Supplements of the Law. When social dissatisfactions or tensions occur in other countries, when they appear on the street, we quickly conclude here that such a social picture or such social problems cannot be solved by repression. My colleagues and colleagues, we change the Penal Code nine times. It creates confusion among citizens, but even more confusion creates this in the judiciary and in the application of the Penal Code. And what have we now received from the amendment and supplementation proposal? I think this novel is for short breath, too. There will be changes to the Penal Code very soon. Here's to state one case that my colleagues have referred me to that law. In this text, there is no proposal from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, related to domestic violence, so these changes have not been introduced, what this ministry is looking for has not been introduced. Even the ruling party's promises in pre-election time to criminalise non-payment of alimony are not even mentioned in this bill. It may once again be worth pointing out that economic crime, unfortunately, did not deserve proper attention in changing and supplementing the penal law that we have today on the agenda. In Croatia, real estate and rights can still be trafficked, however, traffic can be executed and registered without anyone asking if payment fees have been made. You can become the owners of the entire factory without having to prove that you paid for it. Not even the IRS. And Croatia is at a very low level of corruption according to statistics and bodies dealing with the international framework of the problem. We do not speak and strengthen the measures neither money laundering nor fictitious financial transactions nor fictitious documents or false contracts or false mediation, all of this is still in some definitions that new times, new crime does not sanction in the definition of how this law criminal and must have, in definition. So the qualification that this bill adopts a tightening of criminal policy is only partially correct. Because it raises the lower minimum intended punishment for certain acts. If this solves the problems that I mentioned earlier, and if someone is saying that I can handle it, it is simply not true. Because raising minimum impediment is only easier for me to say criminal acts. In the end, I don't think much of the whole law, I want to point out one by one a rather dubious suggestion, which is that the extension of mandatory psychiatric treatment of mentally disturbed perpetrators is raised from three to five years. I would like to know and see with the proposal that this measure is supported by scientists and experts from this area. Of course, this measure in all systems is very sensitive. Often in history abused, so I think it's worth asking if science has said its observation and suggested to the government that this measure be tightened. And quite at the end. I think these proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code only aim to determine that the government has taken action in the spirit of the strategy, but the change in criminal behaviour and the prevention of criminal behaviour will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50282	Thank you, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First is representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50283	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Leco said incorrectly that the amendments to this Penal Code wanted to solve the social problem to make further repression, is what you said to your colleague, I listened carefully and I wrote it down. It is simply not the intention or intensity of the proposer at all to deal with social problems with these changes. This is resolved in other institutions. ... I listened carefully and wrote it down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50284	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50285	It is incorrect that Mr. Lek said that the Ministry of the Family had done nothing about interventions in the Criminal Law on Family Violence, Children and the rest of what is seen in the proposal of Article 60, which refers to the amendment of Article 215a, where violence in the family was increased and the minimum penalty was increased by 100%, and the upper penalty was increased and came from three years to five years. And also a whole set of relations related to sexual coercion and violence against children has increased either the minimum penalty or been introduced where it has not been, and some of the above penalties which I will say, of course, when I report to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50286	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, for the purpose of this law, what he was saying, which is like a governmental, respected colleague, Leko. And I think that it should be said openly that the objective of fogging that something in this area is essentially done, some novels are being proposed, and the situation is getting worse and worse, it is not being processed, every day we witness how much robbery, robbery and all other forms of crime, and there is no significant progress because there is a need to solve cause and cause and cause and the consequences are not solved, and that is why you probably and said that according to the statistics, you were probably thinking of some kind of official as Croatia is at a very low level of corruption. Oh, God, that's right, who's happier than me. Unfortunately, it is due to the failure of the rule of law at a very high level of corruption, and we are talking here instead of creating a system that will take measures and repression and prevention. We're clouding the public here by bringing some novels, so we'll do something, that's the rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50288	Thank you very much. Replication response, Agent Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50289	I think you're knocking on the open door, so I'll do it again. It seems that in Croatia social policy is trying to resolve itself through permanent amendments to the Penal Code and changes to the nine times applicable Penal Code point to no matter what anyone thinks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50290	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. The next is MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50291	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will look first at what is necessary to change the Penal Code, and to this day this government has persistently refused to incriminate itself. Croatia currently has no Penal Code against Economic Crime. The conversion mags are at large. Through a series of repeated prosecution trials, the authorities and the law enforcement bodies themselves have failed to carry out the expected justice, and neither in the notorial examples of privatisation malfeasance that has been rounding up not only the political but the general public for more than 10 years. One broader interpretation of existing laws did not come to the understanding of higher court cases and perhaps with the right. Croatia has neither to this day nor to this day nor seems to want to have exactly that kind of incrimination. Our Penal Code of Economic Crime still today defines the criteria that were in force in the former SFRY system. Let us remember at that time the persecution of economic crime was carried out exclusively at the border between the so-called border. the social and private sector and the mere establishment of whether or not the bookkeeping of all matters in a particular company. It's something inadmissible. It is inadmissible for this reason that the head of the task force who prepared these amendments to us in 97th was saying that Croatia has socialist economic incrimination. But when the SDP wanted to change that and proposed an identical novel that we had in 2003, the government replied this way last year: In the existing provisions of the KZ, there is a set framework for the protection and incriminate of banned actions in the context of economic crime, and criminal repression in this area is primarily a matter of detecting, processing and sanctioning economic crime. Because according to these new incriminations as proposed by the SDP Club, one legal uncertainty and creation would be created, please, an unfair position in the application of criminal-material law. In fact, it is that economic crime should include any deliberate violation of mandatory and property rights in order to seek the illegal benefit of debtors and their related interests and to the detriment of business creditors. And it's also worth the other way around. With careful reference to the phenomenon of privatisation of businesses, we find the damage done to business creditors whether they are suppliers, whether they are creditors, whether they are taxpayers, whether they are employees, therefore, workers or even the state itself who have failed to collect the sales of equity shares. But there's no incrimination for her. For them, this government founded "www.tro.hr" so that all those who have so ruined the company instead of good incrimination as a central crime of the abuse of the creditors put them where they belong, so for them it was created "www.tro.hr" and a well-registered and ruined enterprise, other debtors, states and workers, and they establish a new company and laugh at both workers and the state. And rightly so. The legal system is spared experience that did not have self-government socialism, protects the interests of creditors by principle who do not protect the believer does not actually protect the property. I will read to you what Mr. Mladen Klasic, who was a quarter of a century ago the liquidator of companies in London who stopped doing business with the will of the owner and who had the duty, just as a liquidator. He says that every six months he delivered to the company register a detailed report on all payments and payments to the company, and the oath to the Bible guaranteed the truthfulness of the data. And he wondered why that parade was needed. Of course, he says, if at the end of the search for any of the credentials remained invaluable or out of available assets, the court would, at the moment under the law force, of course by positive regulations, initiate bankruptcy, and invite him to be held accountable for the crime at the expense of the credentials. But that's not the case in Croatia. In Croatia, the interests of the credentials and our system were played by the last hole. This is also evidenced by recent cases, in a known case against one believer, against a particular debtor of a bank when the creditor’s bankruptcy manager transferred the assets of the debtor without compensation to other companies that were just established by the debtor in order to defuse the claim. And to no one, it didn't interest anyone, there's no criminal responsibility, of course because there's no adequate criminal protection either. And then when we as the Club of the SDP, we renovated the whole story to correct this kind of injustice and to restore that 2003 novel that had a central crime of abuse of creditors that is in all laws, if we're going to enter Europe, that's because we need it. It's a central crime of protection. We were rejected, and the fact is, we'll all agree, that during the conversion and privatisation of the Republic of Croatia, a number of pieces have been committed that simply remain unprocessed, the public is simply confused. He can't understand that it's simply not a criminal act with us and such a condition certainly makes it difficult to affirm the principle of rule of law. It leads to citizens' mistrust in laws and authorities, negatively affecting economic development, rejects foreign investors and Croatian entrepreneurs and, of course, promotes social individual inequality, and negatively affects social stability and general social security. And if there's anything citizens want to change in the Penal Code, that's exactly it. What's with the persistent rejection? You have a done incrimination, I'll read it even though it's already in that novel. "Trust abuse." The incrimination would read, "whoever injures the duty to care for other people's property interests based on the law and decision of the administrative or judicial authorities and the legal work or the relationship of trust and thus those whose property interests are obliged to care for cause harm or obtain to himself or another natural or legal person the property benefit will be punished by a certain penalty". This is exactly the kind of crime of misappropriation of trust, which was proposed by example of the crime of infidelity in German, Austrian, Swiss, and very similar to what I said, all other legislations not only of continental Europe but also of Anglo-Saxon law. And that, a key economic crime involves the criminality of management structures in companies. We're simply being pushed by people who are going to be in management structures, on boards because no one is responsible for anything. And that is exactly how you would be called, called to account not as a body, but as an individual, and for all the damage it causes to the believers. However, as I pointed out in our case, the believers were playing the last hole in the play. It's incomprehensible that as a country, here's the one that opened negotiations on this, it doesn't matter. And above all, the correction of justice and injustice done to our citizens. However, if we call ourselves to the memory of the situation that occurred in 98 when some other economic acts that were then in socialism, which were what they were. First, they disappeared, reduced sentences for such types of similar acts, although completely inadequate. And so, here's the day we have a situation today that such a one-state situation that, it didn't allow sanctioning, at the time there was just a privatisation robbery going on and now it's persistently refusing to sanction. We want to leave this as the proposer says for the final stage. Not to be corrected and what I say is the minimum minimum to do so. And something else that's really tragic, which is not taking care of the workers, of their protection. We've also been introduced that crime, the failure to pay the worker. Disbursement of salaries to a worker must be a special offence, as we have proposed. Unfortunately, we were rejected and we see that these are questions that are also tormenting our people, and as much as it would bring into order just regular payouts, the way they're sanctioned today, just as a right of short pay, it's completely inadequate, and according to that criminal, existing legislation, no one has answered. That's why we're telling the promoter that there's still time, it's the last time he might put this crime in the final proposal. I say, because we need it, and also because it is the expectations of our citizens to establish such justice. In the case of insult and slander, we were also rejected by the argument that there is no valid reason for only this crime of insult and defamation to provide for fines. We see that we were right because here, the motionary pressed by the public is doing it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50292	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Anticevic said that "www.tro,hr" was allegedly formed for criminals, tycoons, etc. It's simply incorrect and it really has nothing to do with the truth. Namely, "www.tro.hr" was formed to make it easier for entrepreneurs for what took them a year in your rule, today it takes them six days, five, six days, and that will come down to one day. So, for all the necessary forms and for all that it takes to form one firm. And another thing, I'm surprised you didn't stand up for the creditors you talk about today so full of mouths about in the case of Victor Lance, who were very clear, very clear about it were also made clear through the newspapers. But then we didn't hear from you at all that you stood up for the credentials when it was the Victor Lenac case and about the privatisation robbery, too, I guess you should have left your ranks first, your ranks in a particular case the same Victor Lenac and the other kittens in the conversion...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50295	...that we're not talking about the Excelsior Hotel and the other privatisation points.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50296	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50297	Mr. Vice President, I'm out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50298	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50299	Well, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Matosic has already made some corrections, and I think it should, however, point out that in this way inaccuracies cannot be given public sympathy. The government did not set up HITRO to amnesty, or to help those who robbed Croatia, because this means that the government is actually an accomplice to Croatia's robbery and that Croatia is actually run by a mugging, thieving society in which ministers are. ... Well, not from what a colleague is talking about, I think we should be careful if we want to clarify some things that we don't use inaccuracies. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The reasons, which is why HITRO was founded and that Croatia should be launched, to help people with investments, means investors both domestic and foreign.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50300	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50301	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It was Mrs. Ingrid's argument when she talked about the protection of the workers that invited me to this replica. Namely, there is no effective fight against corruption without the protection of those who report it, so-called. It means "protection of whistles," and we didn't do anything about it. So do you have Vice President of the Parliament, like all of us here present a moral doubt when someone reports corruption and ends up in a dungeon like the Maltenes did not end up in Vesna Balenović? Do you have that moral doubt? As an expert today, you're talking about moral doubt, we're all talking about moral doubt, do you have that moral doubt? And the one who's been shown for corruption, he's even begging to be fined. So where does that lead? Did we fight for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50302	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50303	Well, I'd almost completely agree with my colleague Kovacevic. The truth during the coalition government in the Labour Act we have one provision, but which I agree is not until the end nor elaborated nor applicable, and what can be applied obviously not to apply, and at this point what is most important to us is that we advocate that non-payment of wages, therefore not the right to pay, because the defendants are just being defended, so I did not deny the right, but he drives the Mercedes, but says I have nothing to pay off and such criminal charges are rejected. So let's give this no politicizing, we'll all be more efficient together, and in some way, sodium in public, and we'll ease ourselves if we go out and without, I don't think there's any obstacle, you've got a done incrimination to pay the worker just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50304	Thank you. The word has been respected by the Vice President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50305	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like first of all to point out one fact that I don't think is good in a particular situation. It is not good to change laws too often in general, and in particular laws relating to criminal law and in this situation, it is necessary to say that this 9th amendment of the Penal Code actually indicates that more than almost every other one, or more than every other year, we are changing the Penal Code, which is not good for legal certainty, nor for the legal stability of the country, and in such a situation, we should certainly consider it, but if so, and already there is no point in postponing one part of this reform of criminal law. There should be some more crimes to be covered, and these issues should be discussed as a whole and tried even if it was a larger criminal reform to do so in one job, and then leave perhaps a little longer to bring up legislation so that people can prepare themselves for the implementation of the Law. What am I thinking? I think that delaying the criminal reform of economic crime is not good and that as soon as possible, it is necessary to include criminal reform in relation to those acts, not only because of crimes that may be committed in the conversion and privatisation, but also in the further part of the privatisation that will follow, but also in the economic business in the Republic of Croatia, because those committed, of course, will not apply to them. Secondly, it should certainly be reviewed in this criminal reform and this issue of insult and slander, whether and to what extent it is necessary to change or not, but perhaps clarify only this provision. Thirdly, it is a question of non-payment of salaries to a worker, it should be declared a criminal offence, because it is actually an act directed against other people's property, and especially if it is in the light of that reform that such changes have been made and that certain penalties are tightened even for criminal offences which are not criminal offences for which they must also be pronounced against property. You'll see, I'll come back to this question later. Of course, there should be another question that concerns the transfer of knowledge of drug possession for its own needs from the criminal to the legal criminal sphere, because it simply doesn't make sense that we have such a strict provision for the possession of drugs for our own use and that it follows that, in practice, more than 70% of the prisoners are actually persons who are addicts, therefore who are patients, who are in prisons, instead of being in hospitals, etc. and we should definitely review that question once again and therefore list all these acts to be taken into account, as we have one special piece of work that has happened to the draft legislator that has not been sanctioned, this work should now, at this stage until the second reading, include, it is a question of concealing illegally obtained money, i.e. money or so on. "money laundering" for which no sanctions are actually prescribed, and this should be corrected by the next final bill to settle the issue. Of course, in addition to this principled approach to this problem, or the current Bill proposal, let me also warn you of some more questions that I think should be discussed and kept in mind before the final draft of the law is reached. First, it's a matter of increasing the minimum sentence and turning the fine into prison. I'm going to give an example that might surprise you and that I really don't know if it makes any sense to say otherwise, but why am I citing this example? Because I think it's necessary to review it one more time and see if this kind of approach to tightening criminal acts and turning fines into prison sentences, and the lowest penalties to increase, in fact, every time and in any case, has its own justification. This is the current Article 259(2) or the proposed law in Article 85, which states that paragraph 2 to 150 of the daily income is deleted or the practically fine of 150 daily income is deleted. And what crime is this about? Among other things, it is a criminal offence, and I will quote this paragraph 2, it is said: "Who fishes or other freshwater or marine animals or organisms in other people's hunting grounds, and it is not a criminal act against other people's property." Look, there's not even a crime against other people's property, says the legislator had provided for a fine of up to 150 incomes or a fine of up to 6 months, now we're erasing those 150 incomes and it's only a fine, it's only a prison sentence, and it's not even against other people's property. So I think we finally realize that we have a situation that's very serious, our prisons are full and we don't need to put people in jail for every single thing, we actually need to prescribe maybe a sharper and bigger fine, because maybe they'll even have a preventive and every other aspect of much more efficiency than they'll have every time a prison sentence. The other thing I think should be reconsidered is among other things the question so-called. I think that this solution, by which three quarters should serve the sentence, at least two thirds before the interrogation, would simply not stand when it comes to the most difficult forms of prison, up to 40 years, should be considered whether, in any case, a man must repent, if he has done everything he wanted and resociated himself in fact and that he must serve his sentence for up to 30 years. You know, every case in a prisoner is a special case, and yet that part should leave some small possibility of reviewing it, not three quarters because it's not two-thirds but three-quarters of the sentence in this segment. The second question is whether it is necessary to increase the actual number of works for which the punishment of a long - term prison can be imposed. I agree that it should be discussed among other things mainly when it comes to sexual issues with children, etc. Because I think it would be very important to consider these issues to be discussed and to tighten such measures. Furthermore, I must say also again where the legislator has come or the legislators of this bill have come from the assumption that everything can be resolved by law. You know, life is a lot more complicated than the law of any and this. And in that segment, please allow me to return to Article 11. You know, it's said like this that you could be banned from driving a motor vehicle forever. Among other things, he now says if, in view of his earlier conviction for crimes against traffic safety, there is a danger that he will drive a motor vehicle and commit such a criminal offence again, but the motor vehicle is a dangerous thing. And as soon as you sit in there, there's a danger that you can make a traffic deal or a traffic violation. Therefore, such a definition makes you practically leave a discretionary assessment to the court to permanently prohibit him from ever using it again. I think, however, if such a wish is desired, then it must be a particularly qualified case for which the law prescribes when the right to drive a motor vehicle is permanently taken away, so I want to show on this example that there is in fact a need to further examine these acts and to see, this bill and to see this final draft of the law what needs to be done. Of course, it is a particularly interesting question that this law comes from the assumption that no new means are needed for its execution. Listen, with the increase in fines, by turning most of the fines into prison sentences it is quite clear that it will be necessary to secure in the state budget new funds not only for the upgrade but also for the construction of completely new prisons. And in such a situation it's not, it just doesn't stand the the thesis that you won't need... the resources of the more that the existing laws are already now, according to the Minister of Justice, overbooked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in such a situation it is clear that this issue must be put on the agenda and must be seen what to do. And I would particularly like to emphasise that equating in responsibility for the taking of the most severe penalties for certain actions of a younger adult with any adult who is convicted should also be reviewed. I think, however, that persons between 18 and 21 years of age are not or at least in the most complex forms of possible criminal offence do not have to and cannot be in the same situation as an adult who is aware of all of his actions or can be aware before taking part in such actions, and that this should leave the possibility of a easing circumstance in view of the youth of the perpetrator of the crime and that such a situation should be taken into account. And of course, there are a few purely nomotechnical issues that need to be corrected but it still shows that it was actually taken over from the last reform, the criminal reform. For example, Article 122 states that the law will enter into force on 1 December 2005, which is practically and theoretically inconclusive, given that we have yet to receive a final bill, this is the first reading. This should therefore be further examined, as should the issues relating to a very interesting question of timeliness in Article 12, where this problem of criminal offences related to the property benefit achieved by a group of people or a criminal organisation that is in a time-related relationship with the criminal offence committed. You know, if it's an organized criminal organization, then it's enough that she exists and that she's committed a crime. There shouldn't be a time connection of decontinence. Then it's actually about accumulated criminal acts and it needs to be prescribed differently. The second question is what should be done with the property that was thus acquired. And I think that this should be reviewed once more and sharpened by the fact that this timeline is being erased as some kind of special qualification that is not necessarily necessary. Because, you know, if someone has chosen to enter a criminal organization to commit crimes themselves, the intention of getting into it by me should only be punishable and let alone when he commits the crime. And now we're even further saying it, but there's got to be some time connection that he did. I don't think that really makes sense, and that should be sharpened, and in that segment, I recommend that my colleagues review this crime in the bill until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50306	Thank you very much. Let's move on. My colleagues and colleagues, we have five more registered hearings, so we're going to finish this item on the agenda today, so how long has it been for those announced 13 hours. Here, so I'm asking you to be patient and we'll get it over with soon. Here, there's a word Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50307	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be useful to the promoter. I'm going to propose two modifications to two members and two new institutes. The first amendment relates to the criminal offence of the Republic of Croatia, which now reads: "Whoever, by using force or threatening to use force, tries to change the constitutional structure of the Republic of Croatia or to separate part of its territory or part of its state territory from another country or overthrow the President of the Republic?" The institution of overthrowing the President of the Republic has been detained from the semi-presidential system when it comes to armed rebellion and rejection, or they need equal status of threat to constitutional order to both the President of the Republic and this High House and other top authorities because we no longer have a semi-presidential system. When it comes to high treason itself because of very specific Croatian occasions here, he would suggest that, in addition to the armed rebellion, institutions of change in terms of which it would say this way: "Anyone who is initialled by an international agreement or contract, is left by an agreement or contract, or leaves other acts of international law to another state or intends to leave part of Croatian territory to be treated as a high treason." We have the Savudria Vale case, and unfortunately now we have a case that concerns you too, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a tragic case of demarcation at Klek and we have a case of Bokokotar Bay. So, we simply have to act preventively, we will not lock anyone up but that people also know that the Croatian public knows that this is practically about high treason acts. I propose a second amendment to Article 137. "the threat of state independence" which now reads: "A citizen of the Republic of Croatia who tries to bring Croatia into a position of subordination or addiction to another country will be punished by a sentence of at least three years." The threat of state independence and subordination unfortunately applies not only to other countries but also to the alliances of the states of a multinational company, a criminal organisation. Therefore, the concept of subordination in the modern sense and the loss of sovereignty should be significantly more broadly defined. As for the two new institutes, they are necessary for Croatia. The first is war profit and war fraud. I'd like to refer you to Madam Secretary of State on a big novel that was made within three years in the US legislation on the occasion of the last wars we must simply incriminate war profit and war fraud for two essential reasons, not because we intend to wage war but because treating war profit and war fraud in terms of war crimes allows us not to obsess over these war crimes. And it will eventually be possible to open up the issue of war profit and not to open in Zagreb today the shops of exclusive war profiteers and the whole so-called "war profiteers". The glamorous part of Croatia comes to these openings and we should feel humiliated. Me who had ID number three. The Assembly of the People's Guards I was ever ashamed to use that card because today I would still be ashamed in front of a man who was 24 hours in a trench and not five years in a battlefield. Furthermore, I suggest that the institution of the state's capture, on several occasions I have spoken of, these outdated concepts of criminal acts from economic crime are simply insufficient for very sophisticated ways of taking away wealth, destroying wealth, and I suggest that the criminal act of the state capture or capture of the state be instituted if you need anything in this area, in every good, 24 hours... Call in this area, I have all the documentation it is necessary to do that does not happen as a paradox is now happening which is defined by the sentence I will repeat in this Croatian Parliament, that constantly in this House for the politicization of crime, the establishment of investigative and other committees that are then engaged, people do not go on vacations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what we should be dealing with is investigators, state's attorneys, BOOKs, and I don't know which other institutions, to invite these people, and ask the date of birth, the name of the father, the sister, the brother, if you're being punished and what happened, they show up here and then they blatantly give interviews and say, "The MPs are a gang of idiots and bandits, the unemployed, the scum." Someone out there in that high house... only such suspicious types. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, there has been a lot of talk, crime, and libel. I'm personally not happy, I'll tell you I've been sued by a civil law professor from a Croatian town that I allegedly told him at lunch that it was a small mess. And since the current incrimination in two articles of the Law, it is an article of 199 and 200 that allows it to be as if I had told him on Croatian television, he has found three of his friends, although I would never tell such a man that he is small but that he is a great nobody. So, we think, I'm actually sure that this so-called. decriminalisation will serve only by attacks and further radicalisation of attacks on state-of-the-art Croatianism. The media in Croatia are owned by foreigners are mostly in the trend of reviewing recent history. So, if it's possible to write for any of us, I don't know, that you're stuck with your mother-in-law's leg. And if it decriminalizes or if the big slanders come out and no one stands up for us, but if it does... Madvejevic, the man I personally invited... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The committee and who refused, I have this letter here, only three people refused to be on the constitutional committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Zarko Puhovski, who accused the late president, whom I like to call the late dictator and wrote that we want to create... The Mussolini Fascist Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He refused... Matvejevic also rejected another distinguished lady and the late model Cardinal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is a shame to mention these people. Therefore, when it comes to slander, it should be very careful not to do what other European countries have not done, because we will be in a situation of absolute intellectual powerlessness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50308	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50309	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He explained to his colleague Slaven Letica, as he did to the professor in a professorial way that is high treason. Well, I don't know, that's why I signed up for the replica and not for the correction of the incorrect assumption that Professor Letica explained to me and the Croatian National Assembly and the Croatian public whether perhaps the high treason when you mentioned the Savudrija wave when the then president of the Croatian government and the longest-ever head of the party in this area after another Tito gave a initialed agreement to another country 505 square kilometers of Croatian state territory. I can understand why the head of the party and the government did it, obviously that he was wearing what was in 1956 to vote Vlad Bakaric said that it is not important in socialism where the border goes but it is important that the dictatorship of proletariats plays a role. Well, here's Mr. Letica, I'd like to ask you nicely if you as a professor can explain whether the then Prime Minister and, as I said, the longest-ever head of the party in these premises after another Tito committed high treason by giving Croatian state territory to another state by paraphrasing one agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50310	Thank you. But here, Mr. Leticia, I would pray that in some way we don't talk about some high treason as a fact but that's abstract, so no matter who it is. Here, that please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50311	Mr. President, you don't need to warn me of politeness, I'll never cross the bounds of rudeness. Under the positive law, that Mr. Representative is not high treason. If there is a political will and a novel is made that I have suggested here, it will certainly be high treason. In the core theoretical sense, it's high treason over high treason. Not only that one, but when it comes to the tiny, magnificent, shovel and... Mr. Baby, and if you ratify in this High House this House and you and Frane and Rose Tomasic and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Toncha Tadic and I will be ashamed of our Dalmatia without talking about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50312	Thank you. We have, we have another replica, and that's Mr. Frano Piploic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50313	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to make a contribution to this categorization mentioned by Honorable colleague Letica. Speaking of high treason, everyone has a place he mentioned here. However, it seems to me that in the category of high treason, the same should be put into question by those who also question Croatian values, in fact, cancel them. First of all, I think of those who, on the market, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in different ways, from the so-called areas of mass culture, various products distribute in different ways in the territory of Croatia. First of all, I think of various songs under which, who promotes these songs, who place them in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, by which, along with these songs and with the knife, many Croatian defenders and citizens have been killed, I think it must, too, have a category of high treason. I don't know what Professor Letica thinks about it, but that's my thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50314	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50315	This is neither essentially nor in a formal or legal sense nor high treason, however, of course the political, political and intellectual sense of this people must not allow me to lose what I quoted to you the other day in a Glass of Pigo's thought that the people should not lose sovereignty over reason. If we sell everything and the banks and the land and the trade, we're not lost yet. But if we sell reason and if we can't defend Croatian national identity in language, in culture, in diversity that someone recognizes us then it won't be high treason but it will be to say the con of generations coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50316	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50317	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If we remember that we also adopted amendments to the Penal Code last year, and in these amendments to the Penal Code, we took over everything that we actually signed under various international conventions and these amendments to the Penal Code, we redefined and clarified and explained certain criminal offences, and in any case there was a major step forward and a great progress in our criminal legislation. Last year, when we were making these changes, we said that as regards the tightening of criminal sanctions, that, as regards the tightening of criminal legislation, we would make certain analyses, certain checks, research and investigations, and only after that, we would enter into such a process because the tightening of criminal sanctions is indeed one step where the state, when society decides on such a thing, is being engulfed in some constitutional rights, constitutional freedoms of man and citizen. And that's exactly the law we have here today, because if we saw the attitude of the Croatian public and someone asked a referendum question whether they think it's our criminal policy, that it's our criminal law, that the judgments in the criminal proceedings being brought in our courts are mild or realistic, I think that the attitude and the public and all the others would be that those criminal convictions are mild. And in that very sense, this amendment to the Penal Code, I think the government has detected and detected the problem. The problem wasn't so much in, it seems to me the very height of punishment, but the problem was within that criminal justice framework. Every punishment prescribed is, in fact, the majority of them have a minimum and their maximum. And unfortunately, according to our established case-law when you have a minimum, let's say a minimum sentence for a certain act prescribed between 3 and 8 years and now that in a particular case the judge takes the case and within that minimum and the perpetrator of the crime first takes down a particular part because he has not committed any crime so far. Then because he is married and has underage children, and he is also being stripped of other circumstances that the legislator allows, and then we have come to the conclusion that most of these criminal convictions that are being passed, they are actually being brought near to the lower limit, the minimum, and not even in the middle or worse. And that's why I think the greatest quality of this law is what he's doing in a number of criminal acts right now on that range. He raises this minimum here and actually leaves the court that now that he says that sentence is no longer going so low because he has raised that threshold and therefore these criminal sanctions must be more severe in the future. And that's why I think both the Ministry and the Government have seen very well where the problem is. It also narrows down the power of actually taking these easy circumstances, and this will certainly lead to a tightening of criminal sanctions. In any case, there is a great responsibility further in the procedure of both the county courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia because the county courts, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, when they decide on the judgments to be brought by the State Attorney's Office for these very reasons that excessive penalties have been imposed in concrete cases. In any case, both state and county courts, the Supreme Court should have all this in mind. No, there's no doubt that this is, that this is the greatest liquid of this law, but in any case, I'm glad that the law is in the first reading. It means that there are still some provisions to be fixed in which I actually think that the Committee of the Constitution, for the Rules of Procedure and the political system in its report, has indicated and I think there is more space. I also agree with the fact that the economy is terribly dynamic. It really has various forms in which it is expressed and there are really very perfidious, very, very refined methods that happen in economic business and indeed various illegal works. And that's why there really should be a second reading to see if it's possible, if it's possible to install yet certain crimes that would sanction it and go with new descriptions and new incriminations. There have also been great discussions about the crimes related to privatisation and conversion and, of course, it is a process that takes place and if we have had such bitter experiences in this conversion and privatisation so far, let us learn some lessons from it. We can see what the negative behaviors were because many, many of these behaviors are and can be led into the existing acts that are prescribed, but many very difficult. So let's try to come up with some definitions and maybe install them until the second reading. I certainly agree with these discussions that went to protect workers. Why not make such a provision in criminal law that would actually be a threat to that employer not to pay his salary but to actually make those funds run over into other funds. And in the end, Mr. President, I support this law and I think this is a very, very good, very good amendment to the Penal Code and that it will contribute to the more severe punishment of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50318	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50319	I thank Mr. Vice President and support, of course, the amendments to this Law that go to meet public expectations that expect all types of crime and violence to be sanctioned and reduced to the least possible measure, although, of course, often in public because of what judges are judging according to the lowest possible penalties, they feel that the Penal Code is also wrong. So what needs to be explained in the end is that the Penal Code provides opportunities that are sometimes not and are not consummated that the most severe acts of violence and crime are sanctioned and more than the usual caselaw, so on that trail, if we already know what a difficulty it would be, I would be for the suggestion that in the case of serious acts relating to violence, especially sexually against children, against the powerless ones as well as all others, leaving children and breaking family obligations would raise that penalty so that in some way the judiciary would be forced to consume and at least punish those acts in order not to be repeated, because if those who do so have a feeling that their punishment would be mild, that in the course of punishment they would be able to come out because of good behavior earlier then they are not, in some way, and they are not warned that they would be punished more than the current practice. I have a proposal to delete this exception in Article 5, since it is about persons who I suppose have received a long sentence of prison for extremely serious crimes that can exceptionally come out before serving 2/3 of the sentence because European practice is more or less known and the world's exclusive service of at least two-thirds of the fines, and then the possibility of reducing and the penalty, and therefore I would delete these conditions outside. Article 305a) which, i.e. 101, amends Article 305a provides that those who are not authorised to communicate, submit or publish data on the identity of a protected person are to be sentenced from three months to three years in prison, but I would suggest that there be also newsrooms or houses or companies where these people do not only responsible journalists, but also editorials because this is also a common world practice. As for increasing the penalty for illegal hunting and fishing, I am therefore here because I come from northwestern Croatia where hunting is of course developed but automatically where there are savages and poaching I suggest that in this counterlaw I repeat hunting and fishing sanctioned with penalties greater than permitted. And now that others have touched and touched, I would say my own personal opinion on the defamation penalty, since it was settled in the existing Articles 203 and 200, which I believe are both good and in the trend of global and particularly European practice, and by consummating solutions in the legislation of 30 European countries, I must say that they all have a possible prison sentence for the defamation and criminal liability committed with the exception of a single one, and that is Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the High Representative of 2000 has passed the Law on the Protection of Defamation which has been removed from the Penal Code. So, by its unilateral decision, not by research and not by any court practice, and I repeat all other countries with more developed democracy and a stable judicial system such as Germany, Austria, Norway, Poland, the Czech Republic, Belgium, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain and England, respectively, have the possibility of prison sentences for up to two years and for slander. However, even under the current rules, it is very difficult to say what slander is or is not and I am not for these provisions to be changed in future amendments to the Penal Code and we in this second reading, and I would not want Bosnia and Herzegovina to happen to us. I must say that while respecting the deep role of the OSCE in Croatia, working with the OSCE all the time and within the Committee on Human Rights, of course as a member of the Committee and respecting therefore and the role of the Croatian Journalist Society, I am personally offended by the article I read on Wednesday 23.11. where it says that our future proposal for amending the Penal Code, which referred to the defamation, took me first to agree or to the debate to tell Mr. President of the OSCE in Croatia, Mrs. Gordani Grbić, as representatives of the Croatian Journalist Society before she even took him to the government that the government was discussing him and before he was discussed in the Assembly. So, I express my disdain for missing priorities in the debate. So, I think the first thing that the Croatian government had to discuss was this, and I would not want to have the feeling that someone else is writing our laws to us, but that the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament are doing it, and then, of course, it gives their opinion to anyone who has a share in it and who thinks that they should say something. And now I'm asking you, considering, I'm going to come to a particular case which, as a matter of fact, I've still been encouraged to insist that this solution and the possible punishment that I'm having very hard to implement, because all those who get parole know that they won't be in jail. It is only one possibility of warning to watch what is done, whether it is reported or deliberately slandered and insulted. So I'm asking you how my colleague and a very respected and respected representative of ours will be getting Dr. Andri Hebrang manages to prove if he sues, and I'm guessing he won't be able to prove Mr. Latin for what he said in his interview in "Free Dalmatia" from the day before yesterday, and I'm going to quote you exactly like this. When they asked him what would you do if you were the head director of HTV? He says it like this. I think that such pressures are worth it, and I find it hard to say what I would do if I were Galic, but I certainly wouldn't pay too much attention to Hebrang because it's about a notorious liar who admits it. So I wouldn't give him any importance because he's inconsistencies, he's lying, and I don't consider him politically relevant at all. Hebrang is a man who ruined Croatian health through the famous reform of the 1990s, and now he is given the opportunity to destroy the freedom of the media for which we fought so bloodyly. So I'm asking you how someone now and to prove whether this is Latin's opinion or whether it's intended to make a difference in advance, hesitant, and to know that you will not suffer any consequences and therefore I insist that journalists be in accordance with the articles of the Constitution guaranteeing equality and equality for every citizen in front of all that is right and obligation. So, if journalists were to be just equal, simply as other citizens have consequences for the responsibility or irresponsibility of the words spoken to someone who destroys a family, when they ruin someone's business career and for some other inconclusive consequences of the challenge of course to others, no one should be allowed to do anything because of some sense of freedom of the media, and again to say to the media in Croatia, our legislation, therefore, and the solutions that are in the current law are in the trend of the most developed democracies in Europe with which we are naturally comparing ourselves and who we want to enter also according to existing articles and their criminal laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50320	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Here you go, Mr. Puplic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50321	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, colleague Trakostanec made one inaccuracies that Mrs. Minister ran to the OSC or the Croatian Journalist Society. She didn't want to do anything out there that wasn't common. It is common for the profession to be consulted, to consult experiences in other countries that have this better solved than we have, and it is normal to ask the profession to say its own before it comes here to the Croatian Parliament or before it comes to the Government. A clear responsibility for journalists must be equal to the responsibility of each employee. However, it might be better if we had asked in some of our relations to journalists' associations that, if no journalist in Croatia could do business before getting a license. Today everyone becomes a journalist to you, today anyone can become a journalist without actually having the conditions to be a journalist. He doesn't know professional standards, he doesn't know ethical standards. He's just often in the hands of people who abuse him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50322	Thank you very much. He asked for the word Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go, Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50323	Mr. Vice President, in this Assembly hall, insults have been made to high treason by name and last name, and at the same time we are talking about the decency of conduct. For the SDP Club, these insults are not surprising because they are part of the political ways of speech. But what bothers the SDP club is that it's from the presidential table it's set up according to those statements. That's why the club wants a five-minute break to take a stand, because it's unacceptable for the club to behave as president.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50324	The president's desk warned lawmakers to speak abstractly about the bill, not by mentioning the name. And on Mr. Lonchar's request that Mr. Letica plead whether or not he broke it in some way, did he consider it to be Mr. Letica's high treason said that he didn't consider it and that it wasn't in our current law. Therefore, I think that this is how the debate on the bill is reduced, and with a warning that they should be abstract not individually and mentioning the name, I think that part of the debate at the Croatian Parliament has been properly concluded. But if you're looking for a break she can be 10 minutes, so I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. And at 13,24 we'll continue. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the SDP club asked for a break. Who's going on behalf of the club? Mrs. Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50326	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It has almost become a common practice to send different, more and more frequently unacceptable messages from the Assembly that we are sitting in, to the public. Individuals amongst us without any arguments, without any basis for facts, without any political support anymore in favour of any political circus call individuals or individual political groups to what just happened, accusing them of one terrible accusation, a charge of high treason. A political group of SDPs has been charged with high treason at the moment, and the name and last name of SDP president Ivica Racan. We know this is a political arena. It did not occur to us to correct false allegations, for they are the fruit of one’s hatred and intolerance. It has not occurred to us to replicate, it has not occurred to us this time or protest, to show by physical protest how much we disagree with this kind of work in Parliament, but what has hurt us greatly and offended the behavior of the presidential table that this occasion, but also in several quite concrete evidence cases throughout this week has shown that, even though we are all, and should be even, shows different standards. Some people are allowed everything. Probably because such one or two hands are necessary for the parliamentary majority to vote for the congregation’s most important decision. We don't mind that, but we do have a problem here without any reaction from the President's desk tolerate intolerant behavior, spreading hatred. All these are the values prescribed by our Constitution, all of these are values which, if we MPs have forgotten occasionally, should not forget those who are obliged to maintain order and some fundamental values in this House. My colleagues and colleagues often, in the heat of political struggle, we can cross the line, we can say an ugly word or an insult to each other, because it's our job, it's part of what we do here. Politically we are outvoted, we are trying to achieve voter confidence, we are trying best to present our arguments in this political struggle. But it's highly unacceptable, and we at the SDP club don't want to tolerate it anymore, that the leadership of the Parliament is so tolerated towards the extremely unacceptable behaviour of individuals in this House. While some read the rules of the Rules of Procedure and warn others who break the Rules of Procedure are supported by the President's desk, they are in some way supported even in these very ugly and offensive statements such as charges of high treason. This time we're very offended. Not only are we sitting in this House, and we are members of the SDP Club, but we have asked for this break and we express these words on behalf of all our colleagues, but we also say on behalf of all those citizens who have supported our option in the elections, who, contrary to the opinion of some of you, do not think that we are high-level traitors, think that we have endangered the national interests of Croatia but on the contrary, think that we have done everything best to preserve these national interests. Without any controversy or desire to paralyze this moment with anyone in this Chamber, the SDP Club is seeking a session of the Assembly Presidency and, at the latest, before the beginning of this session. Whether this session will be convened and held, and we want to discuss on it the behaviour of the presidential table, the leadership of the Parliament in relation to all of us parliamentary representatives, and whether it will be held may be the strongest argument in favour of whether it supports the spread of hatred and intolerance or is supported by the preservation of the dignity and of this institution, but also each of us individually, regardless of the differences in our political views and beliefs. Only those who don't have a program try to discredit others on an ideological basis. Only those who have served Communism fates are today called our Social Democrats for Communist Sins. We don't want to tolerate that anymore. The Bureau's session will be held at the latest Monday, before the session starts. That's our request. If things can't be settled where they need to be solved, then we'll also start protecting the integrity of our policies, our political groups, our voters and us as individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50327	You will receive a reply from the President's desk, because half of your presentation was directed towards the President's desk after I had to give the Rules of Procedure an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50328	Mr. President, the lady who was now speaking has injured Article 214. Let me explain. She said, quote: "Some are allowed all for one or two hands" that article literally says how one can be hurt. I'm glad the lady said this on behalf of her party what she said. It's white in here now that the party can't do without the enemy. She also showed in the finale of her speech how she threatens and calls the party Social Democrats. If she were a little more educated, she would know that the party and the Social Democrats, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, have been at war since 1905. For the party, the Social Democrats have always been auditists. We who have studied and know something about it can talk about it. But since time doesn't allow me to talk any longer, I can just say it. In spite of this article, the 214th party has shown that it is always problematic when it is told the truth because the party since it exists in its being, is always at war and conflict with the truth. Therefore, there is no one here who is allowed to do all things, nor does he have those who spread hate. If the lady knew the history of her party, then she would know who was spreading, who was implementing and who was doing the hate and what were the consequences of hate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50329	Mr. Representative, you have called on article 214 which speaks of when the warning is made. I don't see, I haven't seen any element of that to give a warning. So you called on an article that had nothing to do with this debate that we started here. ... This is where you say when, I, I didn't judge it so I didn't say a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] With regard to the regrets of the presidential table, although Mrs Antunovic said she did not want the controversy here, but that half of the debate was addressed to the presidential table then you will get an answer from the presidential table that is now. First of all, you claim that for several days now, he has been unequally reacting here from the President's desk, sharing warnings. Both the one and the other reminders I shared yesterday to Mr. Stazic and you, ma'am, are based on the Rules of Procedure. I said them, and there's no reason for you to complain about it. Or if you had something then you should have called on how you didn't deserve it and why you didn't deserve it. The second thing, in terms of a particular case here in the debates of Mr. Slaven Letica and Mr. Ivo Lončar, I was of the opinion that it was enough that I warned that the law was being debated abstractly and not "ad persona". So that's what Mr. Letica said that he should not be warned in this regard, and I just explained to you on the question of Mr. Loncar whether or not he is, he can be considered a high treason, mentioning his name. Mr. Letica replied he couldn't be considered because it wasn't incriminating in our laws. I don't see what I should have done further, and I don't see any reason not to abstractally discuss certain incriminations that MPs suggest to enter the Penal Code. He said so, and mentioning the name was warned from the Presidential Table that it should be avoided, that it should be discussed abstractly about certain incriminating acts that should actually be entered into the Penal Code. I here declare to all of you that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, that I led the session properly and these sessions in progress last week. And that the attack on the president's desk and my running session shows something else. It shows that the way it wants to achieve or homogenize a state that gets out of control, and then it's looking for a way to cover it up to the public, to attack those who don't deserve it. That's my answer to you, and now we have, to your debate. And now we have three corrections to the incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Ivo Lonchar. ... There is, there is no replica. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] He's got an ID.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50330	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50331	You can correct an incorrect quote, but you can't correct a replica. It is at the presentation of representatives of the club of representatives, it is the second representative of the club of representatives. If they're not present, why do you mind correcting the incorrect allegations? Is that your idea of democracy? That your claims can't be answered? Excuse me, Article 223a "to expose the president or vice-president of the club of representatives and other representatives of the club of representatives, if they are not present, a replica is not allowed and an incorrect quote can be corrected". Here you go, incorrect quote, Mr. Ivo Lonchart.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50332	The lady said "publics are being sent extremely unacceptable messages", one quote. Second, "one party has been accused", I did not accuse the party but spoke of the party. Third, "Accused is Hansel Racan." I didn't mention Racan's edge at all. I'm glad the deputy party chief recognized her boss. He says, "breathing hatred and intolerance." No one here has spread hate or tolerance. This is another way to prove that the party can't do without the enemy and after it's said I'm in a replica, read what the replica is. If you don't have a dictionary of foreign words, I'll have it in my room and you'll see. I asked through the replica if it was high treason. And after that, the offended party left nicely as it was in 91st June 26th when the Declaration of Independence of the Croatian Party escaped from this assembly. I have to admit, I was a little scared because I thought the party would go to its natural habitat, into the woods. And when the game goes into the woods, then there's cataclysm.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50333	Mr. Lonchar, I give you a warning that you're sending our colleagues into the woods. That's not appropriate. Correction of the incorrect, Mr. Loncar, I have given you a warning because of inappropriate expression of a parliamentary party Second, Mrs. Anna Lovrin, correction of an incorrect quote. [[/Intruder: All right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50334	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, distinguished representative Antunovic said our job here is to insult each other in the heat of political struggle. I certainly don't think it's our job to insult ourselves. It is our job to invest all our knowledge, mar and wisdom in order to streamline legal texts and bring laws to improve the lives of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50335	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Antunovic, it is not true that the President's desk did not react to what you have offended today. Why didn't you, then, be offended when he made a statement to a foreign press, he made a statement to a foreign press that Croatia was under investigation of crime? Why didn't you take offense when they said HDZ was a criminal organization? Why weren't you offended when they said they said or they said 10 years of darkness? For 10 years of dictatorship, the Republic of Croatia has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in the end, you mention what you're saying, I'm not telling you personally, but to all of you. Do not mention in the Croatian Parliament hate because all those who created the Croatian state created it with love and our hatred is foreign. And it's not easy for you and your people to live and die in hate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50337	Ladies and gentlemen It is not said that Croatia is under investigation but, Mrs Zdenka, said otherwise. [[Intruder: Hate, hate.]] Therefore, you did not quote in the first part the way it was, although all these arguments you made also deserve comment, but not only when it comes to one party, but when it comes to other parties. The other day, we had a public charge in the House that one party is a criminal organization, we didn't notice any responses from the benches that are now so fiercely responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50338	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50339	I'm not part of your word and sit down please. ... I won't, if you continue, I'll give you a warning and get you out of the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: And it can.]] Did you insult me now? It is, isn't it? [[I did.]] Well, that's, if you insulted me and admit it then it serves you and it talks about you, not me. Let's move on to the agenda, Anna Lovrin has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. Well, here's the hard way to get back to one, let's say no to the controversy, and here's hoping that the entire left block of this assembly won't come out, so we'll have someone to talk to and who to pollemize with. I would refer, in relation to this amendment to the Penal Code, to one of the reasons why the proposed amendments to the Penal Code, which led to these amendments, which is certainly an analysis of the caselaw, because each so long after some law is applied should be analysed whether and in its implementation it expresses and implements the law's intention. Here it was said here in the debate several times that, so symptomatically let's say the statute of limitations is extended in fact only for the smallest crimes, for minor crimes, that only the lower limit of punishment is increased, that the upper limit is left intact. That's true, but it's so precisely because the legislator is somewhere in the text of the '97 KZ. in an explanation in the penalty regulation work, he just said that he had set a wide range of penalties to leave the possibility of individualising that punishment, but what happened in practice? In practice, it was precisely that the courts always found a series of easy circumstances and that, in most cases, the lowest prescribed penalty had just been imposed. This is the reason why these amendments and additions to the laws had to apply those penalties precisely within their lower limit, because there was no reason to increase the ceiling, since they were in the most frequent number of cases not even pronounced at the maximum limit of the fine. It's the same thing that happens in antiquity. There is an objection why it is only for the leprosy and minor crimes to be extended into statutes of limitations. I hold that no crime, no matter how little it can and shouldn't fall into oblivion for this reason, should be prosecuted and punished if it is determined that someone has committed a crime. Given what the situation in the judiciary is and the reason is, the situation in the judiciary is such that crimes fall into oblivion, and I don't think any state can allow it. Why hasn't the limitation period increased for serious criminal offences? As we also heard from Madam Secretary of State in reasons, there was no reason why the deadlines were so high that no serious crime had occurred that it had fallen into obsolescence, and therefore there was no reason to extend that limitation period. What is still good, here in this law is a fair repression against corruption, because it is certain that corruption is one of the problems in our country and that sanctions for this crime should be tightened, possibly and incriminate new crimes, and here we see that there is an increased and upper limit of crime, and by more than 50% which is good. And one more thing about court practice, and now I'm also going to look back on the defamation crime. Here Mr Stazić noted that the current Penal Code has been quite well regulated in view of the fact that the article 200, which regulates slander, has been introduced in the last amendments and additions to Article 203, which states that, in that provision, ex-plite says there is no criminal offence when there is, among other things, defamation content referred to in Article 200, which has been achieved or made available to others in scientific, literary, artistic or public information, in the performance of official duties, political or other public or social activities, either in the press business or in the defence of any right or in the protection of legitimate interests, unless, in the manner of expression and other circumstances, it clearly results in a matter of conduct which was intended only to harm someone's honor or reputation. I also hold, as well as Mr. Stazic, that this is quite good and quite enough and that Article 203 of the existing Penal Code is, in fact, a crime of defamation is fully decriminalized, because by transferring the burden of evidence from the defendant to the prosecutor and by proving the intention so difficult that it will be almost difficult to pass any judicial verdict condemning. Now, but they say off the record that the media is the fourth government in the country, and somehow it seems to me that they're the first government in the country because they're a little afraid of people and courts and the police, but here's what the media is all about, we're all careful because there's their power immeasurable, and there's responsibility, and not so immeasurably immeasurable. And I agree that if law enforcement and judicial practice do not carry out the will of the legislator, and they do not act illegally, because it would mean if it were possible for the court to act unlawfully in a third degree, so that if through the legal act of the court it is possible not to achieve the will of the legislator and the law, then that means that there is no well-stupulated legal norm. I am absolutely in favour of this and therefore the amendments and additions to the law for a number of criminal offences where the lower limits of penalties and limitation periods have increased, but in this case slanders and the application of Article 203. The KZ of the existing I believe that it is still very, very premature to talk about its application in practice. Says Mr. Stazic that all of this is well regulated by law, but that the judges, the question is whether judges want and know, is really a question, but in my knowledge, and maybe I have the wrong one to correct me if anyone knows, we're kind of upset here about what? About two inadmissible verdicts. So we absolutely don't have court practice, we don't have the power to rule, we don't have the Supreme Court's rulings. Therefore, we cannot talk about the results of the application of this article in practice, and we may be able to talk about this after we have a longer-term court practice and have the rightful judgments, and we will be able to talk about it. Why jump us? Well, here I am now in front of me a review of the punitiveness of slander in the Member States of the Council of Europe. As a result, no European state has decriminalised the crime of slander except for Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the High Representative passed a Law on the Protection against Defamation, which was removed from the Penal Code. So such a high representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina but not in his country and so not in 30 Council of Europe member states, what we have here is a comparative review that I do not read. So of the 30 countries listed here exclusively in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a decriminalized act of defamation. And I note that this is not about freedom of information. I believe that often, here and when we talk about the impact on judges, the judiciary is often puzzled by the concepts of information and the concepts of commenting on unlawful judgments, and with the suggestion of a judicial official what should be done. So, the information is one thing, suggesting what a judicial official should do is something else, and then we hear also here from an esteemed representative, so you can see that there's a proposer because there's been a motion for decriminalisation before, and that's what the government didn't want to respect, but here's the proposer now pressed against the public. And I'm now asking what the public is, is that a few texts after two inadmissible verdicts and parliamentary issues or what's sticking to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50341	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Zdenka Babic-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be brief. Comrade Lovrin, I support everything you've said about the crime for slander. And I'm for freedom of the press, freedom of public word, but gentlemen and Mrs. Collars, I'm going to have to ask you something, or here, representatives of the Justice Department. And those who do not receive justice because of the falsely spoken words. Not everyone and not everyone has every chance as it happened, I quote, from the press. Robert Frank was sentenced to a New List journalist for three months, conditional on a year in prison for his views on Ksenija Linic. Secondly, I quote, Slavica Mrkic-Modric, journalist "New List", was sentenced to two months, conditionally for a year because she wrote in the column that Ksenija Linic was standing in line at the Rijeka Bank, etc. There are also cases that those who wanted to respond falsely to the means of public communication would never have experienced justice in the Law on freedom of public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50343	Thank you. Mrs. Lovrin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mrs. Babic-Petricevic, what are they going to do? Well, they'll be frustrated, they'll be sad, they'll have a sense of unequal availability of courts to all the citizens of this country, and maybe they're about what I don't know, but that's exactly what our justice reform is about, that this is no longer happening, that someone to the courts and judges can be easier and someone harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50345	Thank you. And as last in the debate, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50346	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Every day in the paper we read about the most reckless rapes and violence of this kind and it is especially terrible to read what happens to children in terms of sexual exploitation. I'd say something about that. Article 188 speaks of rape, and it says: "Who else by using force or threatening to attack directly on her life or her body, or to the life or body of her loved one is forced to have sexual intercourse or to have sexual intercourse with her will be punished by imprisonment" and there is now a change of "from 3 to 10 years" and earlier it was between 1 to 10 years. As far as I'm concerned, this kind of crime, crime, I don't know what to call it, I wouldn't have anything against life imprisonment, and I'm really sorry that we don't have a suspended sentence in our Penal Code, a life sentence, and especially sexual violence against children. But what I'm interested in here is a comparison of this Article 188 to Article 190. It's an article called "The Force of Sexual Relations." So, rape is a three to ten-year sentence, which I think is a little bit. And the coercion of sexual intercourse that is defined as "Whose other person is forced to have sex or to have an equal sex shop with a serious threat to some serious evil will be punished by prison" for the new "six months to five years". So I'm really wondering what's the difference between rape and sexual coercion. It's hard to spot. When I force someone to have sex, it's called being forced to do something. We can make up whatever we want, but there's a six-month sentence here, three months ago, six months to five years ago. So this coercion to sexual relations with a serious threat to some serious evil, and above it is said to be a death threat, etc. and the difference is you've been prevented from three years to ten years and here from six months to five years. It means that you can get six months in prison for forcing someone to have sex with a serious threat to some serious evil. I think that's a little inadmissible. And you see, Article 194. Satisfaction in front of a child or a minor is a suspended sentence from six months to three years, and coercion to sexual intercourse is six months to five years. It's just as incomprehensible to me. So, gratifying desire in front of a person can get you up to three years and for coercion to have sex for a maximum of five years. It seems to me that the difference is really small. Article 189 sex with an powerless person. If, therefore, with a mentally ill, mentally impaired, inadequately mentally developed, etc. A person with developmental disorders if you force her into sexual intercourse or rape in translation you will be punished, a sentence of three years to eight years has been prevented. But if you do it in a particularly humiliating way, you will be punished from three to ten years. No matter how humiliating it is when you force someone to have sex or rape him. So you're doing something. That means there's some kind of fine rape and some ugly rape, that there's some kind of rape that hasn't been committed in a humiliating way. Please give me an explanation of what a rape that has not been committed in a humiliating way. There is no greater humiliation, the next humiliation is to take your life, to take your life. And there's a suspended sentence, you know how much? The same. Three to ten years. So if you commit rape on an powerless person, you get "fine way" in quotes from 3 to 8 years old. If, in a humiliating way, 3 to 10, if this guy dies while you rape him, then you get equal to 3 to 10 years. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable. In my opinion, it's a life-long law, or now it's the highest suspended sentence of 40 years. I can't figure it out, so this graduation, I can't, I can't, I don't get it in my head. So, if a raped person dies, you will be equally prevented, and how much you will get asks God. Because we read all sorts of things about all kinds of judgments. And today we were able to read about a father who raped his underage daughter, etc. This is absolutely unacceptable to me. It's a sexual relationship with a child. The suspended sentence, who performs sexual relations, etc., with a child will be punished from 3 to 8 years of age. If he commits child rape but taking advantage of his position then he can get two years more, from 3 to 10 years. So who's being protected here? So here the victim is in the same position and the perpetrator of rape can therefore get less if he hasn't taken advantage of his position. And if he used his hands, if he used his strength, unlike 30 years old, a 10-year-old kid, he's 40, 50, 60, I don't know what kind of cargo he's got. So, then, then it's not taking advantage of the position because it's not the director of that child, or I don't know the teacher, it's incomprehensible to me. In my opinion, those lives were ruined, without further ado, we all know that. Raping kids, taking their lives, at least that normal life. And that's why those who do it should be punished for the rest of their lives by me. Since there is no punishment, then they should be punished by the long-term prison provided for in paragraph 5 if the death of a child occurs. But then imagine, you can be sentenced and punished by a long-term prison, I guess that's up to 40 years old, but you can be five years old, because it's the lowest five years, so I don't know, I'd put the lowest one, if it's 35 years old tops or 39 and tops 40 years. Who can be punished at the age of five who raped a child who died for that rape? I mean, we're all sensitive to these things, and I think the public would absolutely support a slightly greater tightening of the obstacles to these acts. The rest of this I wouldn't be talking about right now, even in this atmosphere that was created in this hall when it came to some things, I think it's bad. But it wouldn't be worse, I don't know what law that would go into, but even if corrupt politicians were punished as hard as possible and as often as possible, to the joy of all citizens and the joy of honest politicians. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50347	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke with full law about the need to increase the obstacles and insisted that a long-term prison be imposed for certain acts. This punishment should also be imposed for the act, for example. abuse of citizens' trust to acquire material benefits. Because there are politicians, you know, there are politicians here in the Parliament who put themselves on the list, so when they were elected to this House, then they went off the list, abused citizens' trust with the parties they were elected to, they took off the party, so that they could gain a material benefit from a million kuna for the mandate. As a rule, they're exhibitionists, we know who they are here among our colleagues who here and this is how they act politically only because of it, and only for the reason that they take a million kuna from this country. Such abuse of voters is a complete disregard for the state in which the political, political, non-respect of the citizens who chose them, because they left the party that these voters trusted. And disrespecting any moral consideration because for this, their quasi-political action, as I say, is usually exhibitionistic and offensive because it is their only platform of action from this country, they take a million kunas. For 40 years, the maximum suspended penalty of a long-term law should only be imposed for them to be removed from politics for 40 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50349	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50350	A fellow intern if it's exhibitionism, he's well charged. It's rarely well-paid exhibitionism and these political equilibrists and exhibitionists, people collect stuff, some stamps, some old money, and some of these... These fresh ones so you can do it, maybe they're collectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you get a million kunas because you're so independent, it's just proof that you're highly addictive and you have to prove it every day because whoever pays you is asking you to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50351	Thank you very much. Jure Bitunjac, same replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50352	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is clear to you and to me that the legislator, or the bill of law, must put a clear distinction between rape and coercion. You know that these are two different things, different in at least one part of the coercion doesn't have to involve physical mode, physical coercion. So, it's not describing the same, same, I'm going... but there is a difference here, the difference and the legislator as such must in some way set the difference between these two acts, although both are when it comes to persons, when it comes to individuals, when it comes to society for building. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will not speak of height alone, however, I must say that it does not serve your colleague, Stazic, to honor the matter we are discussing, which is very serious, and the law and objects themselves are very serious but pure political exhibitionism in some way mentioning individuals in politics, were they in some party, they were independent. Therefore, when we talk about this law, I think we should find, then make a dissent and absorb, absorb from any policies because this is the law in which the legislator and we here in the Parliament that we are making such a law, which we are going to vote in this... form in some way we want some things in our society to regulate and protect individuals, protect men, protect women, and protect... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50353	Answer Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50354	Well, I could agree with my colleague Bitunjec if it were dystinism and kind of coercion... tried in different ways to explain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you see, then, for the rape that in itself has forced, so, with the threat and so on, you get between 3 and 10 years. For coercion, then, under coercion with a serious threat of serious evil, it says: "With a serious threat to some serious evil, you get 6 months to 5 years". So you can get six months with the threat of severe evil, so that's the same thing, me, and I'm not going to talk about what's hard for some to go around with so that your own wife can be raped. But that's fine. It can be as normal a thing as anyone can be, and sex here is not important. After all, we've had a lot of rape cases and male children lately, and so on, and all of these are tragic stories and cataracts, and I mean, the most tragic thing is when you read, "a rapist came out and raped again." So what kind of society is that, with all due respect to anyone and anything, what kind of society lets that happen? We've got people in prison who say, "I'm going to get out and I'm going to kill again." And do it. Well, that's why I'd put in a life sentence. Me, me, a life sentence, a life sentence. And as far as this goes, this story about politicians is just as sad. And this word about an independent... I could now say to you as a party member, "And what you defend is nothing but proof of how independent they are." You can't defend a thing in principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's hard for me to understand that million kunas too. That wasn't always. It showed up. I know a lot of HDZ people who don't accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50355	Thank you very much. This ended the debate unless he wanted to, Mrs. Snjezana Bagic, State Secretary of the Justice Department. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this very long time, I dare say also a heated debate on the text Amendments and the addition of the Penal Code in the closing statement I would only like to thank you all. To thank for showing how important laws that touch freedom, rights, health, honor, the dignity of people are to make it difficult to pass a law that will satisfy different thinking, different interests, and how it is then difficult to apply in practice. But what is the penalty law to answer? In fact, it should act with its content on the one hand preventively, and on the other hand repressively if there is a criminal offence to offer such a catalogue of criminal offences and penalties that will show an appropriate reaction of society to this, to such phenomena. There were objections that the law was passed on to wars and that there was a capacitation. I would really not agree with this because no one's interest is in the Government or the Parliament as a legislator to pass a law that will reflect this rather than a truly thorough reflection on how a state, society through this Law, can best respond to all the challenges of violation of the values that society protects. And that is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to this Parliament, and I hope it will adopt two stages of the amendment and addition of criminal legislation that should respond to this desired goal. And that's why the government went to phase two after the first where we harmonised our legislation with international norms and where we defined it seems to me some concepts that were not in line with these standards, and here we went far beyond the analysis of the occurrences of certain forms of criminal acts through discussion and comparison even comparatively with other countries on the one hand and through court practice to give to change these clusters or offered values of the law. And it turns out there are different opinions again. If we raise the upper limit, it turns out that maybe it's not good because it's supposed to be abused by easing punishment. On the contrary, if we have raised the upper limit of punishment, then in no case can the penalty be reduced from one side. On the other hand, we have already reduced the mitigation of penalties through a change of law that shortens, narrows the court's ability to use that criminal law institute. In the focus of interest were several groups of criminal acts and they show where the sensitivity of the public is at the moment. It seems to me that exactly criminal legislation in some way reflects the real life situation, the reality of the moment. If I may say so in view of the crime I'm talking about, I'm glad that at the end of this debate, the issue of this type of crime has been raised. So acts that go directly against people like crimes of rape. Not to justify them, but to encourage all of us and remind all of us that today is International Day against Family Violence. The crimes of rape and all crimes against monsters are indeed serious crimes. They're sensitive crimes. Dear Representative Jurjevic presented this review of penalties that are said to be more difficult. The government has offered one appropriate, in its assessment an appropriate response by increasing these crimes both at the lower and upper limit of such crimes and by responding to the forms of such offences. The truth is the crime of rape can be committed and... family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is something that has been introduced through the amendments and additions to our legislation, which may have been unimaginable to us before, and to the reaction I was encouraged by last night's "Open" show, where among other things when there was a topic: "Violence in the family" in the discussion between scientists and practitioners of science from the Law School, saying about the crime of rape when committed by someone in the family said: "This is a difference that is important to you in proof. If a crime of rape was committed somewhere outside, if, for example, it's in the park and it's committed by someone third, then the circumstances of proving such a crime are much easier. If you have a crime committed in the family there are circumstances of proof much, much harder and more sophisticated." So it's not always the judges who were often called here, it's not easy. Sometimes we lose sight of such circumstances of criminal acts that are really hard to prove. This means that even on those who prove themselves and on judges, there is far greater responsibility. And that's not the same in some way, it's not the same, but it points us to some other criminal acts that are here were in the public's interest and that again show our need, need and government as a legislator and legislator to respond adequately to such criminal acts. It's an economic crime. She splits twice. Those crimes or which are deemed to have been committed during the conversion and privatisation and all that they will have to react to in the future. The government has already offered such descriptions of the crime of economic crime through amendments and additions to the laws that intend to provide this description of the entity of criminal offences that will adequately respond to such phenomenal forms. Now it's proposed to tighten the fines. All I have to say is, you wouldn't get the wrong impression here in this High House. As regards commercial offences, there is not a single harmonisation obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that would remain unrealised. Just last week, the government reviewed measures that were realised or not and none that would relate to crimes including economic crime. So that part should not be harmonised and that part is considered at least in... a sense of suitably arranged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third group of crimes are crimes against honor and respect. I cannot be taken from the impression that perhaps in this House of High and debate these criminal acts more because they are also representatives not only of the people but of the persons who act publicly and who are often exposed then to the court of the public. It is always my impression that sometimes we may lose sight of the fact that even an ordinary citizen, an ordinary man may be exposed to such a once-in-a-lifetime maybe a public link and that his position should also be taken into account in that case. I also don't think it's necessary to submit to pressures or strengths or the influence of the media. Clearly, if the means of public communication are made, let the newspaper or television show that this influence is great about it, there is no doubt or dispute anymore and they may not even be off the record but even officially the fourth power. Today, there is a press seminar in Opatija where it will be one of the topics of debate, and it is expected that fellow journalists may at times be more self-critical of their profession and professional ethics. But the job of the legislator when it comes to these criminal acts is to give an appropriate reaction to any illegal behaviour and we will probably never be, to reach full consensus on how we can respond appropriately. In recent amendments and additions to the law, the area of decriminalisation of this crime is particularly when it comes to this so-called crime. The public slander was significantly narrowed down. Now the latest events show that the reaction itself may not have been appropriate. In doing so, I do not think that any pressures or pressures from the media should be subjected to, but rather systematically, systematically, to review and bring about changes that will allow the legislative and judicial reactions to be appropriate to that necessity in a democratic society. And in this segment, and we discussed it in the Courts Act when it comes to courts, then the difference between and I won't repeat it here anymore because we discussed it at the Law on Courts between information, conversion and influence. This is the provision of Article 6 which is related to this Article 309(2). Penalty law. However, I have already said in the opening statement and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will see, analyse further this remark of Article 203 and offer a solution that will not only then go after any further decriminalisation or form of punishment that can be prescribed for crimes against honor and respect not only for these acts, but for all similar acts to achieve the balance of acts. And there's also only one reaction of distinguished MPs not in the hall. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It can also suggest, suggest of course, and we know that there is certain supervision of international organisations when it comes to segments of our society. The OSCE mission to us was followed by war crimes trials and so on, and what was passed on in the media was actually one of the meetings already scheduled by the justice minister with the head of the OSCE mission in Croatia, where one of the topics was, of course, also the latest public media events simply because they happened at that time when the meeting was already scheduled, so the minister just told you what she had agreed earlier in the government and transferred the funds to public communications. I find it so important to say so briefly about the basic points of this debate, of course, and this debate shows that this debate should once again be thoroughly discussed all of this, which is proposed by respecting the proposals that have been made in this debate, so that ultimately the law that will be adopted will be as good as possible and maintain the needs of our society when it comes to criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50357	Thank you very much. I conclude the session, the debate in fact, and the continuation of the session is on Tuesday 29th at 9.30 p.m. by voting or by deciding on amendments to the budget and to the Law on the implementation of the state budget. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-11-25-0.u50358	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed conclusion came with 87 votes for and 12 abstentions. Let's go to - - Proposed Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, first reading P.Z. No. 363 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the adoption of the Law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading have been implemented by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture, for human rights and the rights of national minorities and gender equality. State Secretary Nevio Šetić will further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
