ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51059	First we have a point - Report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006, during 2003 and 2004; The material was received by mail and delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the report at the session. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the report? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, among generation solidarity, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity Mr Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51060	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, the apology of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which due to the trip to Split for the assignment of the house to the 100% disabled today is not in a position to attend this debate. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 at a session held on 16 January 2003. The Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities for whom administrative and other tasks are carried out by the Ministry of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which is responsible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is responsible for the implementation of a joint report on the implementation of measures in the National Strategy and the Single Policy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006. The report shall include an overview of the state of implementation of the National Strategy during 2003 and 2004. The Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion at the 13th session held on 1 April 2005 that obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of measures under the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006. The National Strategy for Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 contains an action programme or measures in the areas of family, civil society, health, sport and recreation, education, professional rehabilitation, employment and work, housing, mobility and accessibility, pension insurance, social assistance and care, coordination and information. The report shall contain an indication of the activities to each individual extent according to those areas. In terms of efficiency, it should be said that some of the 70 measures have been achieved in full, 12 measures, that some are under way, 46. Of the measures under way, 19 of them are carried out continuously and 12 of the strategy measures have not been implemented. Although caring for people with special needs is an area where it is always possible to do more and in which we are never satisfied, it is important to say that it is continuously and systematically improving in all areas of action in accordance with the material and other opportunities of society. For example, in the area of family and civil society, significant resources are allocated to finance the basic activity of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and their inclusion in the life of the local community. In 2004, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity deployed a total of 8 and a half million kunas from the state budget and part of the gambling funds, while the Ministry of Health and Social Care allocated 34 million kuna from the same sources in 2003, and for 2004. 27 million kuna. In order to change the forms of care outside the institutional forms, the establishment of a home for an independent residence to provide care outside of its own family in Osijek, Bjelovar and Slavonski Brod has been approved. Civil service services are also enabled in the Associations of Persons with Disabilities. In the field of health, sports and recreation, activities programmes have been developed to increase preventive examinations of people with disabilities and to prevent disability. A special working body for orthopaedic and other assistance to develop new regulations was established at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Health care for people with disabilities has been improved. Formed separate gynecological teams for women with special needs, two in Zagreb and one in Rijeka, Split and Osijek. In the area of professional rehabilitation, employment and work, housing, mobility and accessibility, a Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was established. More than 10 million kunas have been spent in the area of mobility and accessibility housing only in the health system to remove architectural barriers in the health care system. In many cities, architectural barriers have been removed in public places, especially public means of transport. For this purpose, the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity singled out about a million and a half kuna in 2004. Transports for disabled persons have been organised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51061	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteur want it? Yeah. Mr. Marko Turic, chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51062	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy, Health at the 43rd session held on 5 December, discussed a report on the implementation of the national single policy strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, and during 2003 and 2004. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body in accordance with its powers under the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. At the beginning of the debate, the Committee members pointed out that the report was the result of a wide-ranging multi-species material collection and shows the combined work of the ministries on the implementation of activities identified by the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities. The report, as noted, refers to 2003 and 2004, and is under discussion at the end of 2005. As can be seen from the report during the two years mentioned, there has been a certain delay in the implementation of the measures adopted and as a consequence of the modification of the original operators of the activities. In the opinion of the Committee members, the report presents a good overview of the situation from which the national strategy and the measures to be taken in the next period is visible. This is particularly important as the new national strategy for the next period will be launched in early 2006. A series of significant activities undertaken during the reporting period. Increase the number of preventive checks, continuous implementation of preventive programmes in order to promote health, prevent the occurrence of disability and severe damage to the body. Organized education on the specificity of disease and problem solving with working with people with disabilities. A draft Regulation on orthopaedic and other aids has also been drawn up. Cooperation between the public and private sectors has been achieved in a way that the institutions of the welfare system support the start-up activities of cooperatives established by disabled persons. Measures are under way to involve persons with disabilities in the world of work. In accordance with the National Employment Action Plan and the recommendations of the European Employment Strategy and so on. However, in the opinion of the Committee on Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities since its founding in 2002, there are no clear criteria for the allocation of funds which is inadmissible. Although the National Strategy provides for a code of positive practice of standards and criteria to be drawn up by the end of March 2003 for achieving financial support to programmes and projects, the draft code has not yet been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In their discussion, some members of the Committee looked at insufficient care for disabled workers and asked the question of harmonising legislation, legal protection of persons with disabilities and improving their concerns. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: a report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 is accepted during 2003 and 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51063	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. The first is on behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here we have today on the agenda a report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities during 2003 and 2004. It's pretty late to discuss it because here's the end of 2005 and we got it at the end of the year. I think that report should have come a long time ago anyway. However, I also have a lot of objections to this report, not only as a report but also to everything from that strategy that we adopted and implemented. From what the Secretary of State said at the beginning of 12, the measures being fully implemented, 46 in part and in the order he listed it, and 12 of these measures are not implemented at all. Looking at these materials from, let's say, under the areas of action, what first is a family and civil society of 14 measures 4 are implemented partially or almost in no way. Health, sports and recreation of 8 measures again 4 are almost in no way. In the education of 12 measures 4 are also not implemented and so in order not to list, but much of it is carried out or implemented almost insignificantly or does not implement at all, and therefore I would touch certain things that concern, as regards the report itself, and that is that most of it is being carried out on the designed programme or is being produced in progress. Or a task force was founded, so the task force is working on it. Or data collected and processing is ongoing. Most of the conclusions and those in the field of action are reduced to that, and a small number of things have been achieved. As is evident from the report and as we know and in society there are 4 groups of disabled persons in Croatia, which are: mental retardation, deaf, blind and disabled. I would say something, most of it would be devoted to the blind because walking in Zagreb we all see a large number of barriers that represent not only real architectural but barriers so that the blind can engage in normal life and normally walk the city. That's where I'd mention first row traffic lights, these vertical signals. These are, say, various signposts, these are bus stops, these are tram stops where you are, that sign is located at a height that is inappropriate or on a corridor that directly bothers the blind where we know that we, too, can walk in the city very often, that many of us or we stick in that sign or head into a sign because it's inappropriate heights and that's what should be solved in the near future. Then, the crossings themselves over the traffic lights. There are many more traffic lights that are not marked by sound signalling, and I am nowhere to be honest walking in Zagreb saw or any other city saw that there is also a lurking in a walking zebra where disabled people could see where they cross the road. So it should be that slot they feel with their stick and know they're on the zebra. It's about the blind. And now I'd like to go along with this strategy and the executions where it's mostly seen that many things have not been done or have not been done in quality and where it's not really seen who was supposed to do what because most of the things that from one ministry are transferred to another ministry most of the things end up in the Central State Office that should have proposed any changes to the law and didn't suggest it to us. So first of all, I would like to mention equalising the right where, to the extent that social assistance and care in measure 1 has been taken into account, we have said this, legislative and legal protection for the purpose of making the situation more equal and the protection of military and civilian people with disabilities and participants II. World War II, peace-doping military invalids from Porac and civilian disabled people from the Homeland War to reduce differences in total disability rights and the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. It has been said that this will be brought into line by the end of 2004, but until today we know that we have not brought this into line that there are great differences between civil invalids of war and these other disabled wars. I hope the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship... that the government will come out with a bill of law where we will try to even it out and even those rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, there are important things about education and where, for example, from one system, we switch to another system and where, for example, in the education of professionals in social care activities, it is a big problem that most people with disabilities and their families do not know what their rights are and what their opportunities are and therefore simply do not use even those rights that they have and those rights that they should be able to achieve. So the professional training of social care workers should be much better in any case so that they can transfer their skills to both the disabled and their families. Then, the big problem is also with the education-rehabilitation college where we see that all attempts to make them are mostly not fruit-bearing, so let's say the Pedagogue Academy didn't respond at all. So that's where some kind of cooperation was started, which is the same as if it hadn't started. So, when the meeting tried to define certain measures defined by the national strategy, none of this was done and simply the start of cooperation with the school of education-rehabilitation had not started at all and nothing had happened. There's a lot of things that need to be fixed. However, I do not know in which way we now say in this report the report shows the real state of society. However, I believe that what is written here is not a guarantee that these disabled people will at all be treated the way they should be treated in society, because it all turns out that the strategy is going, that one strategy is going through another strategy, and that's not what people with disabilities expect. They expect concrete measures, expect the removal of architectural barriers, expect new training, inclusion in life, expect education, sport, rehabilitation. I don't see it here, and I'm not sure that this strategy that we adopted will be implemented, especially if we know that the strategy is even talking about some seven-year possibility that seven years of working part-time. We know it's inconclusive in private companies and that private companies don't do it anyway without a certain state subsidy. There is no subsidy, and that is the only way to do it in public enterprises and probably only there and it works. We also know that the programmes for the blind, the employment of the blind are almost inconclusive because they are jobs where they were employed, such as the telephone operator, etc., they are no longer in practice or exist. So the number of jobs they should be working on is increasing, and I believe that the government must come up with concrete proposals to help the first companies to hire the disabled, and secondly to help the disabled in their education, education and rehabilitation themselves. HNS will vote for this report first because it comes so late. Because it's part of some kind of strategy and the fact is that everything that's not done is listed. If we vote for this doesn't mean we support what's not done. However, we ask the Government to carry out with concrete actions everything we have set out in these, I don't know, a large number of first places of application, first areas of application, and second measure to make all of this happen from a national strategy and not again after a certain time in a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51065	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51066	Dear Vice President. Representative Kapraljevic has hardened many things that have not been done. So in order not to remain that way, I will only taxively list it from this report, and note that the Committee unanimously accepted this, that there is an increase in the number of preventive checks and continued implementation of preventive programmes, that education on the specificity of the disease, condition and problem-solving of persons with disabilities is being organised, that there is continued harmonisation of the rules with orthopedic and other aids. A draft regulation has been drawn up on this, a proposal for a health care programme for 20054 with proposals to prevent health damage leading to disability. The action on general public information, how to implement the inclusions, etc. is enhanced, etc. I'd say it's true that many things have been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51067	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the club HSLS, LS and DC, Madam Representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Today, of course, we will discuss the report on the implementation of the national strategy. However, this is also a real opportunity to talk about a number of problems faced by disabled people, that is, their loved ones who care about them, and I hope that we will not be cruel with the Rules of Procedure and that we will not be bothered if the discussions go beyond the framework of the strategy itself, but remain in the context of the debate on the rights of disabled persons. I will remind you that in the Republic of Croatia there are 430 thousand people with disabilities or 10% of the population. If we add up to this the members of their families associated with caring for these disabled ones, then we will come up with a triple number. I will also remind you that there were 41 thousand 289 persons in the social care system in 2000. 59 thousand 669 people talking about the upward trend and demanding a serious and designed policy of taking care of them. The national strategy was adopted in 2003 with the aim of establishing a single policy for people with disabilities regardless of time, species, environment and disability. It would be a priority to ensure and promote the rights of persons with disabilities co-ordinated by the actions of the state institutions, to ensure the full and active participation of disabled persons in the life of the community, to sensitise society to their problems. These are certainly priorities that are long-term and which will need to be worked on and I believe that this report gives a good overview of the achievements in the area numbered by carriers and spent resources, but also of the reasons why certain programmes are not implemented and I think that this report must be recognised. We are ahead of us to redefine our policy towards disabled persons who, among other things, result in full membership in the European Union because the Union has given its members guidance on the creation of a single policy in the area of respect for the fundamental human rights of disabled persons. Thanks to this strategy, a number of pilot-adjusted environments are being implemented, which certainly give certain positive results, and I will mention pilot projects of transport of children with greater developmental difficulties, low-floor trams, buses carried out in the City of Zagreb, extended stay can be said in the town of Bjelovar which comes from the approval of persons used for these projects. These are therefore a number of measures that are yet to be implemented. But I'll also mention the barriers that are being removed at an insufficient rate. It seems to me that in most cities it has come to the removal of barriers that prevent the communication of disabled persons, that this job is slow, that it is financed almost and exclusively by local self-government, often with the help of sponsors, but I will remind you or tell you which are just some of the institutions that you cannot approach in the town of Bjelovar and are not related to the city. That's what I mean by an example that applies to other cities. For example, a disabled person with wheelchairs can't get into the police department, can't enter the welfare center, and then the employees of these institutions come down and help, talk about Bjelovar, help disabled people. Of course it's worth the treatment of disabled people, but we believe that these ministries from the state budget would have to find funds. This cannot be expected from them in certain cities or in the counties but in the ministries to remove such barriers and these should be priorities. The problem, of course, is with schools, hospitals, hospitals, and it would be interesting to see exactly how many primary and secondary schools are adapted to people moving in a wheelchair, how many hospitals, how many hospitals, because of this, of course, reduces the dependence of people with disabilities on family members and it is more dignified life and society must ensure that people with disabilities are more independent with approximately equal opportunities in life that have physically healthy persons. I'm also going to say something that's certainly not well solved, and we're going to have a chance to fix it very soon. It may seem marginal, but it's not. It can look like that to us healthy people. They're the right to use the parking lot for disabled people. On behalf of the club, i.e. representatives of HSLS and LS, I have made a proposal to amend the Road Safety Act to allow the use of specially marked parking spaces for other categories of disabled persons, for the blind persons whom someone else is leading, then for kidney patients with 100% organ damage, so those who go from haemodialysis. It's a few thousand people, and I really ask my colleagues and colleagues when they get information about how much a person is, so they don't think all of our parking lots will be jammed. These are numbers that refer to all of Croatia. I must express my satisfaction with the fact that this bill has been passed by the government's expert group and I hope that by the end of the year or the beginning of next year we will have it on the benches. Following this proposal, the parents of children or persons with mental retardation who are asking to be included in the law, since they are children or persons who are not aware of their condition, are unable to predict the consequences of their own proceedings, require the full - time assistance of their parents, or guardians. Parents drive daily to institutions for education and education, to institutions for rehabilitation and care, and almost only a mother or only a father, so help is needed both, and often grandmothers and brothers and sisters can’t do all these jobs. This is indeed the help we can provide here by accepting only one more amendment to the future law. So I'm asking for that support, too. Parking, of course, isn't the only problem. Parents warn of the frequent occurrence that, through social care, children with special needs not to be paid for their retirement and the necessary contribution, and this really needs to be examined and checked and brought about by improvement and new measures. The request of the Association of Body Disabilities to which the regulation of payment of tolls for their vehicle van, VAT for cars and excise duties for disabled persons is then not resolved. This is still in the area of initiative as well as the use of highways. I really don't think that's the big cost of burdening the state budget, but I don't want to be demagogue, so let's go cut the team or the service because it's the easiest thing to say, but we need to see where it comes from. I'm sure they're acceptable. It is also a decision to give rehabilitation to disabled people in various rehabilitation centres. However, I believe that a person with disabilities should decide where the rehabilitation will be carried out, that his word is important. It is necessary to avoid ghettoisation, the concentration of people with disabilities in special hospitals, because it is certainly against the dignity of persons, and I don't know that it is professionally harmful. At least it's done, but of course you can't answer those questions in the field of employment of disabled people and it's completely incomprehensible to your colleagues, that he didn't revive the foundation for professional rehabilitation, so the employment of people with disabilities. The reasons must not be administrative. It is common that employers are not inclined to hire disabled persons and when there are no objective reasons for or hire them, they are later fired to obtain certain state funding and this type of support. I must note that legislation through which certain rights are provided to individual and disabled persons on the basis of reductions in these rights contributes and reduces the quality of life of persons with disabilities. We're certainly all aware of that, it's mathematically logical. Therefore, consideration should be given to the height of the existing disability allowance as well as the possibility of equating existing amounts to that effect. The question of users, aid and care benefits should also be discussed because the current solution, as disabled people claim, is not fair. Before I say the final position on this report, I'm going to say three elements that need to be fixed. I believe that we can reach a consensus around them, and the report barely touched it, which is the state of the companies that employ the disabled. I know it's a second resort, that we need to talk about it in the Ministry of Economy. I'll only remind you of the fate of such a company. It is the "Suvenir Sirac" that so far all three governments have walked through different laws, and their status is still unclear today. Also the facilities of hospitals and hospitals. There are statistics on how many women in the wheelchair managed to get to the gynecologist. So, basic medical examinations. I also have to warn you of something you must know, but in the law and in the strategy, it can be specially installed and elaborated. It's helping parents with mentally damaged children. Namely, the work of patronage sisters has not been organized until the school's departure, and during that period until the 7th year, that is, by the time the child goes to school, it is very necessary that the parent accepts this condition, to cope with it, and to know what he can do to help his child and himself. So with right and systematic help, often it only starts when a child starts first class. We'll, I can say on behalf of the club, accept this report. Surely there are trends in improvement, and everything we warn about I hope that the representatives of the government will seriously consider and try to work out new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51069	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51070	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected secretary of state, respected senior advisors at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 during 2003 and 2004 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts. We are all members of a large human family so that this family can live normally is required to protect each member by a legal system that defines each of us rights, freedom, obligations and responsibilities. The assumption of achieving all rights, freedom, obligations and responsibilities is primarily business capacity. Because only then can I take actions and actions for my own sake and take responsibility for my actions. And what about when it comes to a person with disabilities? We can replace the word disability that comes from Latin with our version weak or powerless. A person with disabilities according to the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is unable to provide fully or partly normal, individual and social life, either due to birth or acquired damage, whether it is physical damage, hearing or speech damage, or one in another and whether it is mental retardation. In life and in practice, many things are not easy, and in these cases the most common are multiple damages. The Government of the Republic of Croatia stands for the social state and state of social justice in all its segments where it is, where it is primarily an individual, especially an individual with signs of weakness and impotence. And it is these individuals that the government has dedicated the National Strategy for a Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities for the period 2003 to 2006, meaning for a period of 3 years. Today we have before us the implementing measures of this strategy, but how to read the plotted programmes are implemented continuously, which is very important and commendable because the problem itself requires this, and that is the only way to solve it. The problem is both inter-resorious and multi-disciplinary and all the entities as well as the measures taken are present in this comprehensive report. I note, they're taking over because it's a continuous program. These entities are the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, not only as a forward ministry but also as a co-ordinator of the implementation of measures of the National Strategy, a single policy for people with disabilities, and as such implements a series of activities. Thus, it developed professional bases and positions and rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, comparatively analysed Croatian legislation with EU legislation. It implements the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the local community, in accordance with both the opportunities of people with disabilities and local community offers. For those who are more difficult to perform, and for those with the most difficult type and the most difficult degree of disability, the possibility is given through the personal assistant institute. It also provides psychosocial support for children who care for their parents with disabilities. This ministry also informs people with disabilities about the rights and opportunities to exercise these rights as well as public sensitisation for them. The foundation of counselling centres for children, youth, marriage, and family who are preceding future family centers. These programmes and implementation measures are complemented by the Ministry of Health and Social Care by providing institutional care, providing and non-institutional forms of care as well as in the form of living rooms, half-days, assistance and care in the house, independent housing and other forms. This ministry also pays great attention to the programme of family care and to this end develops all forms of patronage and help the family who takes care of the person with disabilities and thus prevents the worst for the user, and for society the most expensive form of care, which is the institutional one. Thus, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, knowingly all the negativeities of institutional care, strongly promotes deinstitutionalisation programmes. As a responsible ministry, it is also aware of the importance of preventive measures and programmes for the purpose of protecting and preserving health and has paid great attention to the early diagnosis of neuro-developmental deviations in children and secondary prevention of cerebral damage. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare also encourage and finance associations of persons with disabilities and associations acting programically in favour of persons with disabilities, encourage and finance civil service of the military period to the benefit of this population and encourage and encourage both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to amend the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and their funding to take greater responsibility for each member of their community. As we see from the report, professional services and education-rehabilitation colleges as well as the Academy of Development Rehabilitation and the entire programme have been used significantly and in this entire programme, both the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because every person regardless of the degree of disability has the right to education as well as to sport whether they are used to preserve his health or to prevent further deterioration of health. Here we need to worry about the current situation in these institutions dealing with education and education, which stem from the analysis carried out by this ministry, measures taken by the ministry in cooperation with other entities are encouraging. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship through the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the Croatian Employment Institute introduces this population into the world of work and entrepreneurship and the results of these measures are visible. We in Croatia cannot say to the democratic community that they are satisfactory for now, but we will do everything to make it so. The Ministry of Culture as well as that of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport and Development, all with the same task in their field of action, should do everything possible to make all facilities available to all persons with disabilities in particular. As we can see from their report, the current situation in their area requires significant interventions as they do systematically, and all for the benefit of this population. The measures of the Croatian Social Insurance Institute as well as the measures of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are a significant step in this area, and I would like to draw close to the conclusion and say that the Croatian Democratic Community club commends this approach to the problems of persons with disabilities who are both interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary. The HDZ Club strongly supports children's rights programmes for family growth, prevention programmes, institutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation programmes and education programmes as well as programmes for the introduction into the world of work and entrepreneurship of this population. We are aware that this report has its shortcomings, too, my God, it is always said that a good horse is one hundred and one flaw, and one bad is not good. Thanks to all the ministries that have participated this report, mainly the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity, as well as the RES, as well as the coordinator. How much effort it took to look at the problem of people with disabilities from all these sides and to gather the activities and measures of all the subjects dealing with this problem and this material has been offered to us today on an insight into the analysis is an excellent basis that will be able to further improve. The very view of the review of the implementation of the measures and the funds spent suggests that it is a demanding programme consisting of 70 measures of which 12 were realised, 46 are under way of realization, 12 are not realised for now, and all this was for 2003 and 2004 a billion 174 million 512 thousand 351 kuna and 80 Lips and the HDZ Club respects both effort and results and accepts this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51071	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51072	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Now, I'd like to share my predecessors' optimism with Mrs. Chickesh and watch the sunny side of the street, but unfortunately, I'm always getting signals from the less sunny side of the street. So, I would like to see not so much cry at the convention on anti-walking mines, but talk to people who, for example, have lost their limbs, and also run out of bread. I wish I could talk to a young 21-year-old man whose mother died in Sisak during the Homeland War, and after the war he suffered from mines and lost also his lower limbs and unfortunately lives at the level of every social minimum. So, I would like to open up some other topics, not because I am a person who does not have enough optimism in me but simply live life with people who do not have something on hand, and it seems to me to be a society, and according to this report, a National Strategy that was otherwise declared one of the best documents of the Council of Europe in 2003. But let's start over. It is difficult to talk about one document declared by the Council of Europe as one of the best European countries' documents on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. This happened in Malaysia at the Council of Ministers in 2003. I have talked from this place many times about the National Strategy for a Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 and in its non-implementation. To persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, it has been a foothold in seeking and achieving its law of rights acquired. Croatia is a country of all its citizens and these 10%, which includes the National Strategy, but does the Republic of Croatia treat all its citizens equally, do you lose your dignity because you are simply different because you don't see well, because you don't walk, you don't hear because you have intellectual difficulties? It's just that the state shuts you down. Only thanks to the tenacity of parents and the very people with disabilities rarely fight for their rights. What kind of national strategy should be written that persons with a fixed or bed-bound disability should be entitled to medical care in the house or if they have the right to organise a system of control to provide care and help in the house do their job, to reduce the number of patients to nurses, and not to place 20 patients in a single day on the move from the Pag Bridge to Zadar? What national strategy should exist where all children with developmental difficulties no matter how much they write in all laws relating to the benefit of people with disabilities should be covered by preschool and school education regardless of the place of residence? It is a sad fact that our children are literally torn from their families and placed in institutions because they do not have a suitable school in their environment and it may be just a few steps, a few inches narrow the door and unfortunately the well-willed director or director of the same school. What kind of national strategy should this be to put people who suffer from muscle dystrophy on the list of medical aid respirator rather than literally choke and die just because someone has overlooked that one of the consequences of muscle dystrophy are also respiratory problems. What a national strategy this should exist to allow the blind and deaf to be given information in an accessible form and a state that will not ignore their needs. I could give a few thousand examples and explain each of them as unique and special because these are exactly the kind of people that are unique and special. What a system of supervision and accountability should be introduced to protect and enable the implementation of a national strategy. According to the latest census in the Republic of Croatia, 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities live. Of which 4% died in traffic accidents, 10% in the Homeland War, 24% at work, 8% were born with disability. In a wheelchair, there's 7 thousand 201 people moving. The blind in Croatia are about 5,000 people with intellectual damage of about 120 thousand. But the saddest number is 12 thousand 448 permanently fixed persons tied to the bed. The age structure of people with disabilities is next. By the age of 14, there are 6 thousand 737 children with developmental difficulties, and that is exactly the category for which the most to fight for. Between the ages of 15 and 24 there are 9000 692 people. From 25 to 44 years of life, 78 thousand 137 people. From 45 to 64, 185 thousand 428 people. And from 65 years of life to more than 148 thousand 170 people. And in a thousand, 257 people are unknown causes of disability. It's not about any imaginary category, it's about the people around you, their violated dignity, their humiliating treatment. For which reasons civil people with disabilities are not allowed to import cars free of VAT. That's my question to you, too. Working in the first working group to adopt a national strategy, I was happy that a document was finally being adopted that would bind ministries in certain areas and combine the work of these ministries, set measures within the deadlines set. As I said at the outset, it is one of the best documents declared by the Council of Europe, but unfortunately in its implementation we have not done it very well. First of all, we get the first report after two years of adoption. The reconstruction of the ministries has lost jurisdiction and some have simply disobeyed the implementation of measures and deadlines, under the exception of the ministry. When this Parliament adopted a national strategy, it did not accept it for the sake of the beauty of the documents, but for its real conduct. Unfortunately, it was too difficult a task for individual ministries. I'd like to start with the measures now. It seems to me that the report says that the measures were taken. Measure ten, right to care in the family. The Patronage was to be completed by the end of 2003. The social care law does not prescribe the right to care in the family i.e. Patronage for insufficient financial resources to be provided in the state budget. Independently, it is stated that this form of support is being implemented as part of individual homes of social care for people with disabilities. It is also necessary to provide for the means to achieve this right. Measure eleven amendments and additions to the Regulation on the right to leave until the seventh year of the child's life and the right to work with half full-time because of him and the child with severe developmental disturbances in relation to the expansion of the circle of users. It is said that the measures have been realised, however, many citizens who point to the sensitivity of the situation in which about 4,000 beneficiaries of this right and whose welfare centres do not pay contributions to half the salary they receive. Taxes are charged on the entire salary even though half of the tax code is not subject to tax as social care compensation. If it wasn't so sad, it'd be funny and it'd be worth saying, "Godfather brought, godfather drank.". The area of health, sport and recreation, measure seven, programmes for the inclusion of children and youth with development difficulties in extracurricular sports and other activities by the end of 2003. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports conducted a survey in all institutions dealing with the education and education of children with developmental difficulties. The survey showed that no institution for education and education of children and youth with developmental difficulties has the right conditions for working with this population and all due to lack of financial resources. It is not clear whether the Commission for extracurricular sports activities for children and youth with development difficulties has developed a programme and pilot projects for extracurricular and sports activities. This is before it is stated that no financial resources were spent during 2004. Measure eight, ensuring the availability of school spaces for extracurricular sports activities of young people and children with developmental difficulties. The measure was not implemented because no financial resources were provided for these purposes in the 2004 state budget. What is planned to be done to implement this measure. Area of action, education, measure one. By the end of March 2003, a new pedagogical standard for preschool education was submitted to work for the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and an office opinion is expected by 8 April 2005. It is also said that a pedagogical standard has been adopted for primary and secondary education, but I have different information. Measure two, a study on the reasons for the failure of secondary education to be completed by the end of 2004. All it states is that data are collected on leaving primary and secondary schools and data processing is ongoing. This measure has been completely neglected, as it is obvious that research analysis was to be carried out in order to determine the state of play in the absence of secondary education and to establish professional bases as a starting point for planning and preparing future activities. And I'll tell you why kids leave primary and secondary schools. Since after the rehabilitation is completed, they lose all rights and are included in, put on the waiting list for work they lose all rights and receive a fee of 200 kuna for the unemployed. This way, when they gain the status of a person who can receive a personal disability, they get it in the amount of thousands and 100 kunas. Well, that's the only reason, and I don't think it's too much wisdom to investigate this measure. Measure three, a professional basis for the adoption of curricula and programmes by the end of 2004. Obviously, the involvement of the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation in the implementation of this measure despite the lack of support from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports which is not considered competent or considered to be the expert council of the faculty to decide on professional and teaching issues. However, it is noted that both the Senate and the National High Education Council are involved in the process of adopting curricula and programmes in such a way as to give consent to colleges for the implementation of the proposed programmes. It is necessary to support the initiative to focus the attention of the National Council reviewer on the inclusion of educational-rehabilitation content in programmes that will enable teachers to work on children with developmental difficulties. Measure five, child tracking system with developmental difficulties. The measure was to be completed by the end of 2003. Data on children with developmental difficulties in primary and secondary schools are reported to have been collected and data for this school year are processed. It is also said that data were collected on risk groups to assess the professional, development service of the school. On the other hand, it is stated that the data recording model is still being developed as if when the Regulation on the procedure for determining the mental state of children who have identified the elements for the monitoring of individual difficulties in the development of children enrolled in primary school or where certain developmental difficulties would be observed during schooling. It is obvious that the Regulation on the training of children with developmental difficulties has not yet been developed, so it is necessary to explain what, by achieving this measure, in view of the contradiction in the argument, and given the need to be realised in 2003. I could still count a lot. NO, I can see my time is running out. I'd like answers as to how it's possible for one ministry to transfer its action to another, to another ministry and not respond to anyone? I'm also interested in what about the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and hiring people with disabilities? A few days ago, a tender was launched, but the competition will not be possible in this year. So it takes 30 days to report to the competition. So, in the end, I'm interested in responsibility. So who will be responsible for not implementing these measures, regardless of what we can in, in one way appreciate that there has been a reconstruction of the ministries, however the responsibility of the government remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51073	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today and at the end of 2005, we are discussing a report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 for two years. It's 2003 and 2004. Since there is no explanation, we do not know why we did not consider and discuss the report for 2003, and we do not know why we are discussing what was done in the previous two years until the end of next year. Whether it is an indication of the government's relationship to the disability problem and to the disabled in the Republic of Croatia. The Association of Persons with Disabilities voices that this is also a reflection of the state's concern for this part of the citizens. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia obliges the State as a fundamental act in Article 57 to give special care to the protection of disabled persons and their inclusion in social life. Following the constitutional provision in 2003, the National Strategy for a Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities who prescribe measures, deadlines and task holders of certain activities aimed at improving the status of persons with disabilities was adopted. From the table display that we have been presented, it is evident that out of the 70 measures prescribed, 12 in two years has been implemented, 46 in progress, and 12 is unrealised. This is a rough display that has an ambition to draw a conclusion that is the opposite of the conclusion that we will come to by carefully reading the reasons for each measure. After reading, we will agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, in the light of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, literally said that, with regard to improving the status of persons with disabilities in 2003 and 2004 of the lost year. In 2003, the strategy was adopted, and in 2004 it passed in disseminating jurisdiction between individual ministries. This is particularly visible in the field of action entitled "professional rehabilitation, employment and work." This area of action includes four measures: a plan to develop professional rehabilitation, employment and work with people with disabilities, the application of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities, 3. Ensuring resources for the most favourable conditions of self-employment lending of disabled persons and 4. encouraging measures for disabled persons as part of measures and activities to promote a small economy. We believe that this particular area of action requires special attention. Negative economic movements over the last 15 years have resulted in a decline in the employer's interest in professional rehabilitation, employment and work of disabled people. Those are the first ones to lose their jobs, and the unemployed don't seem to have a chance of getting a job. Professional rehabilitation, employment and work is of particular interest to every society. It is through the care of disabled people that the social sensitivity and humanity of society are assessed. In late 2002, this Parliament passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation. The law is motivated by the desire to create legal frameworks for the active inclusion of persons with disabilities in the world of work. When data are collected from the Employment Service, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the pension system records, we will find that 7.4% of working-age residents are excluded from the world of work due to disability. After privatising new employers, such workers were not a working-attractive population. As a technological surplus, they were mass fired. They were not trained to work in accordance with the remaining health skills but found refuge in the retirement and realization of reduced disability pensions. As social peace was bought through the pension system very quickly, there was almost equal number of pensioners and the number of pensioners. Due to the insufferability of morals, pension reform had to take place, but in the shadow of the pension reform, changes in the system and disability insurance were carried out, and this was based solely on the projection of possible savings by abolishing certain rights or by transposing previous rights to new reduced rights. The process completely disregards the issue of the prevention of disability, employment of disabled workers and the consideration of other obligations to them arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the conventions which are binding for Croatia. Failure to care for people with disabilities has led to partial social-based legal solutions instead of creating a disability insurance system with the aim of taking over social, professional and economic roles in relation to their remaining health skills. It is recalled that the application of the Pension Insurance Act from 1.1.1999 should be initiated by law on pension and disability insurance on the basis of the remaining work capacity. The right to deploy, i.e. to work on other relevant jobs, shall be abolished. The right to work with reduced working hours, the right to requalification or qualification and the right to an appropriate amount of salary compensation shall be abolished. All these rights are translated by Day 1. 1. In 1999, under official duty on disability pension due to professional incompetence to work. Trying to correct the unfair relationship of this first HDZ government towards disabled workers, the coalition government proposed, and the parliament passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The law has not been implemented in practice. According to reason, no implementing acts have been adopted, and they have not been adopted due to the demarcation of jurisdiction between individual ministries from 2003 to today. The demarcation takes too long, and the attempt to solve this problem remains on hold. According to this report, one of the measures of the National Strategy is the application of the law. The measure says, quotes: "The Ministry of Health and Social Care will persist in the application of laws that allow people with disabilities to undergo professional rehabilitation, employment and open labour market work towards individual abilities, opportunities and needs, and only exceptionally under special conditions". Obligations to implement the Ministry of Health have been taken over by the Ministry of Economy. It seems, of all things, that the Ministry of Economy has proposed only amendments and additions to laws which have adopted a deinstitutional approach to care for persons with disabilities and to avoid employment only in protective workshops. It's a good thing the law created legal assumptions for employment under general conditions, but apparently that's all that's left is a dead letter on paper and a dead letter on the law. The report does not tell us how busy such persons are, and we do not know how effective this measure is. When we reminded our earlier discussions that in the 1980s in Croatia there were 39 companies that hired 7,000 workers of which more than 50% were disabled, we were told that it was an integral part of the surviving system we would not return to. The goal is to hire a disabled person in all companies of capital. As it seems, it will remain only a goal for a long, long time. In relation to people with disabilities, the country also speaks about the implementation of the 2005 budget. Last year, too little has been invested in improving the situation of disabled people. In the first six months of this year, too. Nothing has been invested for the Rehabilitation Fund since the planned 20 million, and the financing and co-financing of the professional rehabilitation and employment of 17 million has not been invested. It's similar in other items. No or very symbolic means between the measures of the National Strategy and the financing of the Association of Persons with Disabilities under which the obligation of units of local self-government to co-finance associations is required. This measure has not been implemented, and it is said for a reason that the financing system does not allow this, and the Ministry of Finance proposes that the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government from their budgets allocate funding. Most of the municipalities and cities are unable to do so. Their budgets are too poor. Contrary to this measure that cannot be realised, there are measures that are not realised without justifiable reasons. For example, we do not have a code of positive practice of standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations. We don't know how to split that money. The Central State Office didn't make it. If there is no code, the question shall be raised as to how and on what basis financial support is made available. I hope not by sympathy. Looks like the foundation's missing. The report shows that the National Strategy does not implement the necessary dynamics, that the majority of the measures are only at the start of implementation and that start takes too long and there are no visible, significant shifts in improving the situation of disabled people. That was not the goal of the strategy. However, the report as it is written actually contains data from what has been done and I'm afraid there's nothing we can do about it. However, the data itself and their acceptance of themselves will not do anything for ourselves, but these data suggest that we should draw conclusions, conclusions that would be in the interest of persons with disabilities and in the function of improving their status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51075	Thank you very much. At 10.45, it was time to sign up for ten minutes. We have three corrections. First is Mrs Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51076	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Lalić, it is not true that in 2004, the year was ruined for people with disabilities. For example, on 3 December 2004, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities was marked in Vukovar. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity with representatives of 9 Croatian cities Beli Manastir, Belisce, Donji Miholjac, Đurđevac, Novska, Slatina, Valpovo, Virovitica, Vukovar signed cooperation agreements on projects to resolve accessibility of persons with disabilities for whose implementation in 2004 the ministry singled out 1,434,958.98 kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51077	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On this occasion, Article 209(2), which states that the representative in his speech must limit the correction otherwise, will be taken away from him by the chairman. In this case, Mrs. Advocacy was correcting my exact quote because I quoted the Government of the Republic of Croatia as being given in an explanation. Unfortunately, materials have to be read. It's not my fault if someone doesn't read it and then corrects the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51079	Thank you. It's common to use the correction, unfortunately, but Mrs. Zdenka had some data. No, I can't judge credibility, but she was correcting something. You were making something right. It's hard to track and I can't compare any data, so I can't judge what the data is. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague stated in her presentation that 21,482,000 were foreseen in the 2004 Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund but incorrectly said nothing was used. The report makes it clear that nine million kunas have been spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51081	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, counterpart Lalic incorrectly stated, I think this time there will be no injury to Business that local self-government does not stand out for associations, does not support associations. That's not true. Local self-government and most local self-government support different associations of disabled people, disabled victims and pensioners safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51083	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51084	Here, Mr. Vice President, Article 209 again says it must be limited to correction. Otherwise, the president will take away his word. What I said was that the local self-government investment measure was not carried out, not my words again, but your colleague's in the report. Please read the report when you are having an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51085	Mrs. Lalić, you can make an all-day correction, i.e. a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because here the Rules of Procedure are systematically injured. Well, it seems to me, in part, that by raising your injuries to the Rules of Procedure as well. Let's move on. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51086	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm going to use this debate to introduce you to two memos that came to our club, probably other clubs. This is a letter from the Croatian Association of Disabled War Associations, the work of pardon and the Union of Military Disabilities members of the NOR County of Dubrovnik-Neretljan. And here the Croatian Association of Disabilities Association says literally: "We address you as a roof organisation of disabled work that brings together 35 basic associations with more than 17 thousand active members, and related to the permanent and unrelenting respect and ignoring of disabled workers and their associations, the abolition of their rights and the lack of concern of society for people who are a large part of the life span working and clearly building Croatia. Namely, the Croatian Parliament... and it is now safe and important "...at its 11th session held on 19 November 2004, it reached a conclusion, item 1 of the same, which did not accept the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment and exercise of the rights of disabled workers. I guess as a compensation, that conclusion contains point 2 which is obliged by the Government to draw up a full analysis of the material position of work as soon as possible. Point 3 of which is obliged by the Government to adopt, as soon as possible, sublegal acts implementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities and to submit a report on the implementation of the law.". So, as they have been saying since the adoption, this conclusion has been over a year, and according to their knowledge and information, there is no positive movement to do anything about it and do it to us as well as to those who represent, among other things, more than 240 thousand people with disabilities to do something to repair their material position without delay. Now they're delivering us certain tables, etc. Let's see what it looks like. And what is also quite interesting, among other things, are called to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, on increasing the pensions of people with disabilities who participated in the Homeland War. But what's going on here with this Law on the Rights of the Croatian Attorney of the Homeland War and members of their families. Be careful, the right to increase disability pensions, depending on their participation in the Homeland War, is reserved for those who went into retirement after the law went into effect. Therefore, everyone else does not have the right to increase pensions, although the basis for obtaining this right should be participation in the Homeland War, not the time when someone submitted a request to go to a disability pension. That's clearly not fair. As it is not also fair that those defenders who retired by 31.12.2004 cannot, or belong to them, anything based on the praise of a worthy right to have a minimum pension of 45% of the average right. This right, retirement, can only be achieved by those who went into that pension after 1.1.2005, which is one rough one, I would say the degradation of values that one and the other advocated that in the war we will all be the same when that war is over afterwards. Unfortunately, this seems to be a dissent that's inadmissible. Now I'm just going to say what these disability pensions and average monthly pensions look like. Of the 234 thousand 236, watch out, disabled pensioners, disability pensions due to general incompetence to work receive 177,000 total values reduced by tax and taxes of a thousand 791 kuna. The disability pension due to professional inability to work receives 47 thousand 492 people and this average pension amounts to a thousand 355 kuna. The disability pension due to the professional incompetence for work paid to the insurance undertaking during employment, i.e. to carry out an independent activity receives 2 thousand 639 persons and amounts to 468 kuna. The disability pension due to the professional incompetence for work paid to an insurance undertaking during employment, i.e. the performance of an independent activity receives 56 of them and amounts to 806 kuna. The disability pension due to the professional inability to work caused by work injury or professional illness, the pension is received by 165 persons, amounting to 903 kuna. A disabled pension to the previous user is entitled to deploy, i.e. second job employment at the time of employment receives 6 thousand 738 persons and the average pension is 264 kuna. So, in total, it's certainly huge, under quotes, "the burden" for society as a whole. 234 thousand 236 people with disabilities are retired through the state budget. The average pension when we sort of sum it up is a thousand 643 kunas. In their retirement pensions, 558 thousand receive a pension of, average, we always speak on average, 2 thousand 17, disability said 234 thousand is a thousand 611 kuna. The family pension receives 229 thousand and the average pension is a thousand 567 kuna. In the Croatian Army, about 11 thousand 236 people receive that pension at an average of 2 thousand 840 kuna. When we look at an old, disabled, family together, otherwise their parents are somewhere on average 4000 kuna. And in the case of Croatian defenders 38 thousand 175 receives an average pension in total, according to all categories 5 thousand 503 kuna. I want to take this opportunity to express one protest and because of these opportunities which today rule in the Valovinas down in Pula, where 115 people of which 47 children are placed in bungalows despite promises at that time by the competent minister that these people will clearly solve their housing problem. It's a huge problem. They say, well, I read it yesterday or today, that the only mistake they made was not breaking into some apartments. Of course it's not a mistake, it would be a mistake if they broke in because without a pardon, they should be thrown out of an illegally possessed apartment. However, this problem is serious, this problem will likely be eroded, even because of the fact that they are somehow starting to teach lessons because of nationality, and that certainly is not good. However, it is good to update the problem and start solving it, because these people deserve it. But when I say there's no one there to teach the lessons of nationality, then I don't think the Poofs are allowed to send them from where they came from, nor are they allowed to send the Lungs back to where some of them came from. The second letter I wish to make as I have announced, read, is the letter from the Union of Military Disabilities, members of the National Liberation War of the County of Dubrovnik-Neretlian. They asked me to do it during the budget, but now it's a debate on disabled people, so I think it's far and more appropriate. And here they literally point out whether and in what amount the financial resources in the budget are secured, the budget is intended to increase the disabled, the users of the NOR anti-fascist fight. They further state that for five years the disabled have not been increased by a single kuna, for example today. the NOR military disability with 100% incompetence has monthly income of all 2.224.00 kuna, lower categories clearly fall even more steeply, which is certainly civilizedly embarrassing, etc. We're all at the end of our lives, we're over 80 years old and our voice is cryin' out in the desert. We know antifascism serves the authorities only for daily political use, but let's release these political messages now. But why did I read that request? Because all wartime military people, it doesn't matter if the People's Liberation War, whether the Homeland War, should have the same pension based on clear disability. We should have the same disability rights, because I keep pointing out that the hand of a young man who was lost in Vukovar is as valuable as the hand of a Partisan who lost his hand around Buzet, Pula or I don't know where and that dyssence of this country has been since 91, and that's what one dares to say, civilization shame. To conclude, we will solve all problems with what the MPs before me have said, from these architectural to these pension problems. Of course we won't. We are one small, let's admit it to ourselves, a beautiful country, but a poor country. Of course, new buildings shouldn't get any useful permits without adapting to the disabled. This would be a minimum, especially if it is public buildings intended for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia or that city or that county. But the problem with the problems with being disabled is that they're, they're disabled when disabled people are disabled and pensions. Surely this country will not solve this problem for many years. I'm afraid that this problem can further sharpen. It's been 70 percent of our budget goes for pensions, goes for health care, goes for the social and clear defenders. I repeat once again, 70% of the state budget of nearly 106 billion kuna goes to those four categories, so for development it remains somewhere around 15 billion kunas held by ministers, i.e. the government plus there has to add some 3 billion kunas that are being wasteing to some 560th, which is the regional unit that local self-government has to do. For the end, the problem is, like I said, disability, retirement, but the biggest problem is right now when it comes to people with disabilities, employment. There's no room in this country for healthy and young people. In a country where 95% of jobs are opened for a certain period of time by means of working contracts, and where there will then be jobs for people with disabilities. Therefore, the state must not only free the employer from giving for the disabled but must reward the employer to hire the disabled. Why? Because instead of the state, that employer takes care of the social policy of the state itself. That's the point. As it is not important whether someone is asking citizens in Croatia to come work in Australia, as Kovacevic points out, but why the opportunities in Croatia are so ungrateful that thousands of young people want to resolve their existence in Australia. That's the point. Croatia has no residents. We'll be in a situation maybe in five, seven or eight years that we'll be looking for labour, but until then, gentlemen must survive. So this job, this concern for people with disabilities is a permanent obligation for Croatian society. Mrs. Škulić mentioned acquired rights. I was talking about a category of Croatian citizens who were seized under allegations of rights acquired. One category of Croatian citizens are defenders, are properly evaluated although I am sure that no one in this country who is healthy would be replaced for their unfortunate situation. That's true, and that's why these people need to be given everything they can from the state budget. Unfortunately, many others in this country have not been seen as defenders, yet they are Croatian citizens and it hurts. Why? Because they're not politically organized, because these people don't have their promoters either in government or in these benches, because people would say poverty is both heavy and disabled to God, before Christmas, and here today at St. Nicholas, but I'm afraid that their boots, the boots won't get caught. What's to do? So economic stabilisation of the country, but a country where one worker comes to a pensioner, that is almost illusory and I am so afraid that the opportunities in this country are when people are disabled, and other social categories will not change significantly in the next 2006 and 2008 as well. It's our destiny and we can't get away from it. The question is whether or not we'll admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51087	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51088	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations about the rights of Croatian wartime disabled men who said that under the hardworking Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, pensions were increased to Croatian wartime disabled. No, they're down. The incorrect fact about 45% of the average salary is also realised at the moment by only 300 Croatian defenders, not Croatian wartime wartime disabled, and only those who have earned the right to full age pension. If their full retirement is lower than 45%, and that's about $1.800,00, then he gets that difference. And regarding the case of a self-inhabited immigration agent in Australia, we asked that question for two reasons. First, to prevent the new fraud of Croatian citizens and secondly, to indicate what a difficult social situation is in the region of Dalmatia and elsewhere, when people are willing to believe in something that is unrealistic. And I'm asking Mr. Vice President to really tell us when we're gonna get full information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51089	You've extended the correction of an incorrect quote to something that... We have further, the last representative of the PGS Club, the SBHS of the IMF, Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51090	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. Here's to letting me look back on behalf of our club, so these materials we've got. So for starters, let me make our point that we're going to be aware of this material of ours. This strategy, therefore, the materials we have received are technically, transparent, right. But what we are particularly concerned about, and what we warn about is that a large number of the measures envisaged are either ongoing or not implemented. And that's especially not good with those most important elements that make these materials there. We primarily think about education where only one of the 12 envisaged measures is implemented. The most important thing, we could say, is that the part relating to professional rehabilitation and employment of the 4 planned measures has not been implemented until the end of any of them. As far as coordination is concerned, therefore, only one of the 10 measures has been implemented. As regards the 5-measure pension system, only one has been implemented. So there's a very small number in these two, three-year measures that have been fully implemented. In fact, on this basis, we can conclude that the strategy itself is very little in operation and that there is still a lot of work left to do, therefore, that it is functioning in its full scope, and that we should certainly do it as soon as possible. We therefore believe that Croatia must become a society of equal opportunities without discrimination, without discrimination against the healthy, the sick and the disabled. Unfortunately, this discrimination exists in our society, but unfortunately there is discrimination within that population, within the disabled. So some people with disabilities who have the same damage to the advantage over those who, therefore, have the same damage, but this damage is therefore caused by various diseases or injuries. I think we all need to get more serious about this problem together, so we can get involved. Here, now it's been the same disability day, and for us, it was a few days ago. Again, we have witnessed, therefore, that, among others, politicians are taking pictures together with the disabled, sending a message that they are taking great care of them. And unfortunately, the information about how we take care of them is precisely this strategy, therefore, and a work plan to help disabled people. So I wouldn't be surprised if the situation were repeated several weeks or months ago, so when the Association of Blind Croatians organised a protest, a protest on the square, that is, the Republic, that is, Ban Jelačić's Square here in Zagreb, warning of its uninvited situation. The situation is not really envious and it is for a large group, a large part of our population in the Republic of Croatia. Because according to the last census in Croatia, 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities live. Of which is 25 thousand of those from birth, 13,000 due to the consequences of World War II, 45 grand from the consequences of the Homeland War. The labour disability has about 110 thousand, the disabled due to the disease has nearly 200 thousand, of car accidents 18 thousand and the rest of 20 thousand. So it's one diverse, but it's also a large group that has the same problems. Problems to preserve what they have left and also to ensure their existence for themselves and for their family. What should be especially warned, therefore, is that with those 10% of our population, their family members are also highly tangled. Unfortunately, we can conclude that instead of taking over most of the commitment, especially those material to those persons, it is increasingly falling on the foundations, on the shoulders of their families. And with respect to obligations and expenses. As one example, they can point out, therefore, a new Health Insurance Act that has made it very difficult to treat disabled children in spas. According to the previous law, it was possible to recover travel expenses unless the place for treatment was more than 50 kilometers away. The new Health Insurance Act moved that border 100 kilometers away so that many parents of disabled children who went to rehab, an example is the Međimurje County where many parents went to rehab in the Varazdin spas must now pay travel expenses to the Varazdin spas, which is more than 50 kilometers away, and so far they did not have to do so. It's a huge expense to them, the cost they haven't had so far. Well, I'm also appealing from this pay phone to make this issue by changing the law as soon as possible... This would not be a great budget fund, but for those families who, 2 or 3 times a week, have to go to this treatment is a great obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are also some facts that we ourselves are acting against this strategy. Here, I said, therefore, that it was passed in the meantime by the Health Insurance Act, which added some new obligations to the parents of disabled children, that some initiatives were rejected here in the Croatian Assembly to facilitate the disabled from reaching certain aids. That's where I primarily think of the initiative that I was a signator, so that blind people get rid of VAT for the purchase of such aids. We should also talk about the status of foster parents, which is mostly, therefore, children who walk into centres... Education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are children with special needs. One with these resources, which they now have, cannot provide quality accommodation for these children in their families, and there is also an old problem of architectural barriers that are being resolved too slowly. Well, by studying at the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb himself, he had a graduate shop right from the architectural barriers and I see that the situation has not changed significantly here in Zagreb, and as it is only in other cities. So what I would like to specifically warn about are two segments, as far as working with people with disabilities is concerned. It's education and employment. I think there should be much more to make the strategy happen in its scope. As far as education is concerned, this strategy should also be met, therefore, with some basic objectives. Studies should be carried out on how many people with disabilities continue schooling in high school and how much after high school. We don't have a study like this so far, we don't have a list that could be traced year after year. These measures show that this list is working, but we haven't received any information and we don't have any information about how many such children actually have and what happens to them from one, in one educational system, and what happens in another education system. The choice of professions competitive on the market for people with disabilities should also be expanded. Unfortunately, this choice of profession is very narrow so that these people, with the difficulties they have on the labour market with such a large number of unemployed, have problems with how and whom to present and offer their skills. It should also carry out permanent monitoring of schooling with developmental difficulties, just as it is most important in schooling should integrate as many children with difficulties as possible into the regular school system and that is what I would especially warn about, so one story that has been told for years, unfortunately integration is still in the beginnings, and I think it would be very important to integrate as many children with developmental difficulties as possible into the regular school system. Unfortunately, even our schools are not yet qualified for this, I mean their material situation, a lot of such schools have neither secured nor access, no or secured didactic aids, nor has there been provided professional configuration, necessary experts, defecologists, logopedes, etc. which would help these children and the small number that are now to successfully integrate. So, this Strategy also speaks of measure 6, the educational integration programme of children with developmental difficulties and speaking, so the holder of the measure is defined by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and here it says that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has not been manifested about the steps taken to implement this measure. So, we see that even within the deadline, there will be no concrete results in that sense, I don't know what's going on with the ministry, maybe later we'll get that answer. Pre-school and school facilities and equipment for a specific group of children with disabilities and youth with disabilities should also be adapted, should be equipped and able to use the space and equipment of IT for blind and deaf persons and should also organise volunteer work with previous education. What is the situation can also serve us an example at the Centre for the Blind "Vinko Bek" which warns of the lack of information equipment for high school students and the insufficient number of workers in the printing press of books in Braille's letter. Thus, 45 primary school students, 50 to 60 high school students and about 15 adults who, due to their loss of vision at a later age, must be requalified for one of the occupations of the blind. It's a telephone, administrator and administrative secretary. For the last two professions of schools there is nothing to educate students because they lack at least 9 computers for the blind, and the problem is lack of space and didactic and other equipment for classrooms. The curriculum is also constantly changing, so three printers do not arrive to print textbooks for more than 12 items. For the making of textbooks, only one item takes 2 to 3 months, so at least 3 more people should be employed in the printers who might be working on the second shift. Now I have no information whether they managed to manage and employ two, three people, but by the time we got materials from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, it didn't give us the green light to hire an additional number of people. So, we see that we have major problems in this process of education and education, that on the one hand, education centres themselves with children with developmental difficulties have major problems because they are under-teamed, insufficiently equipped, and on the other hand the process of integration of children with developmental difficulties in primary school is completely blocked. So I think education is one of the most important processes in every person's life, and especially a person with developmental difficulties because it depends largely on how they live their lives. What I would like to warn you about is that, with education, therefore, the problem of employment itself is very important because if our system of education works for us, the question is where will these people, where will these children, where will those disabled spend the rest of their lifetime? Is it possible to hire them at all, in what way and under what conditions? Unfortunately, the answers we get from this strategy are very worrying. We've already heard about what happened to the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, that there are still major problems in its functioning, but also the amount of this material we've received, so this point 4 area of action professionally... employment and work is located only 6 pages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The smallest pages throughout this Strategy, and we all say that this is an important or most important issue, and of all 4 measures proposed, no measure has been reached until the end. So we have this 0 point which I think is unacceptable from one ministry transferring to another obligation, so that the fund itself has not functioned for a long time, so that in 2004, the fund's assets have been reduced by 21 million as planned to 9 million kuna. I think that these are not good messages that we warn our public especially the part of the population we call in this Strategy we have called them disabled and where we should all work very hard to make their lives easier and therefore make their lives more quality than it has ever been before, and that is possible only with quality education and only with the possibility of being safely employed within as short a time as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51091	Thank you very much, colleague. No more club reports. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Dr. Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51092	I thank Mrs. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a brief review after the club statements. It is not irrelevant to mention here when we were presenting this Strategy, many of you were mentioned those 12 measures that were not realised, we are also aware, but it is not important to note that we are now at the end of 2005 and that some of these measures that are mentioned here have already been implemented, or are still under way now, but it is not really for this report because this report is for 2003 and 2004. We must also note that it has not been easy to make such a report on the implementation of the National Strategy because one of the reasons you see and not only that the number of holders is measures, and therefore the control and coordination of their implementation is difficult. As holders of measures related to a number of different systems of action are envisaged as you have seen the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Associations of 7 Ministries, 4 institutions and NGOs of persons with disabilities and associations acting programically for the benefit of persons with disabilities. We have also seen the Committee of the Government for Persons with Disabilities, and as you can see in point 2 of the Final Provisions, so that the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities is actually redefined and thought is given to establishing or considering the establishment of an Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities, which would be one of the co-ordinated national bodies in policy implementation for the benefit of persons with disabilities. I would also like to point out on this occasion that the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Committee for Persons with Disabilities by the end of 2005 is to consider the possibility of introducing a Advocate for Persons with Disabilities and notes here that the working text of the law is finished. Therefore, it is another institution that would be in favour of this so that such a strategy adopted in 2003 and for the implementation of 2003 to 2006 could be better implemented. So, I also want to say that no one has been hiding here that there has been a failure and the fact is that there will always be a failure that will not be foreseen by any strategy and that there will be a situation that, despite existing legal regulations and security rights, always exists in any system of individuals who are going to do their job badly or poorly. It is important to establish who is doing the job badly and therefore we cannot always argue if an individual or an individual or someone from the ministry has done something wrong that then the system does not work because I hope that everyone is a common goal and that is to ensure and promote the rights of persons with disabilities. We also submitted a report on this strategy as a committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities, associations which have also reached some conclusions and many conclusions that we will put in place and later on to implement further strategies, and I also hope that in individual discussions, like you clubs, you have made certain conclusions, certain remarks that we will adopt all together in order to be as effective as possible in the development of a new strategy and implementation by this 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51093	Thank you to the secretary of state. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First came from colleague Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51094	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, so we're talking about the 2003-2004 report. It's quality-made, but it's a year late. We at the SDP Club warned when the state administration was reshuffled that people with disabilities had fallen out of the system. So that's exactly what happened now that we're looking at this report that the ministries are transferring responsibility to each other. I'm really interested in who's going to and whether or not and who's going to respond to the name and last name exactly for those failures, and I think we should deal with it a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51095	Thank you very much. This would be more of a replica. Representative Stazic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51096	The secretary of state says because this or that ministry, or this or that office is doing badly, we can't conclude that the system isn't working. We can, we can. Not that we can, but we have to. Because if the government had resolved a minister who didn't do bad, one, two, three, who the head of the state body because he didn't meet this strategy then you'd be right, then we could tell me the system works. And like this, the responsibility for the failure of that system is borne by the entire government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51097	Thank you very much. We can start with a ten-minute debate. First up, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51098	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! Who submitted this report? It is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And if we had now accepted that report, we would have accepted all the reasons that the Government of the Republic of Croatia stated in its report, which is why it does not partially fulfil that strategy and you see it inadmissible. Those reasons are unacceptable. This is a bureaucratic report that actually testifies in its bureaucratism about its insolence, the insolence of this government and its incredible irresponsibility when it comes to disabled people. Let's do it in a row. By the end of March 2003, the Government Office of the Republic of Croatia had to develop a code of positive practice, etc. Not to quote it. He did not do so but the Government Office of the Republic of Croatia for Associations on 15 January 2004, which means ten months later, it states that the holder of the code making and positive practices will be the Central State Administration Office. First, it took the government a year to appoint the head man of the Association Office and this lady found ten months later what she did not do by the end of March 2003 that she was not at all competent and that someone else would do it. Look, that's how it could have been for every single step of the way. There are many such examples. It could have been every ministry... Let's go to another ministry and make absolutely nothing out of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is just inadmissible. I wonder what kind of sanctions she was carrying that took ten months to determine whether she was in charge or not. Is she being replaced maybe? Is her salary cut? Did she apologize to the disabled? Did she apologize to the public? Did the government apologize? Nothing. This bureaucratic report says she didn't do it because she said someone else would. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance had until the end of 2003 to propose amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government and on the financing of local units etc. regional self-government, which will develop certain matters in the area of these units of local and regional self-government in favour of persons with disabilities. They didn't. Why? Let's see why? The government says why they didn't do it. They say, because the adoption of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is not in part of the Ministry of Justice. That's an apology. The Justice Department was tasked with doing so and they found out they didn't, but he says it's not in our area. So why didn't he do the one in whose circle he was because you don't write here why you didn't do it, why the government didn't do it. But it says, the adoption of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is within the scope of the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, they admit it. But the Ministry of Finance now says no amendments and additions to that law have been implemented because the financing system does not allow this and the Ministry of Finance proposes that units of local and regional self-government single out larger funds from their budgets. Please, the Ministry of Finance was tasked with finding the money to secure the money. They didn't secure the money that was their commitment from the strategy, but they said so let the local self-government units do it. What do we care? Let them deal with it. That's what the government is sending to Parliament as a report. It's a report of the government's complete incompetence and incompetence towards the disabled. Furthermore, it was necessary to ensure the availability of school spaces for exceptional sports and other activities of children and young people with developmental difficulties, in charge of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And he says they didn't make it clear. But now be careful why they didn't do it. It says the financial resources for these purposes are not secured in the 2004 state budget. Please nice, who's proposing a budget? Government. Who refused all the amendments, up to one on that budget? That same government again. And now that government says but we couldn't do it because it wasn't in the budget. Guys, this is so cynical, not according to this Parliament. He taught this Parliament the sloppy work of the government. But this is cynical to the disabled, according to those children who needed to be assured to play in the sports halls of schools. First I ask myself, why would the funding be extra? Well, it's an organization thing. Let them into sports halls. They didn't do it, and now he says, "We didn't because there's no passage that we bring, which we suggest. That's where we didn't see it coming, and now we can't even do it." The Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute were due by the end of 2004 to find an appropriate legal solution to determine the criteria in disability insurance for the consequences of work injuries and occupational diseases. Clearly, it wasn't done. It shouldn't be mentioned. Let's see why it wasn't done. Whether, as forecasting says are projected, it envisions considering possibilities, predicting possibilities. To establish separate insurance from professional risks and not just to settle standards. So we haven't taken care of the scales. Why? Well, because we're thinking of doing something much better and more systematic. And when are we gonna do that? We have no idea what else you're up to, nor are you suggesting. By the time you think it, because you're the same, you're the one who predicts that you're going to consider opportunities. That's your plan of action. It's your plan of action, it's your operation. And what you're supposed to do is not because you're predicting an opportunity. It's really beautiful. If something in that strategy was wrong, the criteria so that you did not propose to amend the strategy. Well, let's say we don't measure it, but, I don't know, we're going to, I don't know, make it a professional risk insurance, so let's apply it. But do something. Do something, and don't do this kind of thinking, predicting the possibility of sending it to the Parliament. By the end of 2004, legislative legal protection had to be brought into line for the more equal position and protection of military and civilian wartime peoples and participants of World War II, peacetime wartime wartime people and civilian people with disabilities from the Homeland War and so on. It's not made, and it's written what's done. He says, "It's founded, it's supposed to be a working group," and a working group is really set up. It's really grounded. It's up to two by the end of 2004. We are now at the end of 2005, already, the whole of this legislation should be over. None of this legislation has been made but the truth is God's established working group. And what did this task force do? Her mission was to analyze the current situation. And now it says that the results have been obtained, an analysis of the current situation has been made. It's a huge success of the task force, and by 2004 it was all supposed to be over. But look, it's not such an irrelevant question. It's equalizing the rights of the disabled. The invalids are here, with us there's segregation of the disabled in relation to the origin of the disability, the cause of disability. They are divided by how this disability occurred. It's not the same as World War II disability, Homeland War disability, civilian disability. Until we agree that the eye is the eye, that vision is the sight. So she doesn't see, that the blind person doesn't see no matter how she's lost her sight and that she needs equal help from society, we won't move any further to help the disabled. That the hand is the hand, that the foot is the leg, whether it is lost in World War II or in the Homeland War or in a car accident or in a work injury. This is the task I expect the government to propose, and it had to be proposed by strategy by the end of 2004. Except that she started a task force didn't do anything. I know you look at no money I can't get a man's eyesight back. No money can give him back his lost leg or his arm. But there's something else I can do. Society can tell disabled people you're not superfluous, we didn't throw you away. And we do not divide you into more desirable and less desirable. You're all equal, we all want to help each other equally. This company needs you. There you are, a part of us. He can do that. That's what you government gentlemen didn't do. You didn't send such a message to the disabled. You've sent a bureaucratic report, as I say, heartlessly and cynically. And that's why I don't think this report should be accepted because accepting it means forgiving you for what you haven't done and you should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51099	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations and replicas. First the corrections. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Stazic said this report shows all the incompetence and irresponsibility of this government. After that, you quoted a March 2003 commitment. So do you even remember who was in power until the end of 2003? Do you really remember who was in power? It's not the insolence or irresponsibility of this government, it's the very government, your colleagues sitting with you in the same bench today. You're saying that someone hasn't spent since March 2003, but on January 15, 2004, a changed decision was made and another one was made. Of course it's changed, there's a new government that's seen all the ineffectiveness, irresponsibility and incompetence of your government. That's what this report is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51101	Thank you very much. The next amendment was reported by MP Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51102	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it's also not true, sir, that this government is insolent when it comes to disabled people. It's closer to the truth that the former government, through extensive audits of military invalids, has trampled the dignity of disabled defenders who have lost body parts to give lessons to the government here. However, by adopting positive laws, this government has corrected the many injustices it has done to the disabled of the Homeland War, the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51103	Thank you very much, colleague. Following the correction, MP Ivan Bagaric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51104	... A good part of my colleagues have already corrected this one, this one, these false allegations. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I would only bow to that segment when my colleague Stazic, because of his, I don't know, needs to be attractive and convincing such big and valuable things as this report is, among other things, that I, in which I see absolute concern for those he spoke about, declares bureaucratic, declares the government's weakness and declares incompetence. Exactly the opposite of my colleague I will track everything and the way you put it, but really, I'm surprised how could you both improperly and bureaucratically and insinuately use such a big and important problem in favour of your own promotion? And in a very wrong way at the wrong time and in the wrong place. This report is the best evidence that in one systematic review of all the problems the government faces in the implementation of the policy strategy of care for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51105	My colleague's time is up. You're actually the only one polymizing whether the report is good or not. There'd rather be replicas. The advice is a replica. ... Please, we won't insult each other. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replica was reported by MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with part of the presentation of the esteemed fellow Stazic that the actual report in many parts shows both incompetence and irresponsibility, both these and those governments before this government. But for me, it's a special part that's scary, and it's a relationship to disabled children. That part is terrifying how it's seen in this report. You are scheduled 12 measures in school for disabled children. No measures have been taken. No measures have been taken, and 12 measures are foreseen for children with disabilities in school. So what kind of message do we send to disabled children? There are a lot of different occasions where senior officials show up, open tapes, but this is the scary part. 12 measures in school for disabled children, none of them launched from a dead end, and all of this suggests that this is why I cannot accept this report, but I can only take it to the knowledge. 12 measures for disabled children, if that doesn't concern you, it's a sad fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51107	Thank you, colleague. Please report to the Rules of Procedure, don't argue in benches. The reply to the replica has the right of fellow Stazic. Here you go. Please, nice colleagues!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51108	You have noticed this excellently, colleague Kovacevic, and that may be the most painful point in this report. And that may well be the best support for the thesis I've brought about a bureaucratic and insolent and cynical relationship with people with disabilities. Because when it can be that way with respect to children with disabilities, and what they needed to provide schools, they provide school halls to rehabilitate. That didn't work out either. It was not done either, but what was not done was made by colleagues Bagaric. To him, it's a great success of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51109	Thank you very much. Please don't pollemize from the bench. The next is representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51110	Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So I really think that my colleague Stazic, but many before him who spoke also very clearly and well showed that in this report the government itself documented its dissatisfaction and ineffectiveness to solve problems, in this case the problems of disabled people. And I really don't think there's any room for you two years ago in the government, because those who, after two years in power, justify their incompetence with the moves of the former government really just show that they're not capable of solving problems today, and the problems of the disabled really don't deserve to be talked about in this way and that things are politicized in this way, but I think that here we should have enough courage and tell the gentlemen that we didn't do it, and that when they're disabled and see how the government goes on and that really in favour of the disabled some things they did. The fact is in Croatia that we have extremely good documents, we have extremely good strategies, we have good laws. Unfortunately, we're having an extremely bad time. That it is thus interpreted by the European Union, which is Croatia as the first country to negotiate entry into the European Union, the first country to which it has given a set deadline for the implementation of the law. So, not only for the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union, but also for the report and monitoring of the concrete application of the law, because they saw that it has become perfectly normal in Croatia to bring here very good laws and strategies, but that nothing is actually applied as this report says. Unfortunately, neither were we heard from the opposition when we said that the separation of the Ministry of Social Welfare to two ministries, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of the Family is something that is bad for all those concerned, therefore, and who are in the portfolio of that ministry. Here, today, we have a chance to discuss that the disabled have somehow lost themselves somewhere and that maybe that's why they've stagnated in their rights over the past two years. It was also not heard when we said there was no money in the budget on some items, but it was here from a series of ministries that tried to convince us that there would be money for certain programmes. It is now visible, and the government itself confirms in this report that some projects have not been provided with funds in the budget. I think my colleague Škulić here said something about the lack of kindergarten in Croatia for children with multiple damages, so for children with disabilities. The fact is that only large cities with financial resources can, with the support of other perhaps associations or, for example, in some cities with Caritas, open kindergartens for such children. Unfortunately, in those environments that don't have money, and most of them don't have kindergartens for such children. So I think in those places where children with disabilities are extremely difficult to live on, I think that the state should give a lot more than it does so far, even though I'm saying that the good part and the local self-government units here have their own influence. On the other hand, it is not safe enough jobs, and ultimately, the Associations of Disabilities say and warn about ever slower economic growth and less job openings and think that in such an economic environment, they have even less chance of finding their jobs, and I think that, therefore, most people living with developmental difficulties are people who can give their pain to society in certain jobs and I think that they can be useful, so they can certainly do one part of the job. Unfortunately, however, there are very few jobs for them, and it should be said, of course, that here, in the full two years, the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund has not revived a person who could certainly have contributed to greater employment and job creation and the motivation of employers to employ people with disabilities. Also, NGOs or the Associations of Persons with Disabilities have been warning for years, but here today they are very large differences in disability, so they are in financial rights themselves. Someone here said there's no money to compensate for the difficulties these people live with. That's absolutely true, but the fact that it can make their lives easier after all. For example, the fact is that there is an extremely large difference in the pension system, for example, that we have disabled workers who have still remained with very low disabilities. I really think that the equal needs of every disabled person are independent of how this disability has arisen and therefore they warn that, through the conduct of pension reforms, there are still extremely large differences, and the needs are completely equal. They also warn that the Institute of Aid and Care is regulated very essentially by what they say is regulated so that it is not equal for every person with disabilities and that it is unequally regulated for example the need for helpers with disabilities. Thus, they warn of still many differences among people with disabilities in certain groups, which I do not think is good. Because I'm saying that every person's disability, or the problems these people live with, is exactly the same and should have equal national concerns. In the end, I would like to say something about people who have problems, or suffer from autism. Namely, I was contacted by the Association of Parents who therefore have children suffering from autism and what is their basic problem is in fact the responsibility for their problem exclusively of the Ministry of Education and Education. In their opinion, however, this population should be in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, since in the education system these children, i.e. those persons, are extremely neglected. They have been ignored to the point that these parents have tried to offer a pilot project called "The Living Community, House of Housing" where they sought support from the state, so from the state budget. Unfortunately, they have not received and are trying to provide money through donations for a pilot project that would show that with children or persons with autism, they can do quite differently from what we do today and how we take care of these children today. And I use this opportunity to try to move you on behalf of the parent association of people who are so autistic, in a way to appeal to you to try to move those persons from the ministry of education, education and sport to the health and social care portfolio, because they really need a whole other treatment than this in the education system where they don't really care about all those who found themselves in the Center, for example. Zagreb's autism says the conditions of accommodation and work and even access to such a population are extremely poor that they are therefore completely ineffective when it comes to the quality of life of people suffering from autism. And here, because of all this that's been mentioned in the debates before me, but also everything I've just said I can't vote for this report on implementing a single policy for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51111	Thank you very much. We have the first corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first representative of Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51112	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There's another one... who says this is about trying to justify the incompetence of this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No colleagues, this is also a report for 2003 and 2004, which clearly and transparently shows that your government had no responsibility or any sympathy for this population. She even reduced and reduced their rights. So it's not about justifying this government's incompetence, exactly the opposite. After all, we'll have a report in front of us soon for 2005, so you'll see everything that's been done. There's been a lot of things done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51113	Thank you very much. The next one was the correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ma'am MPs, and when false is spoken then it is spoken so that it is kept to hold at least a little water, and yours is false, admit you have done nothing, it has not held water for 3 minutes. What we did is right in front of you, and you can tell from the report. And you didn't do anything, and you can tell by the fact that two years ago there was no report on these benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51115	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote, MP Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from fellow Opačić that reducing the number of new jobs, the disabled, is the result of slowing economic growth. Well, colleagues, according to your claims from 2000 to 2003, they were already supposed to be all disabled employees. In fact, the real truth is that the protection workshops died because of the large imports of products they produced, as well as the relationship of employers to people with disabilities, as well as older people should be changed. So you really need to force him to a certain number of employees and disabled people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51117	Thank you very much. The following is reported for the replica by counterpart Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This time I volunteered for the replica so they wouldn't misjudge my correction to an incorrect quote. So, fellow Opacic, you say and so this report is a weakness of the government. And I ask you, how can it be a weakness for the government if the report states in orderly that 70 measures that this government needs, or all future governments, are being implemented in order to improve policy, care for persons with disabilities, have been drawn up? And if of these 70 measures 12 of them are realised and 12 of these 70 measures are unrealized and 46 out of 70 of them are implemented continuously, and 19 of them are continuously implemented and therefore constantly implemented. I ask the question, how can there be a weakness of the government that evaluates, which brings a review of what it does, which says what is not good and does everything to actually correct it, that is, to improve it? After all, how can it be a weakness of the government, and if he admits, not admits, but evaluates what has not been done in society and what should be done better? If you ask me about the condition of disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia and I will say that is not good. However, the question of the realisation of the right, i.e. resolving the issue of disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia, is not building highways, whether we built it or not. And when we build a highway, it needs to be upgraded, it needs to be fixed, it needs to be permanently worked on. Also, this is one question society encounters, not government. And finally, what has not been done is not only the responsibility of the government, it is the responsibility of the whole society. We live in a society where they have no employment, nor are those who are healthy, let alone those who are physically, etc. They're not healthy. We cannot influence someone to accept such a person when he does not receive even one who is physically healthy. So it's a matter of ethics, morality, philosophy. It's a whole society thing. Besides, buddy, I have to ask you a question. If you have a good intention...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51119	My colleague, I beg you to ask your colleague, but not after the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51120	No, I'm done. If you have good intentions and you really care for disabled people, then how can you criticize an attempt to help people with disabilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51121	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51122	This is my colleague, Bagaric. I really have no intention of politicizing on this subject and interrupting any communication in this way with you and with your club, and disabled people, or persons with disabilities, know best what problems they have and how they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51123	Thank you very much. We have another replica, representative Jurjevic. Here you go. Please, my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51124	I think that, indeed, it is necessary to make sure that autistic children are treated in the framework of the Ministry of Science, Education and Education, rather than the Ministry of Health and Social Care. But by the way, some things have been mentioned here, so here we go. In Croatia, counterpart Bagaric says that in Croatia not everyone is healthy, which is true. but we need to fight to ensure that in the same qualification structure, a disabled person who is equally qualified as well as a healthy person has an advantage in employment. A disabled person, therefore, in the same qualification structure, according to the same, when able to do this job must have an advantage, and cannot yet be discriminated against in employment if she is already discriminated on by the mere fact biological or not, to the health care that she is disabled. That's the thing. Here, my colleague Škulić worked regularly in the United States, so she told us what the measures were. The measures are very restrictive to employers who even tell jokes about people with disabilities, who, if they don't hire people with disabilities in the same, therefore to the education structure, then they come under the influence of the state. It's supposed to be with us. Invalids should be placed in a position to be employed rather than by another person, if they have equal abilities and equal degrees of education. I'd just like to mention asbestos. You know that in the area of Split, Solin and that entire pool there are many people who are sick of asbestos. We have this disabled Homeland War for five years in the Homeland War, 100% disabled and now out on the street and out of work and sick of asbestos. And if we don't take care of it, if we don't get rid of it... We'll all, become whole areas disabled, and unfortunately in the budget we've cut into some of the environmental resources that are related. [[You don't understand.]] I don't allow axes to become a disabled area.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51125	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the government, the secretary of state, Mrs. Dorica Nikolic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51126	Well, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice President, two things just to clarify, there may have been some confusion or misread. Finally, you have an analysis of the state of implementation of the national strategy with a table. If we are talking about 12 measures, they have not been implemented, but it does not mean that 12 measures have not been implemented within the framework of one ministry. It was said here that 12 measures were not implemented. If you're looking, then you should look at what's written in progress, so also here where it's written where it's being spent on a continuous basis. Those who spend on a continuous basis are that every year. So if we take health, sport and recreation, then it's one-of-a-kind, ten-in-one, four-permanent. So that's how it's supposed to be read, maybe that's why there's been a mix-up. And the other thing that's often mentioned here, about schooling children, or people with disabilities, because the child is also a person. Therefore, she has the right to be educated just as much as any other child. If a child with disabilities, we talk about schooling, then we need to think about the fact that the child who is being educated has the right to be educated on equal terms. So he doesn't have to be just because he has one of the disabilities to be a social case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51127	Thank you to the secretary of state. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51128	First, it's an incorrect assumption that someone's looking for disabled children to be a social case. That is why measures should be taken to ensure that they are normally involved in society. And second, you answer me. This national strategy is valid until 2006, so by the end of this month, what will you do next if you fail. ... No, it says by 2006 it's worth it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not exactly 2006. Veli is valid from 2003 to 2006. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51129	Thank you very much. The following has appeared to correct the incorrect allegations by MP Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51130	I would comment when it's said that certain things are ongoing. However, in these particulars, it states, inter alia, that it is not in the jurisdiction of a programme, or that a working group, collected data or processing is ongoing, and that there is no money in the budget. That's all he's saying about that flow. This isn't how it's shown, so it's all at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51131	Thank you very much. Representative Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51132	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs Nikolic said there may have been a mix-up in reading this material. No, I don't. There was no confusion, but it was one truly political and domestic attempt to collect political points at the troubles of others. That is unfortunately the case by some fellow MPs as well as a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51133	Thank you very much. Representative Škulić also reported on the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51134	Thank you very much. It's not politics. I would like and ask all my colleagues to deal with high policy when it comes to people with disabilities and to treat them just as high politics should, therefore, protect their dignity. Otherwise, the correction of an incorrect quote. As for the right to education, all children in the Republic of Croatia have the right to education. However, in Croatia, all children do not have access to the education system, because schools are inaccessible, we do not have enough educational teams, so no teams have been formed in our schools yet, and we cannot say that all children have the right to education. They do, but unfortunately as well as on paper. Also when it comes to dignity, unfortunately there are not only disabled Homeland War, in Croatia lives, it is only about 10% of the total number of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and I think we should respect that number. If we step on the dignity of people with disabilities in the Homeland War, we must turn a little bit to those other 410 thousand people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and think about their dignity and also about the workers of the DES in Split who these days are standing outside of their factory because of the non-implementation of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51135	Thank you very much, dear colleague. No more reports, no more corrections, no more replicas. What? I didn't see it. ... None of us saw it at the table, but okay. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you, a friend of Pancic's license plate? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation? Who do you want to correct?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51136	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51138	I'm correcting Mrs. Secretary of State's guilty that she said, there may have been a mistake. That was corrected by fellow Matušić, but I would say something quite the opposite. No, there was no confusion, unfortunately. This particular report shows the complete ineffectiveness and incompetence of this government. I am sorry to say this and what this government is here and after only two years has shown all ineffectiveness and inability throughout the whole range of areas, and unfortunately in this very sensitive area of protection for disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51139	Thank you very much, colleague. The next one appeared in a 10-minute debate, representative Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, if we want to ask ourselves where we have failed to implement the measures of the National Single Policy Strategy, I think we should actually just hear what the representatives of these associations have clearly articulated these days. They have made it very clear that they are not satisfied with the removal of architectural barriers, that they are not satisfied with the availability of education and that they are not satisfied with the possibility of employment. These three things are, in fact, their main objection to the implementation of this national strategy. Architectural barriers are not removed quickly enough, but on the other hand we are also aware that they cannot be removed overnight. And for this reason, it is extremely important that the competent ministry takes care of all newly built institutions, all newly built buildings so that at least in that section we do not have any further problems. And, of course, it should also be encouraged to remove those architectural barriers that today prevent all categories of disabled persons from having the availability of different services. This applies, of course, to the system, to availability, the education system not only in this architectural sense, to the sense of physical obstacles, but of course to different persons, to persons with different degrees and types of disability, so to enable education that would then allow them to be included in the system of work. As for the possibility or inability to hire, let me at least be a little wider here, since this is indeed a problem number 1 in Croatian society today, and also for this reason and problem number 1 for disabled people. Unfortunately, I was familiar with an example of a young woman who graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. She has hearing impairment, applied to the Ministry of Finance as an intern, went through two rounds of conversation, entered a narrower choice, and did not get a job in this narrow choice. I think you can actually see on this particular example all the tragedy of our society because exactly the state institutions, exactly the state apparatus should be unusually sensitive to people with special needs. If this person was a doctor at the age of 23, I think that fact should have just been one plus compared to all the other candidates who applied for the job. If she doesn't want to be hired by a state apparatus, if she doesn't want to be hired by the Ministry of Finance or any other state institution, how will a privateer hire her? Very hard, to expect actually impossible. After all, and this Fund that we have for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people our experience so far is not very positive. As stated in this report, therefore, there were some difficulties in organising a job in alimony of these funds towards end-users, and I really think that there is also a need for the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to really release those intended means of purpose which is noble and which definitely needs to be used in the fastest possible, time period and, therefore, to enable organisations and persons with disabilities to use funds from that fund. As for the very problem, therefore, of persons with disabilities and their availability to different services, the fact is that in fact the state apparatus, i.e. the administration, is very rarely interested in the education of this species. Except, of course, teachers, educators, teachers, who when they have a touch, say, with children who are deaf or not, are happy to actually respond to such educational seminars and become adequate to work with such children. The problem, of course, is in this category of deaf and dumb and the fact that there is still no unified, standardised sign language in Croatia today, and the state should also make one effort to achieve this unity. In particular, I would also refer to one segment of this report that speaks therefore of the need for certain rights, certain obligations for people with disabilities to be realised in a way through units of local self-government. It seems to me that to the extent that these units of local self-government can finance that people with disabilities are not deprived of their rights because for local self-government units these people are not some imaginary categories, but things are people with real problems, with the real needs that come to competent offices and seek the achievement of their rights. In that sense, I think it's also not important to say that the most important thing for people with disabilities in the country at any level today are volunteers. But the legislator, but the government has not yet been able to resolve volunteer status in an adequate legal manner so that their work and norms and values can be settled. For example, it is also possible to hire, which again brings those categories of people with disabilities who need other people's help again, therefore, into an unequal position. Now, I'd like to conclude what this, the implementation of this National Strategy, the single policy for people with disabilities, is what those most concerned think. I think that the very associations and representatives of these associations have said it in the clearest and most qualitative terms. And it's just for us that our efforts are going in this direction, too, that what was recognized as problem number one we really start and solve, and in a way that we finally recognize for ourselves where there are problems. If there are problems at the state level, for example, in employment, then we cannot switch problems to some imaginary third but we should start solving them in our own home. For me there is no excuse, there is no alibi that exactly in any form of administration, people with disabilities do not get their first chance of employment and, of course, by achieving their quality existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51141	Thank you, colleague. Correction of incorrect allegations, MP Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51142	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. It is not true that architectural barriers are not removed for people with disabilities. For example, the Ministry of Culture works to remove architectural barriers and introduce information support elements for deaf and blind people. In the national park, for example, Krka was adapted to the road on Skradinski noise for the movement of persons with disabilities. In nature park Medvednica, a project was launched to bring parks closer to people with all kinds of disabilities. The Ministry of Protection and the Environment and Spatial Planning has passed a new law on construction in which important movements have been made for people with disabilities. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development continuously works to mark hotel rooms and other rooms with relief and symbols and sound devices for people with visual impairment, information messages for deaf persons, accessibility and adaptation of the interior of objects and accessibility to other tourist facilities. Newly built ships equipped with sanitary spaces, and larger boats with lifts for disabled persons. Airports intended for regular and charter transport own infrastructure that enables the movement of passengers with reduced mobility without major difficulties. These are examples, and this is all in front of you as well as in front of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51143	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a replica. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51144	Thank you. Oh, you see, fellow. When it comes to employment and jobs, people with disabilities, but not just those. When it comes to Split it's not just... What happened to your ex-Yugoplastic or Diocom? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the real reason for shutting down their production? The real reason is that even some ministers in the former government imported toys from China through their companies, destroyed the competitiveness of such institutions, destroyed the competitiveness of other large companies, for example in Jugoplastica or Diokom, worked 5, 6 thousand people. It's all gone to get some ministers through their companies to make a profit, so. And hundreds of thousands of workers are left out of work in those industries. Someone say today what toy is produced in the Croatian state? It's all Magma, it's all fog, it's all good, and so, we all know what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51145	Thank you very much. My colleagues have the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51146	Thank you very much. I must thank my esteemed colleague. I agree with him because what the gentleman said is actually an excellent description of everything that happened to Croatian workers in the '90s. Many have lost their jobs, but those who thank God are healthy have at least had a better position to find new jobs since 2000, but I'm afraid as far as people with disabilities are concerned, that neither the state wants to do anything for them, and that only the private sector would.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51147	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. The next debate came from a representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51148	Thank you, Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We are today discussing the report on the implementation of the National Strategy, a unique Strategy for people with disabilities that is valid from 2003 to 2006, this report refers to last year and part of 2003. I would like to start by saying that I expect a new National Strategy as a representative immediately from the beginning of next year as a follow-up to this, but I also expect the report for 2005 to begin immediately next year. In order not to discuss the new National Strategy as a report again, we may not be discussing it until the end of 2006, but let me put it this way in my debate. Croatia according to its documents of the Constitution, the law it has, the international documents which the signatories respect that persons with disabilities regardless of their origin, nature and degree of their damage or disability have the same fundamental rights as their fellow citizens of the same age, which implies primarily and most important worthy as normal and fulfilling life as possible. The task of the Strategy on whose implementation we are talking today is to fight discrimination against persons with disabilities through various measures to improve the situation and remove misunderstandings for the status and problems these persons face and to be precise measures of active policy implementation of the National Strategy were adopted in May 2005 in Opatija. I, as a parliamentary representative, am not satisfied with the dynamics of implementing the measures we are talking about here today. To tell me that out of 70 measures 12 has not been met, or has not been realized, and of those 12, almost the largest number, the part relating to the education system in which people with disabilities should be involved, say that 12 measures have been implemented fully, and that 46 are implemented as a representative that is not sufficient. We are very inclined at different levels to be successfully present, to attend and take pictures at different manifestations, to mark the days dealing with disabled people, to sign the charter, but people with disabilities crash daily and regardless of their unequal rights. We're wondering how many of them are in the decision-making process? A very minor number, depending heavily on the social care system, is an inadequate system of education and professional rehabilitation, not to say that the system is slightly underregulated and I will also say here that I do not think the system is fully functioning. I remind and fear that a whole year has been lost, and it seems to me, and then I will prove to the Employment Fund, that another year will be lost, and that because there has been no distribution of jobs in the government in time, so to speak, between the newly created ministries, i.e. the ministries that have merged, separated and so on. It's not just a problem with the disabled, so the other day we had a debate on the amendments to the Social Care Act, now that we have a debate on the formation of state ministries, or state bodies, waiting for us to discuss it again. So, a lot has been lost and I can't accept the fact that Mrs. Secretary of State has been seen now after all this time that a lot of it, so a lot of jobs have been sorted out in different ministries, so now it's very difficult to coordinate. I don't think it's hard to coordinate if you have the right person to do that. Speaking of the employment system let me get back to it and get back to it, I'm already saying the famous Professional Rehabilitation and Disabilities Fund. My colleagues and colleagues, I remind you of the budget debate and the implementation of the state budget all last year, but also this year and when we talked about the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for Persons with Disabilities for 2004 and this report also. For example, it was envisaged. More than 21 million kuna for that purpose. In December 2004, the Fund's Administrative Council here states that 9 million kunas can be deployed. No one knows, nor has anyone been given an explanation where other millions of kunas, 12 million kunas, were missing from the Development and Employment Fund as well. It should also be said that if I'm wrong, correct me, I don't think there's a person in charge today. Please, this report says in 3 months of this year, when it was done, it is written and it says that the competition for the top place of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund is under way. It's 12 months now, so deny me again if I'm wrong, I think there's a contest going on right now. What does that mean? That the contest lasts a year or that the contests are cancelled or that no person can be found or what? And then again next year, we'll talk about how much the funds were actually spent for this year, or how much money would be spent next year. These 9 million kunas, if I read the report well, are spent only, and yet not enough resources, to tackle situations in these companies that are otherwise engaged in the employment of disabled people, but obviously something is wrong neither in that nor in that, and that is absolutely not enough when the workers of these companies are still on the streets. So, one idea that I think was good just to start working on time, I don't know for what reasons, but 2 full years from the beginning of 2004 to the day of today still doesn't have a head man and it still doesn't know if it will. For the next year, we spend, say, 37 million kuna, or we'll be faced by the representatives and the MPs at one of the budget rebalances where it will be seen that nothing has been spent again. When we talk about employment in the Report, we also mention the measures of the active employment policy of the Republic of Croatia within the Croatian Employment Institute. The 2006 Budget, which explains how much funding has been allocated for an active employment policy, literally says to implement what the government says will take more than 380 million kuna. The budget for the following year provides around 180 million kuna and is secured for measures that are also in that reasoning, in fact not yet adopted. They are yet to be given to an inter-resor group that should only be given to the Government for consideration at the beginning of next year, and these measures, which include the employment of disabled persons, are intended to employ a total of 880 people over the next four years but are not just people with disabilities, these are also unemployed defenders. It's between the other and a single mother. These include women who are in difficulty when they need to return to work after using maternity leave of three years. Therefore, the rights of disabled and disabled associations who warned us about the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, which was the three biggest problems facing barriers, architectural barriers, an insufficient system of education and their failure to participate in the system of education and employment problems, and the implementation of this report for 2003, 2004 are actually saying that they are really right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51149	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First came MP Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51150	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, it is not true that nothing has been done on the basis of the employment of persons with disabilities. I'll give you one of the examples. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. It should be pointed out in this case that the same secure way of providing funds for the achievement of monetary incentives through a fund based on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons through a specific contribution to the promotion of the employment of disabled persons who are required to be charged by all employers who employ more than 20 employees. The conditions of priority in employment are defined in the case of meeting criteria and other benefits for persons with disabilities. From what I hear, you and your husband have a private company. How many employees do you have with disabilities? [[There's no noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51151	I'm asking you nicely, fellow Members, there are ways you can handle this. Please, don't make any warnings. Let's stick to the order. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next correction of the incorrect quote by the representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd fix my colleague Sobol in her debate. I would disagree if she said that the most time had been lost at the very beginning when the ministry was joined or separated and that it was during that period that the category in Croatia was somehow being disabled. That's not true. Look, this category of disabled people, and I'm going to especially highlight kids with special needs. It is in this report that during the period when you were at the head of the ministry and when you led the government, you were the one who abolished the rights of children with special needs. I don't think you should talk any further and that it's for me, Mrs. Sobol, one exposure with one hypocrite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51153	Thank you very much. Replica zastavnik Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51154	Well, first of all, I'd like to say that we're talking about a topic on which we shouldn't try to get political change into what would be said rather than try to solve the issue of disabled people as best as possible. It is said here that disabled people have the same fundamental rights as all other citizens and it is also found that the biggest problems arise with the employment of disabled people. And that's the fact that we're running into each other. Let's do something like the Croatian Parliament to change that. We also have specific cases. This is where he was mentioned several times... one institution in Split where most of the employees are disabled of this category and that category. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that at the moment they are going out into the streets, trying to appeal to the Croatian public, they are not receiving salaries. The fact is that the founders do not meet their obligations but what is the greatest danger to me is that tomorrow God does not let it happen, to show that in "Dess" it was actually about war, about fighting to conquer this space that is one of the most attractive in the city of Split. If it happens in the future, whoever's in power, then the worst hunch will come true. What's this about? If this were to be dispersed and sold, some needs of the disabled would have been met at first, and they would have been chased into the street. In the Salonita, it happened that the Salonite was robbed and then it turned out that even those who are sick in the Salonit had no fundamental human rights and are fighting for those rights today, and that they were the first to be fired. That's what happened. As far as Rebecca Jugoplasty's concerned, it's a lot wider and you know it. It's not just about Jujuplasty. It's about a whole one problem far bigger where thousands and tens of thousands of people are out of work because of what happened in a certain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51155	Thank you very much, colleague. Although I'm no longer sure who you're reporting for the line, my colleague Rebic or my colleague Sobol? Not just the direction you were looking at, but the way you discussed it. I'm asking you nicely to plan mutual accounts and mutual accusations that are on a private level and are beginning to be visible. Please, the topic we're discussing today, we all agreed that it's very important and now it's used for private accounts. The last few people reported were doing it. I'm asking you nicely to start the debate and not do it anymore. Here you are, fellow Sobol, right to reply to the replica. Excuse me, did you get that? Excuse me, colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51156	A colleague, Jurjevic, abused his rules of procedure because he was to replicate Miss Sobol, Article 209. And in fact, he used what he didn't have right to do in my line of work, which is to replicate to me in my line of work. So that's not what my colleague Jurjevic predicted, so he said what he wanted. I'm not asking you to give him a warning but let the public know how and what a colleague is used to come and express his opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51157	Thank you very much, colleague. I, before I gave you my words and I could and should have given you an immediate warning of the apparent abuse of the table and the debates of the last few minutes. But indeed, each one of us has a need to pollute with one another and accuse one another. Here's a colleague's answer, and an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Jurjevic, you've basically just continued to warn me about the problem of hiring disabled people and I'm still standing by what I said and I don't think I disqualified anyone at all, but I think and I'll repeat that this government has done nothing through the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, except that one administrative council at the end of last year singled out 9 million kunas of 21 million kuna. And I asked where those other 12 million kunas went. And why weren't they spent? Which is why, to this day, we don't have a head man at the Professional Rehabilitation and Disabilities Fund. In this regard, Madam Vice-President, in the absence of arguments some of you like to use disqualifications based on the words of the statement, so Mrs Babić Petricevic, the distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, the disqualification, began with your prime minister, and today after a year, you seem to have not read enough in the paper and heard what actually happened. I don't have any private company or me or my husband. You can see that from my card that's stored here, and maybe you should see how many of your members have such private companies and how many disabled people they hire.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51159	Thank you very much, colleague. This really has nothing to do with the replicas or the, this was the answer, but you did not answer to your colleague Babic-Peterevic. I'm asking you nicely to intend to take mutual action during this debate and, of course, disqualification. I hope we can discuss this normally, and I hope you'll discuss the subject. The truth is I said in my presentation that I hope we won't be cruel, that we'll discuss the problems of disabled people not only about the strategy, but this really wasn't about it anymore. My colleague, Ruža Lelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51160	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a comprehensive, comprehensive report ahead of us, and I'd say a systematically processed report, and I'd like to remind you that it's a 2003 and 2004 report, so when the government's qualifications are given here, it's insensitive, it's inefficient, then at least it's a shared responsibility of the former and current government. And then, I would also, responsibly argue that this government is sensitive and responsible and that if it had given us one meaning of a transparent report, and I would finally give a table where the number of measures that have been implemented, which are under way and which are unrealized. But we have to say that this National Strategy is actually an interdisciplinary area and that it is actually a continuous process. So no measure in my opinion can be realised but everything needs to be continuously realised, perfected and complemented further. BUT these are also mentioned here meanings are transparently listed all areas of activity by family, civil society, health, sport, recreation, education, professional rehabilitation and employment and work, housing, mobility, accessibility, pension insurance, social assistance and care and coordination, information. Measures are also mentioned in some areas, some of which have been implemented as we see to a larger extent, some to a lesser extent. In general, it is estimated that there are 10% people with disabilities. In Croatia, this percentage is approximately the same with 9.68 of which the largest number is made up of people who suffer from disability. Somewhere around 197,000 and 410, the data I own means about 109 thousand of them. It means disability since birth of 20 and, like, 25 grand. Then the result of traffic accidents is about 18 thousand, and special attention is certainly deserved by persons who are permanently immobilized persons of more than 12 thousand and mobile in a wheelchair of 7200. When I talk about all these data and the causes of disability, we can certainly act on all these causes by means of preventive measures and should certainly be clearly expressed in the National Strategy. BUT I would just look back at some of the particularly important areas for me about, in this report, which is involving persons with disabilities in the life of a local community where about 8 million 540 thousand 698 kuna was spent. People with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia have the right to participate actively in the creation of both social and social and cultural policies. And the process of achieving equal opportunities is the obligation of all factors of the social community, but also the obligation and persons with disabilities to assume their full responsibility. The bodies of the state administration in cooperation with local and regional self-government units and with disabled associations are obliged to participate actively in the involvement of persons with disabilities in the local community, respecting the right to choose persons with disabilities and to choose lifestyles according to their own criteria. The report states that funds from the State budget as well as assets from the part of the gambling revenue have been used. It is also stated that these funds are used to support the work of NGOs, persons with disabilities and those who act programically for the benefit of such persons. We meet to establish a number of associations, and it should certainly take account and control of where the funds are spent and how they are collected so as not to actually be an association purpose to themselves, and not to those who should be cared for. Then the funds were also used to directly support users, organise workshops and seminars, which is also very important. Then for a public awareness campaign. I consider this particularly important because the creation of a favourable environment and sensitivity of society towards people with disabilities, informing people with disabilities and sensitizing the public about the needs and possibilities of people with disabilities. The funds are also used for education and research, training and thus encourages the integration of persons with disabilities into the life of the local community. I would also refer to measure 7, which is an expert basis for introducing a personal assistant institute for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability. I find this measure equally important and this has been warned by people with disabilities, with a difficult degree of disability that, on the need of a personal assistant and I think there are those young people who choose to serve a military deadline but also those who receive social assistance and are working to be able to do part of it in this way through the institute means personal assistant. Then I particularly consider measure 9, which is deinstitutionalisation. We're here in the debate, there's no opinion on kindergartens for children who have multiple damages or how schooling is. I think, in fact, our future and that, in fact, in that direction, we're going to need to be involving all these people and these children in normal, normal kindergartens and normal schools as it is and not creating one special institution to be placed. So our goal is for people with disabilities to be placed in their families. To use the services of a half-day and daily stay, help and care in the house, family care, independent residence and other extra-institutional forms, not accommodation in institutions, and that accommodation in institutions should be only a final measure. We saw, the other day we discussed the system of social care reform and yes, and that reform goes in that direction. And it was also tasked that by the end of 2006, a balanced relationship should be achieved between the persons who are located in institutions and those who are certainly not in favour of this extra-institutional accommodation. Then we have here for me a very important information that has been provided that the Ministry of Health and Social Care has granted approval for the establishment of a home for independent housing to provide care over their own family means in Osijek, Bjelovar and Slavonski Brod and that an extended home for an independent residence in Zagreb. Then increased capacity to provide social care services within the entire day and half-day stay of users with physical or mental impairment in Kaštel Stafilic, in Čakovec and Zagreb. I expect a continuation of this process, and I think that is exactly the measure that we need to further develop, because this is more favourable for users, more humane and certainly cheaper for society. I'd also look back at measure 10. Introduces the right to care in the family. So patronage, professional support in a family with children or persons with disabilities, and I think it's a measure that we really need to support in the future. And I would certainly look back, and here in the debate several times, one of the most important measures, which is professional rehabilitation and employment and work. Rehabilitation and employment is one of the important ways to combat the exclusion of persons with disabilities from the community and to promote their independent life and dignity, and this requires not only the active mobilisation of social partners and ministries as we have pointed out here that the Ministry will solve all our issues but should certainly continue, strengthen and introduce some new measures, and strengthen existing ones, but we also need the mobilisation of the entire society. Here we have seen here and stated that a Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been established. We see that in 2004, he had 21,482,000 at his disposal, that he managed to spend 9 million, and I don't think that we can just take responsibility for the fund or some of the institutions, but there are certainly those who will help people to be able to help them engage in such processes. Thus, these funds were intended to co-finance the Programme for maintaining the employment of persons with disabilities and subsidies of legal entities registered for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. I also know institutions, and with some of them I have been working with for decades on our market, they hire most people with disabilities, and here they manage to keep themselves on the market and like this, and I think that this means institutions and such companies really need to be encouraged and able to function in such globalisation and such a ruthless market. The report also points out that the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as well as the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Croatian Employment Service and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are working on a plan for the development of professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities and I think it is one of the key issues. We have also created, also created legislative and institutional frameworks for the employment of persons with the support of a personal assistant and the realization of the possibility that institutions for professional rehabilitation as well as institutions that care for people with disabilities can intervene for the occasional and temporary work of persons with disabilities without the establishment of a working relationship. We adopted as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which should contribute to this. Self-employment needs to be encouraged. Set-up of crafts I think that this is the right way to go, and I would just say here that it is rare to say that people with disabilities and their families actually do not exercise their rights because of ignorance and ignorance that they belong to or do not exercise them in due time and then feel that they are neglected by society and those who need to care about them, but I will certainly support this report. [[Intruder: Collars time forgive.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51161	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations and replicas. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would have corrected that quote when my colleague said, under measure ten, a measure of patronage is being introduced in the family. It is true that measure 10 says the Ministry of Health and Social Care by the end of 2003 will draw up a legal solution regarding the introduction of new rights of care in the family or patronage. However, it also explains the reason for not implementing where it is said: "We note that the Social Care Act does not prescribe the right to care in the family for insufficient financial resources to be provided in the state budget." They are not secured, so the measure is not implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51163	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51164	Madam Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Lelic who said when she spoke about the Trust Fund for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities that 21 million kunas were not spent and that they were not guilty of the government's institutions. That's not true. It is the government institutions or the government, if you will, because the report says all year long: "It is only 30 June 2004. The government has appointed members of the Fund's Governing Council. They adopted the Statute on 16 July 2004. The government gave its consent to the Statute on 15 October 2004, and on 23 December at the end of the year they distributed 9 million kuna." And how is it not the fund's fault, or the government's fault?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51165	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Škulić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51166	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know where I'd start, from the ignorance and ignorance of the people with the disability and their parents. I don't know who's to blame for that ignorance and ignorance. I think institutions are obliged to provide information on the rights of disabled persons, and not when you enter a circle you no longer know where you're going to start or where you're going to end up. As far as kindergartens are concerned, integration in any case, however, is the fact that our kindergartens do not have educated staff working, that no profession is respected, that experts from the education-rehabilitation college are not employed. Also, I would draw attention to young people in retirement homes with numbers and letters somewhere around 70 kuna per month receiving. And also about patronage. What to say if in the Zadar County area, therefore in some areas of Zadar County for a month a nurse has not entered any house persons who are users of these services because HZZ and the houses providing the service cannot agree on work. As far as the fund is concerned, I think there's a lot that's been said about the fund. I just want to know who's gonna answer when and who's gonna answer. The criteria and even self-employment have been set up, but with a person with disabilities having to work alone and then the retrograde fund will repay her funds. I don't know who that is, what the point is. So, who's messing with who? As regards the Ministry of Finance, which is, with the import of cars and the release of VAT on imports of cars for people with disabilities, that is, with the government's decision to make, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51167	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of MP Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51168	Well, dear colleague Škulić, at the beginning of the exhibition, I said this is an interdisciplinary area. It actually affects all the pores of life and that it's a process that's continuous that needs to last and perfect all the time. None of us, I couldn't just finish what you said about information and everything together. None of us can say that we are fully satisfied with the measures that have been implemented, but a transparent report has been given with a clear statement of what has not been done and what needs to be done. But certainly a positive shift has been made. And as for information, here's what I'm saying, I haven't been able to say that it's important to provide some quick and accessible information. We have seen how many measures there are 70 measures, some of which are implemented more or less, and so it means being available and able to inform people with disabilities and certainly there must be one general interest in it, and I believe that there is an interest in it. So, they must have some available and fast information and therefore we also need the education of experts in order to raise the quality of work and as simple and as relevant as possible, as well as informing people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51169	Thank you very much, colleague. She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51170	Thank you very much. In fact, counterpart Lelic mentioned the possibility of introducing a civil service military deadline as assistants of the highest type and degree of disability. The idea as such would be very good, but what it is to implement if criteria and conditions are yet to be developed for the performance of the personal assistant's affairs. So it would remain the same as many of these measures only declarative because it is impossible to implement before these criteria and conditions and to adopt an appropriate legal solution are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51171	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of MP Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51172	Well esteemed colleagues, so surely with this report of ours and this thing like I said, the whole process doesn't end. This is one report for 2003 and 2004, and we will see what will happen in 2005, and we expect that also normal in 2006, and we expect that all these projects that are not realised will be realised and the introduction of a personal assistant why this process could not be launched. I don't see the reasons, these young men who have committed themselves to civilian military service are one of the options of doing military service in this way and I say, this is one process that lasts, continuously goes on and on and on. However, no one has been released from this process and promotion. Each of us is in charge of helping. Well, I think Parliamentarians should be most involved in that. Therefore, if the entire society does not participate in this, the ministry and all these institutions will be able to make less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51173	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51174	Honorable vice presidents, respected government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have been discussing the report for several hours, the implementation of a national single policy strategy with people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, and we have heard a lot of things and the fundamental question is whether we are satisfied with this report. It's written in language as reports are written. We can have a grudge that came a little late. The excuses are as long as the authorities have cleared up, there's been some time lost, and that's the same fact that we all need to understand. However, there is also much to be said and what we should be content with. The figures are listed and 70 measures 1/4 are said to have been implemented. But it is also stated what has not been done, what is ongoing and what is to be done. It's good for me, too, because it's been warned about what needs to be done. And give them some deadlines. It's a good thing it's defined that now we finally know who the coordinator of all these actions is, it's the Ministry of the Family. It gives important co-operation with NGOs, that the issue of volunteers has been raised, and now in this debate it has proved necessary to regulate the rule there as well. So we have to join it. So now we're practically back at one intersection when we're talking about deinstitutionalisation and institutionalization. The trend is to go into deinstitutionalisation, however, it is evident that some institutions must be strengthened, that they must act precisely on the well-being of our citizens with special needs. And now that we've analyzed all this, then I'd go back to the basic question why we're discussing it in general. We are today discussing a category of people, our fellow citizens, who are making a lot more effort than anyone else to achieve everyday life. So it's said in 10% of the population, it's worth the attention. However, I would say that many more people are directly involved, that they are parents and that practically 1/4 of Croatia is directly faced with solving problems, everyday problems of people with special needs. And I would therefore go back to that basic question that concerns these very individuals that a little more seriously in our advice will work out that feeling for them, to face the fact that they wake up every morning and wonder how today will pass. But also on their parents' issues, when it comes to children, because with the hard question of parents, what happens when we're not with our children? And that's why the institutions of the state have to be at the height of the task, they have to ensure these people are safe in their future and every day ahead of them. And we have to help them here. This is actually a test of our conscience when we discuss this problem. This is where we touch the basic and fundamental principle of every society that is solidarity, how ready we are in practical life every day to implement not these measures, but to respect our conscience, our own conscience. Whether we spend every day what is written in the laws, whether we are able to see on those days, I would say, the most common things, on marked parking spaces for disabled people, who are on them all stopping. Are we one of them? And finally, I think this kind of debate in the Parliament, but also the debates and the report and the monthly and quarterly in the ministries that are in charge of carrying out this all that's drawn out in the strategy is kind of, I'd like to identify it with the church bell. The bell reminds us every day of something we should do that day. So let this debate be a bell for us all that every year we have to discuss this problem in the right way, contribute with our proposals to improve the life of people with special needs and then I think we might just be satisfied. Regardless of all the shortcomings in this report, even all the justified criticisms I support this report and hope that next year we will be more pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51175	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have three replicas. First, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51176	Comrade Bačić, this is not a test of each of us's conscience, so that on this day when the government report is discussed we must each dive into our souls and see what we have personally done to the disabled. It's not even a bell that should remind us of that. This is a very concrete report by the government on the commitments imposed by this House. And on that exam, look, on the test of our conscience, we can't all pass or fall. There are 152 of us here, so that 152 of us can pass this exam, the condition with the disabled in this country won't improve until the government begins to meet its obligations. And that's what the government doesn't meet. And let's not blur things out now, let's not cloud the water now, let's not talk about the conscience of this or that MP, but let's say why not do what had to be done, who was responsible for it, what condens would be borne, and what we can do is make the next government report not a lot of these scandalous holes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51177	Replica response, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51178	Well, I mean, I've said my opinion about how I'm experiencing this. And I don't think that we as individuals can protect ourselves either behind big strategies or behind the law and let someone else handle it. I also said that everyone has to do their part of the job, including the ministry and the government in general, but I was talking about something else. I was saying that an individual, so each of us can't hide behind the law and think he did everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51179	Thank you very much. Next replica, MP Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Bačić that it is indeed a test of conscience for each of us in society. But there was also a question of what was done at all levels, so let me answer actually, since today is the report that was made in 2003 and 2004, and what certain ministries were doing then should be pointed out for the public in fact what really happened since the new government took over the management of the ministries and then should be highlighted when it comes to not removing the barriers, it should be said that it is not true because the barriers are being removed. There are programmes specifically signed with cities signed by the ministry in amounts here only for 2004 million and 400 thousand kuna, 2005 million and 500 thousand kuna, in 2004 with 9 Croatian cities, in 2005, further cities also, I will only list some of them Beli Manastir, Belisce, Đurđevac, Novska, Slatina, Valpovo, Virovitica, Vukovar, Pakrac, Sisak, Vinkovci, Split, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Zadar, Slavonski Brod. So these are concrete amounts where the barriers are removed. Further, as far as education is concerned, we have programmes to help families of blind founders and high school students for whom 500 thousand kuna were allocated. Further only in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction something that is extremely important and what has been done, which is the new Construction Act actually built in, and as far as all persons with disabilities are concerned from that day when the new law has been passed, which is that in particular all the structures that must be designed and built and all buildings of course public and business must be built in such a way that persons with reduced immobility are provided with a smooth approach, movement, stay etc. Construction, housing and residential and business purposes must also be designed and built so that their easy adjustment for access is possible. So a lot's been done. A lot, really, a lot of things. Of course we're not happy because there's a lot more to do but there's no denying what's been done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51181	Your time is up. Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51182	I thank my colleague for actually expanding into his replica all the actions that have taken place so far when it comes to disabled people and caring about them. I'd just add that it's hard always in the laws to predict all possibilities. We roughly divide the disabled into four categories, but there are inter-categories, and if not only the blind, there are mixing and deaf, and all of this is to be taken into account. We only face these problems in practical life. I, from my own experience, know that I was precisely in my position at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, precisely with that category of people working because they came to complain, they couldn't fit into any category. So no matter how we pass the laws, in each case, there will always be the possibility of complementarity, upgrade and improvement. So this replica just shows that we have to solve the problem every day regardless of once-in-a-lifetime legal obstacles, we need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51183	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're not discussing our conscience test here because it's not about whether or not I'm going to park in a disabled place, it's about whether there's enough space for people with disabilities. It's not about whether or not I'm going to translate a blind person across a pedestrian crossing, it's about whether or not that pedestrian crossing is sounded, whether or not that pedestrian crossing has a cartoon tape to get over it. It's about a report where the government, through the strategy we adopted here, had tasks to do. That report says, most things, I've listed only five of those that matter. One is, it's not in the jurisdiction, so we're walking the jurisdiction. A program was built based on when it would be implemented. Based task force, let's set up a task force to forget the problem. The collected data and the most important thing, there's no money in the budget. We're talking about, we're talking about a report that contains 46 of those questions of this data, so this is not being carried out. Not that it's in progress, but it's just at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51185	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Stjepan Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51186	In fact, I can only repeat what I told Mr. Stazic. I have approached this problem in this way, because I believe that as individuals, we too must remind ourselves of some of our obligations. So it's not enough just to pass laws, it's not enough and make someone do something if it's not implemented, and we're doing the laws in a practical life. Therefore, there may be enough room for people with disabilities. You know, I'm in that sense. I thank you for reminding the state that institutions have to do their part of the job. I absolutely support that, but the point of my presentation was to remind us as individuals that there is no such good law that gives results of itself, depending on who we are implementing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51187	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Bisserka Perman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is known that the number of people with disabilities in the world is large and growing. Especially in societies and countries with a higher degree of economic development in which we want to be classified, all segments of the functioning of society adapt in a way that can also be made available to people with disabilities. The general assessment, the report on the implementation of the national strategy and the single policy for people with disabilities, is that all the envisaged changes are taking place too slowly, and we have already heard that some measures have not been implemented in any way, and unfortunately they are not being implemented today. Since the holder of all measures is not one institution and most of it is the cooperation of several institutions, I believe that delaying the implementation of certain measures does not have any justification. I'll look back on just a few concrete measures. For example, since the end of 2005, the implementation of measures seven in the field of family and civil society activities, i.e. that by the end of 2004, an expert basis for the establishment of a personal assistant institute for persons with the most difficult type and degree of disability and the proposed appropriate legal solution, could be said to be at the very beginning. Namely, the established working group is only at the stage of drawing up criteria and setting out the conditions for the performance of the personal assistant's affairs. Those of us who are fortunate to have no limiting problems such as disabled persons should do everything in our power to help families whose members are the most disabled, to provide their member with the best possible care and quality of life. In situations like this, every day is important, and I therefore do not see why the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity is delaying the proposal for a legal solution. Is it really even three years to implement this measure? The degree of humanity of a society is also measured by taking care of its members who need social assistance and protection. In this case, our society has gone deaf to the needs of those who really need this help. Looking back on the area of health, sport and recreation, I would like to highlight measures 7 and 8 already mentioned by my colleague Škulić and my colleague Stazić, which relate to extracurricular, sports and other activities of children and young people with developmental difficulties, i.e. programmes for the inclusion of children and young people with developmental difficulties and activities, as well as to ensuring the availability of school spaces for them. A committee for extracurricular sports activities of children and youth with developmental difficulties, which 2 says has, quote: "adopted", I stress this agreement, "to approach the creation of a pilot of extracurricular sports activities programmes". I wonder what the Committee had to agree on. Well, that's exactly why it was appointed. Furthermore, it says that it will offer some new sports that appear in certain institutions and that there have been appropriate programmes as well as criteria adapted to groups of difficulties, but it does not say anywhere in which it has reached. In view of the fact that no funds were spent for these measures in 2004, neither the budget adopted nor its rebalancing, nothing seems to have been achieved, so they remained only at the declarative level. It's the same situation this year. A little less than a million kunas are foreseen by the 2006 budget we brought in last week, but how much of it will be realized only to be seen. In the area of housing, mobility and accessibility, I would also refer to measure 5 "to ensure accessibility in the tourism system". We like to use the slogan "Croatia, a small country for a great vacation" with the same value not for disabled people. Let us take the fictional example of an Austrian citizen, considering that these days being an Austrian citizen is somehow trending. So, an Austrian citizen who moves with the help of wheelchairs and who decided to go to the beautiful sea. He comes by train to Zagreb's main station, but there's a surprise waiting for him. Steps, hard to match and for people who can walk, in case they've traveled with more suitcases and for someone in a wheelchair inadmissible. Well, that doesn't have to worry us, we Croats are good people. There will already be some karst Croat who will take him to the station building and help him continue his journey to the sea. I also said something about how we discussed the government's work on the development of Croatian railways. But to return to our hypothetical Austrian tourist disabled. We just have to wish him luck that the hotel in the place he wants to go has secured access to the disabled. I won't even mention the beach and the restaurants. Fortunately, this story is fictional, but also very similar to that of a real event recently published in the "Evening List" since 4 November this year. In fact, the gentleman in question from Zagreb had to carry his guests from Romania who are moving with wheelchairs to the train to carry the stairs through a passenger to the platform. It is interesting to comment on this article by a reader who says: "In Croatia more people worry whether Duje Draganja will go to Qatar or not than about the problems of people with special needs", the quote concluded. And there's actually our problem. It is not enough to say that people with disabilities should be given equal access to all the opportunities offered by modern society, and when it comes to moving from word to action then responsible institutions fail. But it's not just the institutions, it's the responsibility that lies on each and every one of us individually. Does a series of laws really have to be passed that will force us to treat people with disabilities more humanely? Whether it was necessary, for example, to explicitly state in the new Construction Act that when reconstructing buildings of public purpose, the space is adapted to persons with special needs, with penalties for such a failure of 25 to 100 thousand kuna. Wouldn't an investor have to do it without the law that obliges him to do it? Even disabled people sometimes have to visit facilities for public purposes. I think we need to change the view that the problems facing disabled people in everyday life are just their own and their families' problems. This is also our duty and responsibility, and the first step that would show that we will move from word to action, we MPs in the Croatian Parliament is to rush the government to come forward with proposals of concrete legal solutions that will, in everyday life and indeed, not just declareably improve the status of persons with special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51189	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and one correction. Mr. Pero Kovacevic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm telling my esteemed colleague that the criticism needs to be impartial and fair. I'll give you a concrete example, you were talking about the Duja Draganja case. Last night I was at the City Association in the City of Zagreb, the Association of Blind and Low-sighted. The honorary members of the Association are Mr. Mayor of the City of Zagreb Milan Bandić, Mr. Šoštar and none of them came. This is their relationship to the association, and interestingly they were in Bratislava and the mayor and all the leaders, and they can't come to the Association of the City blind and undersighted. So let's be realistic and concrete. And that proves the relationship between both sides. Say, it means the truth that such things are not only in this government but there are also where you are in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51191	Second replica, Mr. Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If an Austrian tourist and with ironic remarks arrives in Croatia these days, I'm not sure he needs beaches.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51193	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51194	Mr. President. My colleagues, surely there are examples and related to the Austrian tourist but it is not true that there is nothing to do with people who are in such a situation. As already said here today, we ourselves must do something to make these laws enforceable. However, I must disprove you, it is not true, and I will repeat something I have already repeated to your colleague. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is constantly working on marking hotel rooms and other rooms with relief symbols and sound devices for people with visual impairment, information messages for deaf persons. Accessibility and adaptation of the interior of facilities and accessibility to other tourist facilities, and since you are from this region, there are already several hotels in Istria and in Kvarner that are adapted to exactly what needs, disabled people who expect more of such hotels to happen in Croatia. And those people won't have any problems like they've been before. I can't exactly know the names of the hotel. It's written in means of public communication. I know it was on a round table about tourism about the names of these hotels, and I have no right to advertise those hotels, and I know they have at least two.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51195	Thank you very much. We'll end this morning's session. Resume session is at 3:00. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic in the debate. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51196	We'll continue with the afternoon session. Dear Representative Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what our relationship with disabled people best proves here's the afternoon session of how many of us MPs are present. Some of us were a little bit more in the morning when it was a television broadcast, but this fact also suggests a lot of it. I won't say much, but first of all I have to look back at this part that we in Croatia have a lot of national strategies, these strategies, those strategies. We have many different reforms, and the situation in each area is getting worse. Obviously, the purpose of all these various strategies is simply to fulfil the form and when we look at this strategy that is in place, it means that the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 means that it is not clear from the title itself, or it could be judged that the strategy is only valid until 31 December of this year, although the text says that the strategy applies and applies in 2006. But the worst of all, this strategy is still relatively good because of the fact that both the deadlines and the holders in which certain measures were required had to be implemented, but the sad fact is that we here also have to agree until we put in place a question of responsibility for the implementation of the measures and those which are meant by the National Strategy exactly. It means that the National Strategy was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 16 January 2003, and it is true that measures and deadlines have been established and certain holders were to be followed by the relevant ministries but we now see here that we are getting a report for 2003 and 2004. First of all, he's late for the report, but that wouldn't be so worrying because it's worrying more about the fact that many measures should have been implemented long ago. I'm just going to look back at this part of what I've been saying about the bad results you've achieved not to say the frighteningly bad results you've achieved about disabled children, and this is about 12 measures relating to schooling that irresponsible behavior can only count for you. So first, the first measure was pedagogical standards for pre-school education, primary schooling and secondary schooling, which includes students with developmental difficulties. The deadline was the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports by the end of March 2003. So by the end of March 2003, this measure has not been realised today, but interestingly, it says in the results achieved: "A new pedagogical standard for preschool education has been developed, which was sent to the Croatian Government's Office of Law on 22 March 2005 and the opinion of the Law Office is expected since 8 April 2005." I mean, the paper's really putting up with it, and nobody's answering anything. Here's another measure, "Study on the Reasons of High School Education". The deadline was until the end of 2004. In what the Ministry of Science has taken, it says: "The collected data on leaving primary and secondary schools, processing of data in progress." Further, the modernisation of curricula and programmes and rehabilitation programmes. The deadline was until the end of 2004 and in response we have that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is considered incompetent. So what kind of answer is that? If the Croatian Parliament has determined that the Ministry should do so, then it is not inadmissible, is it? Let's keep reading. We have a child tracking system with developmental difficulties. That's also measure 3, 5. Veli: "The Ministry of Science, Education and Sport in cooperation with local and regional self-government units will establish a monitoring system by the end of 2003. Nothing's done. Here. That's the saddest thing about it. So we have 70, it's a total of 70 measures, it's realized 12 says here. It's up to 46, unrealized 12. But for many of these 70 measures, the 70 measures indicated here have long passed. It's been up and down for the former authorities, so this is what I've been saying. It's passed for these authorities, and no one's answering anything. No one's answering anything. So I suggest even sending this report to the state's attorney because there's a question and criminal liability for me means unconscious behavior of duty or failure to do what's supposed to be done. Because as long as I'm here for a responsible person, I'm not saying it's always the minister's answer. It could be an assistant, it could be someone who's a member, we have all kinds of different things here and the coordination that monitors and monitors it, but no one is responsible and the measures are not implemented. So as long as we act this way, we do not ask who is responsible in the end for not implementing this National Programme, and this National Programme was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In the end, we see that next year we will get a new National Programme. But what happens to these national programs if no one implements them, if there's going to be a dead letter on paper? Therefore, I cannot say that I accept this report but I can only take it to the knowledge and with a message that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking action against all here who are designated by both the former authorities and this authority who are responsible for implementing the measures and are not implementing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51198	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51199	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think we're all in the debate today that we've had so far, and we'll see after my debate whether, and including me, it's a little dishonest. Today we are talking about the rights of all Croatian citizens to an equally satisfying quality of life. Now I'm asking you, can this debate of ours be followed by all Croatian citizens? I can't. Deaf citizens of Croatia cannot follow this debate. So neither in the morning when it was a TV broadcast nor today. Have we made it possible, as a legislative authority, for all citizens, to make this strategy that we are talking about today available to all Croatian citizens? No, I don't. Because it's just printed in the People's Newspaper, it's not printed on Braille's letter. Thus, the blind people could not find out what they had read or what someone else had read to them unless they had otherwise done so to private channels. Can a blind person get to the Parliament? No, I don't. There is no line of guides around Zagreb that would allow them to reach the Parliament. Can a blind person get to the government? No, I don't. There must be a lot to be said for Zagreb's pentrates on cars, on curbs, and on the other hand to get to the Parliament. So responsibility is really on all of us, not what counterpart Bacic said moral responsibility because I think individuals have done a lot. But to us as a Parliament as well as to the government lies responsibility. In the government as an executive government, and in the Parliament why at least what belongs to it is to make it possible, for example, that all Croatian citizens can reach the highest legislative and representative body on their own, simply did not do so. I will be in my debate instead of discussing this strategy because it is a factoring document that says what someone has done and what anyone has not done with unconvincing reasons why someone has not done something, but look at the problems of some groups of our fellow citizens who do not have a particular need to say that they are disabled or mentally retarded persons or persons with a physical disability with special needs. No, every Croatian citizen has equal needs. He has a need to move around, he has a need to come to some place, he has a need to read a book, he has a need to consume some other content, get involved in culture, be a tourist, etc. etc. Unfortunately, we are not making it possible for now, and the problem is that the most important document relating to this large group of our citizens is too slow to implement. In preparation for this debate, I spoke with numerous associations of people with disabilities and, for example, the Association of Blind and Disabilities warned me that unfortunately there is no way to resolve the issue of compensation for other people’s assistance, that the range of compensations from 280 to 3800 kuna depending on how someone became blind. So that child who was born blind has the right to compensation for someone else's help of 280 kuna. When he finishes primary school, that fee rises to 400 kuna. So why? What happens when someone graduates from elementary school to get a 120-dollar bigger fee. The person who became blind in the Homeland War has the right to 3800 kuna, the person from World War II at 3200 kuna, the person who stayed in the workplace blind has an unaccounted for 800 kuna. Is not a blind person a blind person? Doesn't she have equal needs and equal difficulties to achieve it? And now even the people who are unfortunately blind were born we give them such a small fee and we make it virtually impossible for them to have their right, a fundamental right to education. I can't buy books with that amount, and then we've got the Vinko Beck Center on the other side, doing books on a braid letter. However, there are a number of people who do this too little, capacities are too small for secondary education and we are not able to provide all high school students who are blind or undersighted to get textbooks on the braj letter. It's something we need to talk about. Unfortunately, when we discussed the budget, there was no interest or willingness to provide more resources to employ a few more people at the Vinko Beck Centre or to buy more machines to do so. It's the same thing with parking tags. You know now the blind suffer our hasty decision of zero prominence. The Road Safety Act should be amended. The law does not change because of this and of course there is no change in the law that would allow blind persons or persons driving blind persons to park in a place marked for people with disabilities. The same thing is of course with other groups of people with disabilities. They simply cannot ensure that they meet their needs independently or uninterruptedly, the need for the quality of life as the rest of us do. It's a job problem. You know, there's been a story here and it's not this, and it's not this. I'll tell you an example of the town of Koprivnica. We hired 12 disabled people out of four deaf people. Today, at the moment, the Croatian Employment Service owes the institutions in the town of Koprivnica who have hired deafer persons compensation from the second month. Now, what would happen when an entrepreneur takes such a step and hires a disabled person. How he will pay his salary, if the Croatian Employment Service gave him the last fee with a second month, and the minister here says anyone who says the state owes him should come. Well, the state owes all the incentives for second month employment, including what has been particularly done, and that people with disabilities have been employed, such as deaf people working in a museum or library, and someone else has to bear a burden for that. You know, there were the same stories here about removing architectural barriers. Yeah, there's something going on. Really mail does something, hotels do something, they do something. But look, here was the question of an Austrian tourist. So let's let the Austrian tourist go. Tell me, how will a person with a physical disability from Vukovar go to sea on a Split train? That's impossible. Because there's one ramp to get the cart on the train and there's three cars on HH which are adapted to the wheelchair. And you must especially order a car to attach it to the composition that will come and enable that, therefore, the person in the wheelchair can be transported by Croatian railways. Croatian railways are state-owned. There's no reason for cars and ramps to be made. The ramp costs about 30,000 kuna, but we're not even train stations adapted, or removed architectural barriers so that people, all citizens, can move. So also those who have physical disability and those who do not see and those who do not hear and all the others. You have a problem, for example, people who have multiple sclerosis. They cannot provide money, or the HZZO will not be paid for by interferon. It is a large amount that they simply cannot bear alone from their own salaries or pensions anyway. They are being reduced to the possibility of rehabilitation or are no longer allowed to refer to rehabilitation to spas. There's a problem with a new rule on orthopedic aids since 1.1.2006 where they're drastically cutting non-rights, it's not about rights. You know, if you tell someone he can't get crutches, then it's not real. It's something that gives him such a normal life. And these are all the questions that need to be discussed here, and we need to draw attention and debate on specific issues that need to be addressed, and of course we need to force whoever is responsible, which is the government and individual ministries to do so specifically. The report itself is simply one factography and about it is wasting time to discuss whether someone has written something or not, should turn the whole story proactively and tell, give the tasks clear and concrete tasks that the Government has to ensure that all Croatian citizens have equal quality of life, including persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51200	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51201	A small correction to our colleague who claimed that this debate today, unfortunately, cannot follow a deaf person. With even greater grief, we can conclude that this important subject cannot be followed by those who have a very good hearing, so those who have no harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51202	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51203	Well, if it isn't, it's a correction to an incorrect assumption, because a colleague said...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51204	Dear Representative Mršić did not say that those who hear cannot listen. But he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51205	No, my colleague said this. Please let me repeat. Unfortunately, this debate cannot be heard by those who are hearing damage, deaf. That's right. That is incorrect in the sense that even those who hear it can’t hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51206	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51207	Mr. Mršić, you can hear me from without this microphone. You've kept one demagogue letter, which is the reason for that. Tell me the different fees. I'd very much like to increase your fee and make it a lot more. And it's true that we are constantly working on making it possible for these disabled people to actually make living conditions as high as possible. But will you tell me where you live, it's really, it's really a question, and if you're going to tell us how it was in the last council meeting regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51208	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51209	Comrade Pasecky, I really invite you to come to Koprivnica, come to Koprivnica and see where I live and see and see how all citizens live in Koprivnica, including persons with disabilities. But you explain to me why someone who was born blind has a compensation for other people's help of 280 kuna, and when he graduates from primary school he gets 40 kuna, and someone who was in the Homeland War or World War II has 3 thousand 200, or 3 thousand 800 kuna. He's someone else's help is the fee a person gets to do a job for him that he can't do. A blind person, for example, can't iron, should pay for it. Does the one born blind have a lower price of ironing laundry than the one who went blind in the Homeland War? The thing is, there's no colleague Pasecky here, and that story of the century 7 is not gonna get us anywhere, it's not gonna get us anywhere, you know. Turn to the future, do not look at who hasn't done anything but tell them what you can do for people with disabilities in your immediate environment to ensure them the quality of life that you as a parliamentary representative have.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51210	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51211	A colleague Mršić here cited a very regrettable fact that persons, persons with disabilities, whether their employer, here he cited an example of the local self-government unit, so the state is precisely on behalf of these employees not paying off from the 2nd month nothing. And that's right. However, the facts are even sadder, that the state, that the government that has sworn to restore dignity to defenders in the Galovac municipality, for example, and elsewhere does not pay local self-government units for employees. So, finally, we leave ourselves to dignity, especially those who have proved their dignity. It is now on the government's move to prove its credibility, and ultimately its dignity when it is so gladly called and paid due in respect of the failure of employees of disabled people and defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51212	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51213	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to rephrase my colleague, Snotty. By the way, Koprivnica has been declared a city of friends with disabilities because of its accessibility and treatment of its fellow citizens, so equally. Otherwise, your colleague Mršić was wrong when you said that Croatian railways have 2 cars that are accessible to people with disabilities. They are affordable but only on the move to Dugo Res, then they move to another power system and in that car we are left without electricity, without heating and without using the toilet, and I personally felt twice when I was walking towards Split so that these cars only function from Zagreb to Duga Resa.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51214	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, on this subject, I will only mention three areas, three problems, three things that have already been present in this House, and they relate to the realisation of the national strategy. And the other day when it was an international day for disabled people somewhere, and for example in Čakovec, the disabled association warned, and they saw what it meant when the traffic signs were placed low and the blind persons going down the sidewalk, they hit their head with a pedestrian path because they simply couldn't tap them, because they couldn't believe that a sign board would put a foot, foot, foot, foot, foot 60. Trying to find out what it was about, I went to study legal regulations and came up with a rule on traffic signs where there really is no provision that the one who sets the sign must raise him to height without the blind person hitting him in the head. I wanted to believe that, say, the secretary of state and the secretary of state, which is not in the Chamber, had an impact on their colleagues in the second resolution of the state, and that they would warn them of such a provision of the regulation that it would not have to be the one to warn the authorities of sublaws and that the socially sensitive secretaries or ministers of their colleagues in charge of traffic could persuade them to make that regulation clear that the traffic sign set on the walking path should not be at the height of the blind person hitting the head with it. But it's obviously not because no one did and I'm still looking for ways to act on sublegal regulations, to people bureaucrats who write these regulations to understand and that blind people can move around public surfaces, which is good, without other people's help, which is even better, and a little effort and effort if they did, they might be prevented from ending up in an emergency when such an accident occurs. You may, on your own account, help me on behalf of the promoter if you do not know, do not want or are unable to act on your fellow State Secretary in Transport how to change that rule. I think the negotiations with the European Union have nothing to do with it and that we can do it ourselves. The second is the fact, my fear and the infidelity that when the government wrote this report in the House in no way did she say in any way that she had learned that blind persons, blind students had no right to textbooks, which is true, that blind children who go into the regular system of education and by the bill we read last week about textbooks in the law were not mentioned at all. So your resolutions had this law in coordination and nobody in social care and those who cared for disabled persons did not warn their colleagues from the educational authority that there was not a single provision in this law on textbooks for blind students, nor was it proper in terms of giving consent to a textbook written on Braille's letter, let alone on the obligation of the state to help parents buy such textbooks. I said that one such textbook cost three thousand kunas by quoting or giving the price of a geographical textbook for the eighth grade of elementary school, the State Secretary warned me that he encountered a textbook for the 8000 kuna high school. One class, one class. But there's nothing about this. But the law was last week at the debate the government didn't order the Ministry of origin, and you obviously didn't warn anyone that blind children had to read special textbooks, and we're going to make that law, hopefully. Therefore, this national strategy has not been adopted in order to describe in the implementation report that we are all doing everything, and such simple little things as one Transport Sign Regulation brought by your colleague, proposed to your minister, cannot affect the change. You can't, or you haven't, and you've done that to warn them that, say, blind people at pedestrian crossings are cut into asphalts or cubes, which he can tap with a stick and follow to know that he's sure he's crossed the pedestrian crossing. And there's no such thing in our rulebook, and it could be. And then he's a liability for investors and those who maintain roads, and without that you know there's no order because no one has to stick to him. And I'll finish the next one. Labour disability, I hope that this category of disabled persons is also the subject of a care report for disabled persons. Labour disability those who are retired, disabled workers who are not yet retired and disabled workers who are in the world of work. So, gentlemen of the State Secretarys, I ask and remind you, on November 19th 2004, so this assembly of Parliament has reached two conclusions, and I will quote them to you, because I suppose you didn't know about them. One point is: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to draw up a full analysis of the material situation of disabled workers and to deliver for discussion in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible." The president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Seks, was signed on November 19th 2004. The second point of this conclusion is: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt, as soon as possible, sublegal acts implementing the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of this law." It is now November, December 2005, that neither Government has given the Parliament, but you have provided a report on the implementation of the national strategy. If you'd printed it in color and corrected it, it would have looked nicer at press conferences. These are concrete things, behind this are concrete people, and they don't need a report on the implementation of the national strategy, but let's make a decision as to whether they're full citizens of this country or whether we're going to keep them on what they are and whether we're going to make them as a particularly large number group who ended up there not by their own will but by the laws and government regulations, finally give them what the Council of Government committed on 19 November 2004. I am particularly apostropheic because the Alliance of the Associations of Persons with Disabilities is asking you, please, gentlemen, please realize these conclusions of the Assembly that Parliament is discussing this so that they may have the opportunity to give their opinion on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51216	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51217	So not only is counterpart Lesar a problem in the Signing Regulation, the question arises whether the state roads are accessible to all Croatian citizens. I do not think that, not only those made for former governments or some former governments, but today the state roads and highways that are built are not, are not built in a way, are not designed or built to be accessible to all Croatian citizens. Because it's still not an obligation for all traffic lights to have, to be wired, to give a sound signal. And as for education, really the question of blind children and blind citizens in legal education, or imagine right to access information that this House has also brought, it is not just about textbooks because it is about that "Vinko Beg" therefore fail to make as many books as it takes for blind children, but you see also the Ministry of Education has no understanding to buy a device that converts the text into sound. So it's an adaptor to a computer that can then turn nice text into a sound, even those schools that have managed to integrate blind children into a regular program. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education does not want to support them but must then involve associations of citizens, local self-government, parents to buy such devices and provide a truly fundamental right for all, which is the right to education.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51218	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51219	Thank you, Mršić, for reminding me of another problem, which is information that is available to blind people because of the development of technology. It's not an adaptor, it's called a speech unit that converts text from the Internet and computer into speech, and by scanning the blind person's documents, they can also see the text for us to convert and print on Braille's printer and the price of such a computer set, so usually a computer, Braille printer, scanner and voice unit in Croatia costs 60 thousand kuna. Sixty thousand kuna and you pay VAT to get along, that's all. And now try to imagine a parent with a blind child who goes to regular school, who allows him to see the workbook for us through his computer and converts it to Braille's letter, performs his homework, and returns it to the normal text of the teacher to control. Sixty thousand kuna is the price. There has never been a single word of this in any report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51220	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51221	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm only convinced that after this debate, there are enough people in this House who would like to change the situation to be better, and I hope that this debate will actually lead to that. That's one thing. The second thing, I'm also convinced that this side of our colleagues and colleagues to support the government right now, would certainly see this report in other eyes and assess it more positively, I'm convinced. I'm even inclined to believe, not to believe, but to believe, that I haven't seen a more transparent, clearer and better-made report in a long time. I'm not saying that things, that the measure of things is right, that the issues of people with disabilities are solved and a good report is being made. However, in order to get rid of anything at all, it is a prerequisite for us to look at the situation, evaluate it, and actually make a plan of measures that we do further. So this is absolutely absolutely, this report has achieved that goal and the government has done a great deal with this report in my view. In the context of the market economy and global processes, the government should take up Croatia, the social state and the state of social justice with a view to strengthening the position of individuals in society and removing all obstacles in its path. It is therefore important to provide support from government level to disabled persons in order to overcome difficulties in relation to existing health barriers and obstacles to duties. The Government's challenges on this path, i.e. those policies, are how to encourage the participation of persons with disabilities in the life of the community, how to promote their rights to personal integrity, how to continuously improve the legislative regulation that stands for achieving the objectives set, and how to secure resources. So all of what we're talking about and what we're calling for here and all of those instruments that we're talking about as progress that you've been making here and you're saying progress towards achieving these goals for people with disabilities isn't from the beginning of the world. People met with the development of different technologies, and people met with them by increasing the number of people with disabilities. Of course, there's only one person in the world, if only one person with disabilities, then there wouldn't be a question of traffic lights, or barriers, etc. Therefore, we live in a society that simply requires us to change and adapt. I'm not going to tell us anything new, and if I met myself for the first time with a traffic light that has that sound of opportunity, which tells us in fact which persons, blind persons, indicate that I can cross the road abroad, I'm not with us. We didn't make it up. So that's some kind of innovation that we have to adopt and so do all the others. What instruments of government or all of us are at our disposal to actually achieve what we are talking about. There are no others down the ministry, down the institutions, down the society as a whole who simply must have a sense of these issues and open their eyes to this issue. My colleague Mršić spoke remarkablely just before you said and I really support that someone who is blind, someone who is deaf, etc. that he must have some kind of guidance to come to this Parliament. However, we in this House but without any idea of any other thought we must say that you would see to come, that you might come. I agree, but that you could come here to this House and that you could benefit from it when it comes to this House we all have to see first and foremost. So we're just saying let's see. We can't tell ourselves to see if we have one report I repeat is an extraordinary review of the situation and we declare it actually a pamphlet. Therefore, if we really want to help disabled people, we must stop seeing for ourselves what is seen and what is seen can and thus make a contribution. Different ministries from the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity, science, education, sports, Institute of Education, etc. are involved in solving these problems. I would just refer to the rope on measures related to programs of health, sports and recreation. I believe it is very good to carry out continuous prevention with a view to promoting health and preventing disability as well as education in this area. Projects and activities, the promotion of health and prevention of disability, systems of systematic education at the level of primary health care as well as the provision of health care and rehabilitation of children with developmental difficulties, the monitoring of children at risk, the improvement of the quality of healthcare of disabled persons, and programmes for the inclusion of children and youth with development difficulties as well as beyond sports and other activities, and the provision of sufficient school space during teaching and sports activities. Finally, the report is a review of the work of several ministries and institutions on the implementation of activities identified by the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities. Results. It's illusory to expect that what we're doing is enough and how we are or aren't satisfied with this. No, this is the ultimate task that will permanently look for results, but also generate problems. What do I do to my respected colleague, Škulić, when she said that this country excludes people with disabilities? I wouldn't say that. Society does this, unfortunately, and in order not to make it seem necessary to come up with a higher degree of understanding and feelings of another and his problem. And I repeat, how to find a job for a disabled person, if they don't have it without disability, if we live in an environment of market economy and globalisation as such. The report is transparent, to conclude. The report reviewed a document and, above all, useful material for the development of a future strategy, i.e. in achieving the objectives of the next strategy, i.e. Strategy for the next time. First of all, because of that, but also because of the fact that we now have the first insight, I would say that the state of this problem of the government deserves support and support, and no offense. So, we first have on the table now state of things. All that you say is not done, neither is it bad, nor is it fulfilled. To a large extent, you've assessed it well and you're right, but it's never been done before. It is now the first time that an inventory of what is not done, or what needs to be improved, and what needs to be resolved. In the end, I would like to speak to my esteemed colleague Opačić, president of the SDP Club. Interrupting communication with our club or with any individual here is not a good tool in solving the problems of people with disabilities. Therefore, the question of communication and communication skills is a major problem in this House and in this society, and it is, in fact, very often and the reason for the problems that arise for people with disabilities. In the end, my very little contribution in terms of my proposal for the next National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities, I would not call it that. I would call it the National Single Policy Strategy for the benefit of disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51222	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51223	Mr. Bagaric, it is an incorrect assumption that I interrupted communication with the HDZ Club or with individuals. I've cut off communication very clearly with politics and accusations unfounded by you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51224	Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51225	My colleague Bagariæ, I don't think there's room here to share on the left and right, on this side and on the other side, but look in the mirror and I think it would finally be time to divide into those who work and those who describe why they didn't do something and there should be a differentiation. And I don't know, I don't know if you guys heard each other say that what we're saying here right now is that we need to see what we're talking about. Are you saying that you would not be a good blind representative? Is that what you're saying? Well, the British government has a blind minister. Sir, that's the discrimination we're talking about here. So you create a prerequisite that someone has to see that they would be represented or that they could discuss this. Unfortunately, I...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51226	Mr. Bagaric has the right to reply to the replica and please. I know you didn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51227	My colleague Babić Petricevic, so Parliament is for us to be able to deliver our opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51228	Don't communicate with the representative. Finish your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51229	Vice President, so allow me, please. Well, this is a Parliament where we can communicate with MPs, with the government, with citizens, so you won't tell us who we're going to talk to in Parliament. Please. The problem in this strategy is that they couldn't read it by blind people and the problem is in this strategy, the report that they couldn't read it by blind people because it's only on paper. We did not allow all citizens to read the strategy and to read the report on...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51230	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No matter what you, dear colleague, have said, you can't convince me that you thought I said it. You can say that, but I don't believe that you thought that I said how, or that I said anything, and what could, could be done that a blind man wouldn't be a good advocate. God forbid. I told you about all those who ever held the Gospels in their hands, or the Holy Scriptures. Then they saw there that even with the eyes, people could be blind. I was talking about that category, and in this House very often we have people who are blind in the face of their eyes and you've really demonstrated that right now. And I'm really sorry that that's exactly what you're getting at because it's really total shooting into the blank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51232	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51233	Thank you very much. Well, here's a few things I'd like to replicate to my esteemed colleague, Bagaric. Thus, in 2000, this is not the first report on persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. In 2000, the National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, therefore, did research on the state of persons with disabilities and on the basis of which the National Strategy for Unique Policy for Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia was established from 2003 to 2006. The Croatian legal centre also made a list of all documents, therefore, concerning the situation and legislation in the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities. In 2003, the Sheraton Declaration was brought, so about 5 months ago. And as for this very report, I have a feeling that we don't understand each other, that communication is not exactly our strong suit, i.e. two-way communication. The report's fine. The colleagues who did this report have done a very difficult job, they are colleagues from the Department of Persons with Disabilities. So they had to collect a lot of things, documents that needed to be delivered to them by various ministries. And I thank them this way for really doing a huge job. However, we must also call those ministries that did not do their job in time, which did not deliver their reports. And that includes the Ministry of Finance, I think, which wasn't obvious at all. And when it comes to discrimination, colleague Bagaric, this when I speak for the club and when I speak from this place, and I don't speak in front of the pay phone, it also falls into discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51234	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51235	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've known each other too long to explain anything to each other about, I don't know, attitudes related to persons, disability, etc. And I fully agree with your debate when you said this report was good and with your conclusion. Or, by ending your replica. And my answer to that, I agree. I completely agree with you. And on that first part, I have to admit that I have no answer because at the time my colleague Zdenka was telling me all the time what I was going to say and I just didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51236	Replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51237	My colleague Bagariæ, first of all, I will not rephrase to you in the form of correcting the incorrect quote because I am not afraid of your reply to the replica, as you persistently replicate to all MPs by raising this gray plate correcting the wrong quote. As you can see, I'm not as afraid of you as you are of others. Secondly, you were talking about a man being blind in the eyes that you're absolutely right. In healthy eyes, a person can be blind, and you have set a truly remarkable example of such a situation because you praise what the Government has done in the sports and other activities of disabled children. And that's exactly where the report says she didn't do anything about it. Because the Ministry of Science needed to ensure the availability of school spaces for the purpose of enabling extra-sport activities, etc. And he says, "What happened to the measure?" It has not been implemented, and the reason why, no financial resources, is not secured in the budget. And now you're exactly the part where the government isn't, the government that provides funds for the budget hasn't provided the funds, has done anything. You've just found it, you've found nothing else out of this but to praise it where nothing was done and what serves the shame of the government and in this report is the most devastating part. And third thing, you're saying this whole report is a great basis for a new strategy. Well, man, we're not even the first ones, you'd already be writing a new one. But that's how it is, you'd keep writing strategies and you wouldn't fulfill any strategy, and this report proves to you that the strategy isn't being fulfilled and nothing else. And that you should ask the government who's responsible for why it's not being fulfilled. Not praise it all together. So what the government should be ashamed of, you praise it, you point it out, you're proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51238	Replica reply, distinguished representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And you see, fellow Trainer, with all due respect to you and your knowledge, there are some things you don't know either. Here, first of all, you don't know that the strategy of none, on any subject in this world, is written today and for all time, or this one. And I was right when I said that it could serve as a basis because as far as I know, this period that this strategy covers in 2006. Therefore, it was in a series of so many and so many years because each strategy requires improvement, improvement, changes, changes, additions, etc. Therefore, the strategy in itself is that it is built for a certain time and I was right there, you were wrong. The second thing, I didn't even talk about sports as such, I was talking primarily about prevention within health care, and the other questions really that are really ticky that you've asked, since I'm probably by nature how you rated a coward, I can't answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51240	The word has a distinguished representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51241	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. and Madam Secretary of State. I agree with all those who spoke in this Croatian Assembly today and said that this report was somewhat correct, that the report correctly listed what had to be done and what had not been done, but I also agree with those who said that this report was too administrative, too bureaucratic and that it actually shows in many areas a completely unacceptable way of working, that it shows the ineffectiveness of state bodies and responsible state institutions. And in some way denying the document that seemed to me a few years ago brought this Croatian Parliament to me by consensus. It's personal to me, and I don't care if there's a measure to be implemented by the Ministry this or that, the State Office this or that, but I care about some measure being implemented. The key problem that I personally see here is that we have a pretty good strategy. We mainly have laws and implementing acts, but our implementation and application of the strategy itself is a disaster. 12 measures implemented by discussing only one measure that falls paradoxically into one of those 12 fully implemented, which actually does not work. In this regard, I think that we should talk about these examples because the whole system, especially in this sense, social and social protection and the achievement of more favourable conditions for the exercise of the rights of discriminated groups in society, shows how strong society is, because it is measured by how strong the weakest link is. This is where people with disabilities are anyway. I may quite unfairly leave out a number of problems in this debate, as I said I would only say about one problem. Measure 11 says that until the end of 2003, the Ministry of Health and Social Care should make amendments and additions to the Regulation on the right to leave until the 7th year of the child's life and the right to work with half the full time due to child care with severe developmental disturbances in relation to the expansion of the number of craftsmen and persons self-renewing professional activity, the measures are implemented on the Regulation, but unfortunately they do not apply to that part of parents who do not belong to craftsmen. What's it about, hiding behind all that talk? First, do you know what a child with severe developmental difficulties is? I personally have one such child in my family and I know what that life is. A child with severe developmental difficulties is, for example, a person who is 18 persons with a chronological age of 6 months. It's a person who can't talk, walk, talk, dress, eat, go to the bathroom, who can't dress, who can't do anything, or can't do anything that a child of six months can do. Such individuals are largely cared for by their parents and the state has done well in the laws and has prescribed that because of such an extremely difficult situation, the parent has the right to work part - time with the payment of salaries in the second half of his working time to social care centres. According to our Strategy, according to our laws great, everything works idyllicly, but it is not idyllic and far from being okay. On that second half of the salary that should be paid to the Social Care Centres under the first Social Care Centres, they tax that part of the compensation even though it is an untaxable income, and they should not tax it. Second, no contributions are paid to that part of the fee. Now we return, if we read our Strategy, this Report, excellently even expanded the number of users in real life, and those who have the right to do so do not get those rights which, by law and by rules, should be. The parents of such children gathered primarily through the Angels Association and the petition they sent both to the Parliament and to the government and to the ministries and to the occupier calculated that somewhere over 10 years each parent, each family, each child, had been cut off about 60 thousand kuna. What's happening specifically? Parents notice the illogicality of the law, notice the illogicality of the rule I repeat seems great if our strategy is and what happens? A year and a half since September 2004, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has been inscribed with the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, asking for the opinion of the Tax Administration and Finance, and the whole story involves a public defender who says get rid of it all together. While they've been texting for a year and a half, people don't get the fees they're entitled to, and that's the problem with this strategy, and that's the problem with inaction, and nobody says that the strategy isn't correct, that the strategy, the report isn't properly written, the problem is that it has nothing to do with real life and it has nothing to do with what most of us here would like to see happening. I would also appeal to Ms. Secretary of State Dorica Nikolic, who I know is familiar with the problem of really doing something because at the end of the day, it is an executive responsibility that more ladies from the Staff Service do not explain to parents that the IRS lady is guilty, but not the IRS, because while they blame the various ladies from various ministries, these children do not receive compensation and parents who need to have it, and therefore this report is not good, because this report is autistic of all the real problems. That administratively and bureaucratically prescribes some things that have nothing to do with real life. Speaking of children with special developmental difficulties, I would like to say that this is in some way almost, apart from other people's care and assistance, which is the minimum fee that Mršić used to say almost the only help that each family spends most of the time installing an elevator, for example, in its residential buildings, houses, etc. That they don't expect any too much support from the state, they're humble people, but here I am, and at this time, I urge you to really make these people exercise at least the minimum rights they have under the laws. I hope that if this debate is anything else that will produce that effect that we're going to do a little bit less drilling into our chests that we have a super strategy, that we have super-national documents, that we're all great and good, that we're worried about, and that we're actually just looking for some excuse for what we didn't do. And finally, when I think about these problems of people with disabilities, then I often say, listening to some debate here that a good part of people with disabilities is not half disabled as disabled and autistic as one part of people who in this way has nothing to do with reality and here debate and especially elsewhere in public and another appeal let's not do all the scientific projects, we for a simple project of putting down edges, or removing architectural barriers to it as if we're doing a space shuttle to go to Mars. Some things are simple, they just need to be done, and if this debate gets through if anything else that effect that at least one, two, three people responsible in certain ministries are going to think about these problems that way, then I think we did something because my colleague Bagaric told us, you just said, I didn't want to replicate, nothing will change us with this debate in the Assembly. They have to change in approach to problems in order to make them specific people who are responsible for it, people in the government, people in the ministries, people in other state administration bodies, because the better lives of people with disabilities do not make good reports, but what we do for them all together, and we can't take the impression while we talk all day about how we're very full of worry, as we have to, we always have to talk about here in the Assembly, it's got to be, for example, these four thousand children, four thousand families that I've been talking about still haven't solved their problem, that there were still blind people and undersighted, that the person still with physical disability who don't have improved their daily life in any way. So I won't be able to accept this report, and I'll probably be restrained just because it's listed whatever doesn't seem to be and what's really going on here, but if we don't really change some things in our heads and if we don't change that, it needs to be done, and I need to think that we won't do good to ourselves, but neither to the people with disabilities that we stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51242	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51243	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The question of disabled people, disabled people, disability, it's a very sensitive issue, and when this is being discussed, I think we should discuss with a lot, a lot more respect for disabled people. As a disabled person she knows best, as a blind person she knows best, to the deaf also, to the immobilized, it is also well known by the nearest person in their environment and as much as we as a society and as individuals have done for the benefit of all these disabled people we have never done enough. We are always in a way obliged to these persons, at least we who do not have the kind of disability that blind, deaf, and immobilized persons have. It is difficult to talk about the implementation of this Strategy especially when we are considering it in some limited capacity, in conditions where we have many disadvantages as a society, when we are in one transition conditions, when we have these consequences of war, when we have a lot of people who are essentially victims of war and those persons are also included in the category of persons who are in some way disabled in their lives, so that as long as we reach out and want to do a good organization, do well to those persons, be in their function in some way. It's hard to satisfy if you don't have a chance. I believe that you all agree that they are one of the limiting factors with a quality, good and clear organization to be set up. Some solutions that are given need to be clearly developed to make them more efficient. Some illogicalities and injustices should also be corrected because there are no permanent final solutions, there are only better solutions that bring life and it doesn't matter to me when we talk about this report it doesn't really matter this report. It is important whether that report says whether we did what we really could and should have done in this period and how much we as a means certain elements of society affected this means by our organisation, by accessing business to resolve this issue. We can't blame someone now if some things weren't good. It would be good to say, in this debate, that, and this, and that, we propose a conclusion here in Parliament, we ask the Government to make it simple for a person who has in some way obstructed the implementation of this strategy to be publicly demonstrated, so if appropriate sanctions should be said. Because listen, man can't shake the impression when he listens to this whole day's debate that instead of putting one sharp criticism on the table, it means implementing this strategy so that it can be seen exactly after the quality of the argument that we have had in the implementation or non-implementation of that strategy, we are actually counting on each other here. I think it's an insult to disabled people. Here, this is my general position and what I'm about to say in a few minutes is what disabled persons asked me to do and from Slavonski Brod, County of Brod-Posavina, specifically the Association of the Blind Ship-Posavina County. They've launched an initiative, I think the secretary of state is familiar with it, about the adoption of a law on compensation for severe disability. The reasons they provided here indicate that such an initiative is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, on the Declaration on the Rights of disabled persons, too, that it has its foothold in the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities. It is said that the initiative to pass a similar law was launched by the Croatian Federation of Blinders back in 1999, that on 15 March 2001, the Parliament was discussed here. At that time, the Parliament did not accept the proposal regarding the drafting of the Law on Supplement to Blindness. That's what the proposal said back then. Respecting the need to level the conditions for all categories of people with disabilities. So the explanation that all people with disabilities with 100% disability actually enter that category. However, the parliament adopted the conclusion and obliged the government of the Republic of Croatia to propose an appropriate legal solution by the end of April 2001. As we can see, such a legal solution has not yet arrived at the benches of parliamentary deputies. Furthermore, this argument states that the adoption of the proposed law would eliminate, among other things, the present unjustified and illogical situation that is present in the regulation of the aid and care institute. We have a paradoxical situation to say in persons with the same 100% disability of a single person have the right to a fee of 280 kuna, in another particular situation they have more than 4 thousand kunas and between these two extremes you have many different situations, which means that this area is not well arranged, that it needs to be quality solved and that every person who is in 100% disability that it can have and as much as possible given the degree of damage and causes etc. that he has compensation for the assistance and care he receives from another person. From what is proposed, it can be concluded that there are about 15 people in Croatia, so it is one estimate that there are about 15 thousand people with 100% disability and that for these needs, about 127 million kuna should be allocated in the Croatian budget. It means that these 15,000 disabled people with 100% disability could get an allowance to severe disability. Let's say this is one problem we face clearly. Now, how, when and how to solve it. But it will certainly need to be solved because such problems have been solved in the European Union. If we solve this problem in one satisfactory way, we will draw close to the standards adopted in the European Union when it comes to such persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51244	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51245	Thank you very much. Mr. Piplojic, most of my colleagues think it's a very sensitive question for people with disabilities. We're not that sensitive. We are sensitive when our rights are not respected. So the question of people with disabilities is not a sensitive question. It's a question of respecting the human and civil rights of a category of people. We're not special people or people with special needs. We have the same needs. You and I both need to get on the tram. Everyone pleases her in their own way. Also, I'd like to say that every time it comes to people with disabilities, it's always the main factor of money, there's no money, it's being transferred for next year. Unfortunately, it no longer holds water. So, again, I'm mentioning this unfortunate fund for professional rehabilitation and employment. The money showed up, the fund didn't work. So we simply can't talk about some things anymore that we don't have the money and to create a positive atmosphere for people with disabilities, so that we're not as sensitive as the question I think we should work on sensitizing the public and personally us as representatives, so that we present some laws and problems in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51246	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51247	Well, my colleague Škulić, when I spoke about this sensitivity, I didn't talk about the sensitivity of disabled people in view of their condition. I was talking about the discussion that when this is how it's being debated that it's actually a sensitive problem, that it can't be fired like this, and in my opinion I've seen it as an insult to people with disabilities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51248	No, it was a replica. This is the answer to the replica. I didn't see it. Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right. I never doubted your honesty and good intentions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51249	Mr. Vice President, I picked up before the plate "correction of the incorrect allegations" because, twice now, my colleague Piploic said "our debate is an insult to people with disabilities". I didn't have a special discussion. I've reported to my colleagues with replicas, corrections to an incorrect quote, and my intention wasn't to insult anyone, especially people with disabilities. Someone accesses more emotionally, someone accesses data on any debate. Well, if you think anyone here in the House has offended people with disabilities today, then you've made a mistake. I was also constantly pointing out what luck it was for my colleagues who responded to the corrections of the incorrect allegations and pointed out that we spent more money than we did, and with what we spent from 2003 to 2004, a billion, 1174 thousand kuna, I would certainly be more pleased with everyone here. An insult is something, and please don't talk about insults. We're Parliament representatives of flesh and blood.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51250	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51251	Mr. Vice President, first of all, I would like to warn my colleague Piplovic that he has spoken on several occasions in his debate about disabled persons. This is a report on a strategy for people with disabilities. So I think the difference is in, in terms. I would also like to reiterate and reiterate what my colleague Vesna Škulić said again that we talked today about how fundamental human and civil rights of a category of persons are being achieved. They're people with disabilities. And in the part where you said this report shouldn't show, but if we're going to talk about whether someone's responsible, who's responsible for the name and last name clearly and so on, I now think this report is clear enough. It has been done very simply with a lot of effort, as has already been said here, and some ministries have not even authorised to send their reports. Not that they didn't send them in time. And this report clearly states which ministries didn't do the work they were supposed to do. I think we can agree on that part. Because if, among other things in the field of education, we are not satisfied with the measures that have been taken, there is a name and last name in the ministry that is probably the most responsible for it. Or when we talk about this Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I really don't understand if anyone's going to be responsible for what's going on right now for the second year that we don't have a person at the head of the Fund who would be the head of that Fund. There's still a competition in progress. That 12 million kunas were lost for the past year because only at the end of the year was the administrative, administrative council formed and I am asking the question in advance whether someone will answer next year what 37 million kuna is scheduled for next year in the same fund, and we still don't have a director.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51252	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51253	Well, fellow Sobol, I don't think we understand each other at all. If you're looking for a replica to say what you just said, I agree, then we understand each other. But I was talking about responsibility. And there's this dear, specific responsibility, some imaginary one, and that's why I put an emphasis on it in my debate. We'll probably adopt that report. The question of whether people with disabilities will solve many of their life’s issues and problems? That's the question. We're responsible simply for that. We need to give an answer. If we don't know, we have to look for someone else's answer. Because that's what people with disabilities expect from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51254	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51255	You see, Reverend Pivot, you think illogically. On the one hand, you praise the government with this report, and then in the same sentence, the esteemed Piplojic, you say, "It should only be 120 million kunas and to correct the status of these people with the most severe disability. And you see the government not only found in the Budget Proposal for the next year, 127 million kuna, but the government is about to send one here to the Parliament for ratification of an international document requiring it to find 700 million kuna to compensate the Austrians. Now for the Austrians there will be 700 million, but 127 million kuna for the most difficult forms of disability and for their help there is no. And you're praising it. It's completely illogical for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51256	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51257	I don't know where you found it that I praised Vlad. I was talking here about a report and I said what I said and any report when it came here to Parliament he came here with the aim of being subjected to some reasoned criticism through the debate itself. If that's how you took it as a compliment, you didn't get it right. However, do not impute the second part of your consideration that I have offered a solution. I didn't offer that solution. They're colleagues, people with disabilities. The Association of the Blind County of Brodsko-Posaviska has offered one draft law on compensation for heavy disability and I said that these are estimates and that according to these estimates so much funding should be allocated. Oh, God, let's be as a society-ready financial and, uh, find a consensus of human and political to single out this part of the resources for those next year so that the issue can be resolved to the general satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51258	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51259	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State. This long debate today on this report actually shows how much the representatives care that the Croatian State, which is also defined by the Constitution as a social state, does its social component towards those most vulnerable in this society, which are disabled persons. I am not going to enter all the parts of the report that are correctly written, but what stands in it despite the efforts of the state ministries to present what has been done that the report itself does not satisfy us, and that is why our club will take this report into account. As such, we cannot support him, and we are not satisfied with what is presented in him. In the first row, and that's actually the taste of my exposure is the part that applies to the education of disabled children. It's really amazing that, with all the oaths of caring for the disabled, this country's care for the disabled, it shows this kind of carelessness, this kind of non-chalantism, I'd say when it comes to disabled children. Of all these, of all these measures of action, from the creation of a pedagogical standard, from the creation of a professional basis for the adoption of curricula, on the modernisation of curricula and programmes and rehabilitation programmes, on the monitoring system of children with developmental difficulties, on the education integration programme of children with developmental difficulties, and we can similarly conclude only one thing, and that is that in almost all these programmes the countries have failed. So the state has failed to care for the disabled children. I don't know if you've ever spoken to a family who has a disabled child. If so, if you know the way they live, you know very well how much trouble they suffer, how many crosses they actually carry with that child. Man expects states to react in these situations. But here, there was no reaction at all, and it casts a terrible shadow on this entire report and on the sincerity of the efforts that the Croatian state is making to overcome the problems that disabled people face daily. Because if we can't help the children, ladies and gentlemen, then I wonder how we're going to help adults who also have their own special, specific needs as disabled persons. It was only done here with the goodwill of a single ministry, which is the Ministry of Education, and it's scheduled for all 12 programmes. So much for good faith that something can be done for disabled children. For that reason as well as the others that my colleagues listed, we cannot support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51260	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club 5 minutes, the distinguished representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51261	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadic, I would ask you to use the termology of children with developmental difficulties, that is also according to the declaration of, from Sheraton in 2003, when they therefore made access to people with disabilities through terminology to speak to people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. Also no longer a retarded person but a person with intellectual damage. Otherwise, this report should not be used for politics but should be directed towards a high policy that starts dealing with persons with disabilities as category, minority majority where social, human and civil rights are systematically violated. Human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. This results in the need to guarantee people with disabilities their full enjoyment without discrimination. How much of a society do we really recognize? Will we continue to protect those who support discrimination against people with disabilities because they are not doing their job? In this report, we can see specifically which ministries have not done their job. Are we going to ignore the fact that in parts of Zadar County, for the past month, people with the most difficult disabilities have no medical care because HZO and home care facilities can't agree? Otherwise, people with disabilities get an answer so don't you have relatives to drive you. Unfortunately, our parents often suffer with us, receiving strokes of efforts that put us up daily. Will we close our eyes to the problems of children with developmental difficulties that the state does not recognise part of the cost of taking children to rehabilitation programs from the place of residence. Otherwise, I'd be referring to every child's need for a family, and these children are just why they're separated from the family. As representatives, how much will we promote the idea of advocating human and civil rights to persons with disabilities and avoiding the spread of a medical and merciful model? What about treading dignity? There's been a lot of talk about civil and urban barriers. Unfortunately, a large number of people with disabilities who are dependent on other people's help cannot get out of bed, because as I have already cited several times, there has been a break-up between the HZZ and the home care facility. In this way they are already disabled at the very beginning and the principle of equal opportunities ends here. Every society goes through various processes, and so does ours to respect diversity, i.e. the role and meaning of individuals in society, and to accept and address its needs. For these reasons, it is necessary to strengthen the role of civil society in the control of the implementation of the national strategy. I believe that all these remarks will be carefully considered and that the next report will be obtained in time with several specific measures. I also thank all my fellow Members of Parliament who participated in the debate, and I am pleased to have spent this much time. It seems to me that this is the first time it's been so long, that so much time has been spent by fellow MPs on disability issues. I thank everyone again.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51262	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51263	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Secretary, Your Honor. Here, now we're at the end. The report is almost here for 7 and more hours and, of course, the report on the implementation of the national strategy of a single policy for persons with disabilities as you can see that it has provoked a great deal of interest, that it is a bile debate, but I am glad that one thing is that we are really at the end and on the left and on the right, and that Vesna, Mrs Vesna, has now given recognition that the report is comprehensive, that the report is exhaustive and that the report covers all those entities that have been involved. She said she'd said it before, not now, but she said it before in her replica. ... I hear it well, and I see how you react. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the report as a report, if we are all agreeable in this achieved our goal. Now it is up to us to agree on how much this strategy has achieved in certain areas or should we better say how it has not been achieved in certain areas. If everything had been realized then someone would have found something to say that's not what it is. It has been achieved as much as it could have been achieved. However, I know for sure that, and I've been through a great deal of Croatia, and I've been working with children and people with these difficulties for 30 years and I know that there are major shifts. I know that there are shifts in the prevention of institutionalization, that there are shifts in deinstitutionalisation, and I know that there are shifts in children's books for the blind that the minister last promised to be not only for primary schools but also for high schools to finance. I know it's been achieved a lot in the sensitization of society, but forgive me, we need first to sensitize the family itself to deal with their own burden, and that we and all those in charge are 24 hours in hand. I know that preschool children are very good in certain areas, not all should be, should not always stick your finger in the minister, nor should you always stick your finger in the assistant minister or secretary of state. Of course we know that some powers have been passed on to the local community that has to take care of it, and it is the local community that knows what its inhabitants need. And there's exactly the difference between Mršić's hive and I don't know any other place, because he's more devoted to attention, he's doing less talking, and he's got better results. He'll talk less. All in all, the Croatian Democratic Community has found shortcomings and we cannot close our eyes before that. We know how much, where attention should be paid most now in next year. But the report as such is fully accepted and welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51264	Thank you. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51265	Thank you very much, Mr. President, or President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you on behalf of the promoter for this comprehensive debate and, of course, that these proposals and remarks that have been discussed very carefully in this debate today. The fact is that this report shows a real state, that what on that side is correct, that there was no intention of making things beautiful or hairstyled, although from this report is clearly visible and what was not done in 2003 and 2004, but it is clear that it is only half of the time period to which this national strategy applies. Therefore, it remains to hear the report and to read the 2005 report and, of course, remains in 2006 when a final court can be reached whether the national strategy is fully implemented, is not implemented, why it has not been carried out and who, of course, is responsible for what has not been done. The fact is that even in these two years, significant shifts have been made to address the problem of people with disabilities, and I say remains practically throughout 2006 because, in practice, in 2005, it is near the end when we can bring the final judgment on the implementation of this strategy. Once again, thank you very much, while taking care of persons with disabilities is not only about Croatian governments, resolution ministries, state institutions, but it is very much a concern and units of local self-government and how much understanding there is for this problem and the results in the realization of this strategy will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51266	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51267	Secondly, the report on the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, during 2003 and 2004. I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the national single policy strategy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 is hereby adopted during 2003 and 2004. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 80 votes to nine abstentions and 21 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51268	Let's move on, distinguished colleagues and colleagues would now skip to the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, as today St. Nicholas and congratulations to all who celebrate the day's names and congratulations to our sailors who today are Seamen's Day, and the legislator and secretary of state are in protocol, so we don't have any representatives present today, so we'll move if you don't mind, on the fourth item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the programme loan for adjustment, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 396 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Legislative, financial? There are no reports in the debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51269	Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the adjustment programme loan. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 106 votes for and 3 abstentions passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51270	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian project of technological development, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 401 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Education, Science and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I see that it is not very much an interest in this point, and it seems to me that the Republic of Croatia is taking an extremely important step towards a 31m-euro loan for adjustment, or one of the next steps in adapting the Republic of Croatia in the technological sense of entering the European Union. The intention is certainly commendable and I don't think we should talk much about the contract itself, the contract is made up standardly of how such international agreements, i.e. loan agreements with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are concluded. The funds are intended for this reason, the Brodar Institute in Zagreb as a practically exclusive user, so one segment of the technological development of the Republic of Croatia, which is acceptable to assume, which is also commendable. It is an institution that played a large role in the last state, remained almost intact in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards, there have been some difficulties, primarily organisational and financial, but this step would certainly and this amount of money could certainly lead to the famous branches on which it once was. What you would like to say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club is actually the background of all this, i.e. The needs of the Republic of Croatia to do something significant in terms of adapting to the technological level of Europe, in which, in the opinion of our analysts and according to objective assessments from the West, we lag behind 20 or even 30 years. This lagging behind in 1990 was significantly less particularly on the processing industry plan we were very close to the European summit, but then what happened happened, there was a war as it was, there was a conversion as it was, there was privatisation as it was. Technology has stopped, everyone has taken care of some other business and we are in technological development today on the tail of Europe. During the time Professor Radic was a minister, I think it was called reconstruction and development at that time, his one department of the ministry organised data collection and the production of a publication called "Croatian and Sustainable Development". I had the opportunity to participate in the production of this publication, a small segment I worked on about the textile industry so I had an insight into this material, there was a thicker book of one 700-800 pages in which, according to the segments of the Croatian industry, actually told me what the situation was then, it seems to be some 96, 97 years old, which is predicting and what will happen. Inside, we predicted the difficulties that individual industries will have in particular the processing industry in the near future, such as the entry of China into the World Trade Organisation, practically the collapse of the textile industry throughout Europe, not just in Croatia, the classic one it was at that moment. That book was printed, the fees were paid to boast, it was all correct and beautifully made, but nothing happened from that book. Nor have they taken any steps in adapting industry to everything that's going on. Nor have any more significant steps been taken to raise a general level of technological and technical knowledge in Croatia. Nothing happened, and in fact, this detour of our industry and technology has been properly continued. What Croatia is missing, and what we very little talk about here is actually a clear way of strategy that we want in the future, which we will be in the future. We're all talking about the state, the knowledge society, the new technologies, and we've never made up our mind, I'm not just talking about this government, I'm talking about the Croatian governments in general, what Croatia really wants to do. Are we going to be chip manufacturers for Europe or are we going to do cars or are we just going to do healthy food and tourism? Where's our main orientation? Of course, we will do everything, but where is our main orientation and what does Croatia really want to do with its future? This loan is, say, one of the signposts that might happen. If that's the case, then it's very good, if it's just one step, an isolated step that goes in the direction of the unpredictable and unpredictable, then it's, of course, very bad, and then it's throwing into the wind 31 million euros times 7, so 250 million kuna. There are areas where, I'm sure, we can't. And it is pointless to spend time and spend, to collect political points to think that Croatia will become an oasis of the pharmaceutical industry, that Croatia will become an oasis of the computer industry. No, they won't. Some others came before us, investments are huge. A terrible investment that we are neither willing nor able to draw upon most likely. Investments in new products and we won't be there. Croatia is located in an attractive place in Europe, and it will be located not only geographically but also in the future. We have a chance to do what the West won't and can't do anymore because of economic, environmental, I don't know, some other reasons and what the East or the South still don't know how to do. There's the role of our technological development strategy. There's the role of our education. I'm saying, if this is one step in that direction, it's a great step. I didn't see it in there, but I didn't expect anything like that. In particular, I think that the importance of technical and technological education in Croatia should be highlighted and, at every step of this type, should be envisaged not only by how the Broding Institute, as a top institution of its kind in Croatia, will be improved, organised and similar, but by how these skills will be implemented, which will be developed in the future, better organised and better equipped shipping institute. So part of the money that will be directed towards higher education, according to the education of those people who will know the real product and say that that's what we can actually make a relatively decent living with in the next 5 or 10 years. This recognition of the right product, the recognition of the right trend, seems to me, is the main task of higher education in Croatia. That's what every document like this should actually be like a step, as a phase in achieving the goal should stand. Technical and technological studies, in particular postgraduate technical and technological studies, are of such importance that it is never too much to emphasize in this Assembly and in the media and in the public. It's something we'll soon survive with or become those who dig canals across Europe, serve guests and so on. All in all, this is big money for every criterion, for European criteria, and for our criteria in particular. I would like to be quite sure that it is money that is directed in the right direction, in the direction of adapting Croatia to these conditions that expect us in the very near future. If I am convinced of this and if the Club of the Croatian People's Party succeeds, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51272	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51273	Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian Technology Development Project. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 108 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51274	We're moving to agenda six. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on the mutual protection of the confidentiality of data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 398. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The committee's reporters? There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51275	Final proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on mutual data protection. I am voting on the final draft of the law. You can vote. Score. I find that with 101 votes for and 6 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51276	We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data (ETS No. 108) which enable European communities to join, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The committee's reporters? On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51277	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I'm really an opinion and colleagues from my club that it's not right for us to cross another point of silence. It is about extremely important documents and at least a few words about them should be said. Namely, this convention is one great convention. It is the first international document of this species that protects an individual from the abuse of his personal data. The Convention itself came into force on October 1st, 85th, so exactly 20 years ago. And I personally think it is a great shame that, with this offer of amendments and addition of the Convention itself as a full member of the Council of Europe, a little more should have been said about the Convention itself, about what it has achieved in these two decades. The Croatian People's Party Club will, of course, support the proposed amendments and additions to the Convention itself, but we felt that these few sentences should nevertheless be spoken. You noticed that this Convention does not bear the word "European" in its term, which is common for Council of Europe documents. In fact, it does not carry this adjective for a reason because already 20 years ago, the Convention was wanted to be signed by many other countries and beyond the territory of the European continent, and this has indeed happened that a whole series of countries besides the members of the Council of Europe have signed the Convention. I would especially like to point out that this Convention is significant for one particular reason. She pays special attention to the so-called “. ” personal sensitive data, so racial belongings, political beliefs, individual health problems, religion, sexual tendencies, criminal record, etc. So that's where the story started 20 years ago and it's a shame we didn't get one report on the implementation of this Convention itself. In particular, one detail is important, which refers to the restrictions, i.e. restrictive measures proposed by the Convention when the Signatory State, in this case Croatia, exchanges information on its citizens with countries which did not sign this Convention. In this case, the aim is to protect individuals and to force countries that have not signed and ratified the document to do so as soon as possible to protect our citizens from such an international data exchange. However, at this very moment we have one entirely different offer and the reason why this Convention is on our table, which is the fact that the Council of Europe, at the request of the European Union, wants the Convention to be applied in a way that the European Communities can be signatories to the Convention, not only of the Member States of the European Union, so one major shift and what we should draw as parliamentary representatives here as a teacher is that we must carefully not only build into our legislation the documents of the European Union, but also of the Council of Europe because we see that the European Union is avoiding the creation of parallel systems, but simply applying and installing everything that is valuable and good in its legislation. Now we can stop there a little, and if so, if the European Union considers that it should be built into its legislation... all that is valuable and offered by the documents of the Council of Europe then we, as representatives in this mandate, should also be asked something which seems very important to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Council of Europe has adopted 198 conventions so far, we are a full member. Do any of us sitting here know how many of these documents the Council of Europe has ratified? I believe none of us know about this information, none, which is not good. We should know which documents we signed as state, which Parliament ratified, which is not and why not? At least in the four-year term, one such report seems to me that it would not be too much to learn a little bit more about these documents and reasons why we did not accept one major part of these documents. Here's just yesterday's co-worker and co-worker day, day, International Volunteer Day. 5 years ago, the Council of Europe adopted the Convention on the Promotion of Young Volunteers so that they could work on the premises of all Member States of the Council of Europe. Croatia has not even signed, Croatia has not ratified the Convention. It would certainly be good to hear about the reasons why, but I repeat not only about this Convention but all 198 conventions. This is why I only answered because our club really believes that we must not go through these documents, but that we must really deal with the details that have led the Republic of Croatia to accept or refuse to ratify any of these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51278	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, the esteemed representative, Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51279	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen and gentlemen of the Croatian Government. The HSP Club will support this amendment and the addition of the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to Automated Personal Data Processing, however, this Convention and the debate on it inevitably raises the question to what extent the Republic of Croatia has already respected and implemented this Convention itself. So we can talk here about whether or not we accept this amendment to the Convention, but it is even more important to determine whether the Republic of Croatia is implementing the existing Convention in its existing form. What exactly is this about? The Republic of Croatia has passed a Law on the Protection of Personal Data which, of course, is fully in line with this Convention. The Personal Data Protection Act prohibits the creation of a database if that database has not been approved by the State Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, however, we are witnessing the fact that the Croatian banks, that the Croatian Banking Association has formed its register of credit obligations, which is in fact the creation of a database on citizens' responsibilities and thus cross data from all Croatian banks. We are therefore in a situation where Croatian banks create an automated database of each of our citizens, and since a good part of these banks is also co-owner of insurance companies for the second pillar of pension insurance, we come to the conclusion that a large database of our citizens is created entirely independent of a country that has better information in certain segments than the Croatian state itself. I have spoken about this subject many times in the Croatian Parliament and every time I have insisted that representatives of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data tell me what they have done about it? Did they give permission to launch such a database, or do they follow what the Croatian Bank Association is doing with its own database? The second thing that is equally important is the fact that almost all our banks are owned by foreign banks, which renegotiates the possibility that all our data on our financial transactions from our current accounts is stored in some central database in Milan or somewhere in Austria. I believe that such a possibility would actually be contrary... This Convention and that in this sense, the Croatian Government should have reacted long ago, if that's the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is in vain to adopt conventions, or here to discuss their changes and additions if these conventions fall here at the first step, which is the business of Croatian banks and their relationship with personal data of Croatian citizens. And I don't know what's more personal than how much money you got, what you spent it on, what your family's standard is, what companies you work with, what health care you're in, and how much money you spend on your pension. It's practically our whole life's activity. These data are networked completely independent of the Croatian state, and this is very easy to store beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. In whose interest and why without state control, I have not yet received an answer. Therefore, the HSP Club will support the ratification of these amendments and the addition of the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data but we would like to, we would like to ask the Government to report as soon as possible to the Parliament on these worrying moves of the Croatian Banking Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51280	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments to the Convention on the Protection of Persons sees automated processing of personal data that enables European communities to access. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 106 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed Law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51284	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51285	Okay. No. 1st Amendment, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51286	The amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic is accepted in part with the correction. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the In the amendment to Article 3(2), point 18, the words ‘aid insurance’ shall be deleted and point 18 shall read ‘road insurance’. [[A little louder, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51287	Representative Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51288	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51289	Amendment accepted in this amended form. 2nd Amendment of Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51290	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51291	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd Amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51292	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is as follows: therefore, the lack of knowledge of legal regulations or their misunderstanding is not an element of freedom from responsibility. The establishment of the knowledge of Croatian language as a condition for a member of the management of society is contrary to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as Member States of the World Trade Organisation and we believe that imposing such an obligation on more than one member of the administration is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51293	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51294	I mean, it'd be like I'm looking for an act of mercy right now. The point is clear, I'm asking for a vote. Everyone should know Croatian if they work in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51295	The vote, right? Please engage. You can vote. The result? 17 for. 13 abstentions. 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51296	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51297	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th Amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51298	The Government accepts the amendment but with correction Thank you very much. [[Intruder: A little louder please state secretary speak.]] Excuse me, excuse me. So the government accepts the amendment but with correction. In Article 27, the words "in the introduction of business of a company or financial institution" are replaced by the words "in jobs that can be compared to the business of a insurance company." The reasons are therefore to comply with the Law on Commercial Companies and the concept of the Insurance Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51299	I see that the representative gives the sign that Kovacevic accepts the amendment in such a modified form and becomes an integral part of the Law. Six. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51300	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51301	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7. MP Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51302	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51303	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 8. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51304	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51305	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 9th Representative Pera Kovacevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51306	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is this: The final draft law does not lay down, in accordance with the European Union directives, the provision of a supervisory authority’s consent to premium prices and insurance conditions to be applied by the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51307	Thank you. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51308	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51309	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 12 for it. Six abstentions. 75 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th also representative Pera Kovacevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51310	Amendment 10, then. The government doesn't accept. Therefore, in Article 59, paragraph 2 is the following: The final proposal of the Insurance Act in accordance with the requirements laid down by the secondary source of European Union law. The Directives of the European Union have not established the obligation of companies to ensure the consent of the supervisory authority to the conditions of insurance and premium prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51311	Representative Pero Kovacevic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51312	I can't accept that argument. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51313	Please vote. Let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 13 for. Five abstentions. 75 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th also representative Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51314	So Amendment 11 of MP Pera Kovacevic is not accepted. Just a second. He's got an explanation. [[Intruder: No explanation?]] Therefore, the argument: the general agreement shall be concluded freely and subject to the conditions laid down by the parties. The provisions of the Agreement will require persons who will determine the recognition of the status of authorised actuaries to carry out insurance operations to meet the professional conditions for the performance of the tasks required by the authorised actuary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51315	Representative Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51316	I'm looking for a vote. Apparently, the secretary of state didn't even read what it says here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51317	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 14 for. 12 abstentions. 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 12, also a representative of Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51318	So Amendment 12. No, the government doesn't accept the amendment. Therefore, the supervisory authority would be unable to establish, on the basis of its powers, the conditions for the acquisition and verification of the expertise necessary to carry out the tasks of the authorised actuary.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51319	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51320	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51321	Please vote. Let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 11 for. Seven abstentions. 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Amendment also by MP Pera Kovacevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51322	The 13th amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic is not accepted. I'm sorry, I just wanted to come up with an explanation. Therefore, the final proposal for a law lays down the Institute of Authorised Actuaries, or a person who does not have the obligation to calculate and bring premium prices and determine the level of technical provisions because it is the business of the company’s administration. The designated authorised actuary in the insurance company is obliged to verify whether the premiums and technical provisions of insurance are established in accordance with the rules and, in the event of irregularities, to take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51323	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51324	Well, that's exactly why I gave this amendment that you're explaining right now. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51325	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 12 for, 9 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14. also MP Pera Kovacevic's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51326	MP Pera Kovacevic's amendment number 14 is not accepted by the government. The explanation is next. The authorised actuary shall verify whether the technical provisions of the insurance undertaking are formed in a way that enables the insurance undertaking to meet all the obligations under the insurance contract on a permanent basis. Technical provisions for insurance are the most important element of insurance risk management, i.e. they constitute the obligation of the insurance company under insurance contracts and must be shaped in terms of the risks taken. Furthermore, the obligation of the actuaries to notify the supervisory authority is established where the company administration does not take or does not take the measures necessary to remove irregularities. In this way, the independence of the actuaries has been established. The authorised actuary is constantly able to determine whether the management of the company has taken appropriate measures and does not have to report them specifically. The proposed deadlines are not acceptable because, as such, they would allow the insurance company not to form technical provisions for more than seven months in accordance with the rules which would result in a risk to the insolvency of the company and the interests of the insurance company.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51327	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51328	The consequences would have been controlled, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51329	Please engage. We can vote. The result? 10 for, 5 abstentions, 73 opposers. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 15th MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51330	Just a second to find him. Therefore, Amendment 15 of Article 69 of the basic Regulation does not accept the amendment. So, the explanation. Therefore, the final proposal of the law established the Institute of Authorised Actuaries, i.e. a person who is not obliged to calculate or bring premium prices in the insurance company. Therefore, we consider the word "name" more appropriate than the word "choose" because the management of the insurance company can choose a specific person, but it will only acquire the right and responsibility to carry out the tasks of an authorised actuary by appointing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51331	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51332	It's about the difference between naming and choosing and everything else. That's such a big difference, and you had a bad translator here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51333	Please vote. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. The result? 15 for, 6 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51334	The government accepts it entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51335	It becomes an integral part of the law. 17th Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51336	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51337	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18, also represented by Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51338	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51339	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19th Representative Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51340	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is next. Therefore, technical insurance reserves are formed against the risks of insurance taken, and the damages are paid out of the assets to cover the technical provisions that are formed from the insurance premium. Therefore, the technical provisions of insurance represent the obligations of insurance companies to insurance contractors. The insurance agreement, i.e. the conditions of insurance, can establish different circumstances and ways of early termination of the insurance contract, and in this case it is prescribed that insurance undertakings to insurance contractors created under the contract must be recorded in the bonus and discount reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51341	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51342	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51343	Let's get on with it. We vote. We can vote. The result? 10 for, 4 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th Amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51344	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is next. The proposal lays down the final draft law in Article 125(2), establishes the obligation of special management of assets to cover the mathematical reserves of the insurance company’s assets as well as the possibility of enforcement only in the case of payment of liabilities under the life insurance contract, and is also determined the value of assets which may be the subject of enforcement in view of the claims made by the insurance undertaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51345	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51346	I can't accept such a freakish explanation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51347	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 9 for, 7 abstentions, 69 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment of MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51348	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51349	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 22. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51350	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51351	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23rd Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51352	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51353	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24. Also represented by Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51354	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51355	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 25th same representative, Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51356	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51357	It becomes an integral part of the law. 26th also represented by Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51358	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51359	It becomes an integral part of the law. 27th Representative Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51360	Article 291 does not apply. Therefore, the same as Amendment 6 to Article 68 of the criminal provisions relating to Article 68(4). So that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51361	Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51362	The term unsustainable means nothing, so I wanted to say it exactly within 30 days, then it's specified and determined, and this is how you'll be unsustainable for 100 years. Thank you. The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51363	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 12 for, 6 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51364	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51365	It becomes an integral part of the law. 29th MP Pera Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51366	The amendment is not accepted. The underlying capital of the insurance company is one of the items to be taken into account... the requirements for the guarantee capital, i.e. the lowest level of the necessary capital of the insurance company, for the purpose of meeting the required insolvency limit. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51367	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51368	So I'm pulling because it's about the earlier amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51369	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 30. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51370	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51371	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 31, the Legislative Committee as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51372	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51373	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State! I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour and 5 abstentions and 3 against, the Insurance Act was passed along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I hereby conclude: "It authorises the professional service of the Croatian Parliament to carry out a revision of the text on the Insurance Act before its publication in the "National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 for, 11 abstentions against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51377	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51378	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2nd Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51379	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51380	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. The Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51381	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51382	It becomes an integral part of the law. HSU Representatives' Club, 4th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51383	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is as follows. Therefore, in ensuring the damage of a person, the person who is in no way responsible for the accident, or damage, is in any way responsible for his or her own will. The proposed amendment shall place the burden of evidence of the facts and circumstances necessary to resolve the compensation claim on a person who is weaker in the proceedings. The proposed amendment would have the right to compensation for damages only within 60 days of the date of submission of the full and documented compensation claim, which means that it would have to obtain its own police report on the accident, the assessment of the damage and everything else. Insurance against motor liability is contractual insurance and is not subject to the Mandatory Relations Act, in particular Section 27, which determines the right to an insurance contract. Therefore, Article 943 of the Treaty on the Functioning The mandatory relationship law, insurance obligations in terms of insurance payments, i.e. compensation, determines a period that cannot be more than 14 days, counting since the insurance company has received notice that the insurance case has occurred. If it is necessary to determine the existence of an insurance undertaking or the amount of damage for a period of time, the insurance undertaking shall pay compensation for the damage within 30 days...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51384	Shorter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51385	...from the date of receipt of the damage claim. Here's another sentence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The mandatory relationship law lays down the right to tighten the interest on the date of receipt of the insurance case notice if the insurance undertaking fails to fulfil its obligation within those deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51386	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51387	Dear President, we have been motivated as legislators of this law by the fact that there are not too many judicial disputes about this. Because we believe that the current, or proposed solution to the law will generate litigation. And secondly, we were motivated by the fact that we don't always have to be more believers than the Pope. Because if the European legislation provides for a period of 3 months in such cases, that we do not have to realise it within 14 days, so we have proposed a more appropriate time-limit for our terms. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51388	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 22 for, 8 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51389	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51390	It becomes an integral part of the law. 6. also representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51391	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51392	It becomes an integral part of the law. 7. MP Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51393	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51394	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8. also representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51395	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51396	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9th Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51397	The government accepts the amendment. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51399	It becomes an integral part of the law. 10th also representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51400	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51401	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51402	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51403	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 12. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51404	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51405	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations in Transport. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 90 votes for, 5 abstentions and 1 against, the Law on compulsory transport insurance in the text was passed, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Investment Funds Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 394 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget, and European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51407	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! So here's what we see today in Croatia, we have a closed one, we have closed investment funds, open investment funds, an open private fund, under d) an open venture capital investment fund, a trust fund management company, and so on. the supervisory authority in the role of the Financial Services Supervisory Agency. But in order for us to even be able to discuss it, we need to know the following. Currently waiting for permission to start working on as many as 11 open investment funds. We mean when these investment funds are on Wednesday we're approaching 70 numbers and I say it's for a small country like the Republic of Croatia at least too much. I also assume that none of these funds are originally owned by Croatia. However, when I see who all these criminals have come out of conversion and privatisation and who have suddenly become Croatian society's caries, I don't see what they should have against foreign capital when it comes to foreign investment funds. At least they came to these premises with a little bit of capital. But to be precise. How did they get here? They took over banks and then they formed investment funds and pension funds and private investment funds in this country today. In one word, they took full financial sovereignty at the moment, so at the moment when the government left them to the bank. The active funds in the Republic of Croatia today are 46 and it seems that the age of funds has come in this country. Only open funds in 2006 will manage approximately 8.5 billion kuna assets. And it is estimated that in 2006, they will end up with about 85% more funds than they had in early 2005. Now, what's the big deal about all this? We have the impression that the government is in some way running ahead of the ore and that it wants to enable these funds to make this profit of 85% compared to this year 2005 and in some ways that is the essence of this law. On the other hand, however, the same question arises whether all these funds will survive. For example, with this ZB plus, you mean the Zagreb bank fund plus you have net assets of a billion and 500 million kuna but, for example, at the ST Euro Bond, their net assets are only 2.5 kuna. At the Privredna banka Zagreb, for example, they have about 400 million kuna and only 5 million kuna in the case of HBP. What are our investment funds investing in? They usually invest in domestic securities. In fact, in a way, these financial funds are following the state. It doesn't mean, say, external debt, but there's growing that domestic debt that's far more unfavourable, which here allows the state to finance its internal funding precisely through these investment funds. I agree, it may in some ways be the price for us as a country to avoid a debt blow, we pay more expensively to simply "act" one less debt. So, the pension of these funds with 4 billion 530 million kunas since the beginning of this year, the end of the year will be welcomed or will grow to 8 billion 370 million kuna. Our banks are also increasingly pushing their committees towards funds, because otherwise it is simply not possible to interpret this growth of these funds of at least 85% in one year. That's actually the point. So how do you interpret it? Next year as we know it, there goes the sale of Ina, Hrvatski Telekom, most likely Croatian, or Croat Insurance, and it will be a safe year in which our investment funds will be further motivated. However, the question arises, will these funds, for example, go to third-country markets over the next few years? Let's look at the growth of pension funds, it's 38%. Personally, I doubt the pension funds will grow at that rate in the next 2006. It is also clear that what I said earlier, that these pension funds are now in the hands of strangers up to one, four of them as many as we normally have in the Republic of Croatia, and that they will likely remain in due course. So how's your income going to grow on that financial market? Banks have an asset of cca 250 billion kuna and in 2006 it is estimated that this asset will rise by about 10%. Insurance companies have an asset of about 6 billion kuna and they will grow so when we consider that difference between life insurance and non-life insurance at some rate of 15% while our investment funds that grew at a rate of 85% next year could grow at 40%. Lising for cca 20%. So whoever has the money if he wants one good profit he missed in 2005 but can still count on extremely high yields in 2006. What does that mean in some way for the country's duty? Possible disaster, but clearly we simply cannot survive, we go one way towards one disaster so that we can survive at all. What we should achieve, say this law, is to raise the level of financial security and insurance and clear insurance and that should be it. These funds, in some ways, must also be brought into account together with the state in investing abroad. There's definitely a war behind us, and then there's a question of who our funds are going to work with, or financial institutions at all. Clearly, we can only work with those who are incomparably under quotes "weaker than us" which are primarily neighbors. Those who are better than us or better than our financial institutions, they make a clear profit in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that is the point, it is this absurd war that until yesterday I do not know how to shoot at each other, and today clearly how time moves away you must trade with each other. What is also another serious problem is the modest growth of housing savings, and I believe that this particular detail of our country should encourage, in some way, to bring down this residential mafia that at this point the housing meter sells for two, three, and thousands of euros. These savings must not be competition to anyone, especially they are not and should not be competition to banks but should be complemented by banks. But they suffer, and I don't know from year to year, they get worse and worse. We, therefore, marginalized those savings rather than bringing them closer to the citizens because of the needs of that young population that must in some way be housed or housed. Finally, I think that a whole report like this would have to put an emphasis on housing savings, and everything else, I don't think that at this point, not one institution, after we've lost that direct financial sovereignty, can affect us. All in all this is certainly one useful report, so much to be accepted, but we wanted to warn in front of the IDS club about some of the problems he's dealing with at the moment and the government, but I'm holding the country as a whole. The problem is much more serious than it looks.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51408	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Investment Funds Act. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Drazen Bosnjakovic. I'm asking Secretary of State Antu Zigman to show up on the amendments. We have an amendment from MP Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51410	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51411	It becomes an integral part of the law. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, amendments shall be made to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51412	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51413	It becomes an integral part of the law. 2. of the amendment to Article 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51414	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51415	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 45(3)
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51416	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51417	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 5 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51418	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51419	It becomes an integral part of the law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51420	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51421	It becomes an integral part of the law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51422	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51423	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 242(7)
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51424	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51425	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8th of Article 243 of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51426	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51427	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9th of Article 244th of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51428	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51429	It becomes an integral part of the law. 10th of Article 245 of the Treaty on the Functioning
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51430	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51431	It becomes an integral part of the law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51432	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51433	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 247 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51434	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51435	It becomes an integral part of the law. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51436	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51437	It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 249
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51438	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51439	It becomes an integral part of the law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51440	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51441	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Investment Funds Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, I accept the proposed Law and I give the vote the conclusion that the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to publish the editorial text to the investment funds before its publication in "The National Journal". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Next item - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 400 Proposer is Government. The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees. State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Zdravko Krmek will further explain the proposal. Here you go. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51443	Here's the thing about this Water Act. Is it possible to submit amendments to the same file...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51444	Until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51445	But it's only an hour, we won't be able to write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51446	By the end of the debate, that's the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51447	But sometimes we have a little different practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51448	We don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51449	We do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51450	Thank you very much. The other is the budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51451	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow me to introduce you to you on the important amendments to the Water Act. This law is harmonised to the maximum extent possible with the European Union Water Framework Directive, i.e.... and also in this section we are in line with the definitions, i.e. amendments and additions to this law of the territorial water management base are four water areas, which are parts of two international river basins while the water area is water management units. [[You don't understand.]] This law also abolishs the division of national and local waters, i.e. the first and second order waters, thus ensuring uniform water management. We are also changing the planning documents by introducing a water management strategy brought by the Croatian Parliament, water management plans and these plans by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and also the annual water management plan brought by the Croatian Water Ministry. It is also very important to note here that new tasks of Croatian Waters are introduced, which is to create and coordinate registers of protected water areas, i.e. the identification of waterbeds for drinking. We also made this law mandatory to monitor the state of water that also requires monitoring of surface waters, groundwaters and all protected water areas. I would also like to add here that we have also brought the means and conditions of using water for meliorative irrigation and for melioration disposal, and thus we have implemented part of the decentralisation of part of the water-economic competences and we will transfer them to the regional administration. We also set up water documentation management, which is integrated so that we have a new water information system. I would also like to add that there are no significant amendments to the law in the amendments and additions to this Law. This extensive number of articles that have been amended relate mainly to the harmonisation of definitions i.e. We are introducing new concepts relating to the state of the water, which also correspond to the relevant concepts in the European Union Water Framework Directive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51452	Thank you very much. The committees. Committee on For... [[Agreement: Pankretic appears for agriculture.]] Who's gonna do it sooner? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, here we go, the Committee on Space Planning and Environmental Protection, rapporteur President Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51453	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act with the Final Proposal for a Law at its 30th session held on 2 December 2005. The Committee considered the proposed Act as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In principle, it has been pointed out that most of the changes are made only in express nature and that changes in relation to the changes to the new planning documentation, water classification and the introduction of a water register without significant changes in water management. In view of the large number of amendments, however, it would be more appropriate, in the light of the individual opinion, to propose a new law, as this would facilitate its implementation. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority vote, 7 for and 1 against the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51454	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, the Honorable Representative of the Committee President Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51455	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has discussed this as the parent body of this Law. Following the opening statement of the Office's representative, the Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this Act by an urgent procedure. In the full debate on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, the Committee supported its adoption. The adoption of this Act will largely lead to compliance with the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union and will consistently implement the principle of integrated water management. As this proposal proposes extensive amendments and complements some members of the Committee, it would be more appropriate to propose a full law, not amendments and additions. The members of the Committee shall pay particular attention to the meliorative irrigation and shall be supported by the completion of the management and maintenance concept of hydromellation facilities with a view to improving the situation but provided that it is consistently implemented. It is pointed out in the debate that the implementation of this Law through sublegal acts which should be adopted by around 20 but which require water as a national wealth systematically and ultimately to protect it. Also in the signing of international financial commitments. The future water economy base as a strategic water management plan has never been adopted is the opinion that the water management strategy proposed by this Law should be drawn up as quickly as possible and sent to the Croatian Assembly. This Law singled out a new form of water use, which is the capture of drinking mineral and thermal water for sale and warned that the amount of compensation for that purpose could affect the economic viability of these activities. Manufacturers of these drinks indicate that the amount of compensation should be determined on the basis of exhausted quantities of water, rather than total income. It is also pointed out that although the economic price of water has a justification for its determination, real economic development frameworks for Croatia should be taken into account. On the basis of the implementation of the Committee, he supported the proposed Law and proposed it to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51456	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, European Integration, Legislativeness. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51457	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the adoption of this law. In our country, water is a common good that can not be owned or protected by its natural properties and has special protection of the Republic of Croatia. The versatile need of water and its presence in all human activities and natural processes makes water, water and economic activities extremely complex and demanding. This is an important reason for the need for the sustainability and tradition of this human activity, which we in Croatia have successfully spent for 130 years. The Croatian Democratic Community's club stands at the view that the waters in the Republic of Croatia must continue to be managed with care and rationality. The Republic of Croatia is classified among the richer countries of Europe according to the available quantities of water. About 60% of water wealth is generated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia while about 40% are, while about 40% is the external contributions of neighbouring countries. Most river basins, including groundwaters, have a largely cross-border character. All activities in the economy should therefore be linked because they have partly the causes and consequences in neighbouring countries. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has regulated international contracts with the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has adopted the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea and its two protocols governing the issue of sea protection against pollution from land. The Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waters and International Lakes, the Convention on Cooperation in the Protection of Sustainable Use of the Danube River, and several other conventions governing water management issues. The legal status of water and aquatic goods, water management methods and conditions, the way water can be exploited by the powers of their rights, the basic conditions for carrying out the activities of the water economy, the powers and duties of the entire state administration and local administration and other issues relevant to water management are governed by the 1995 Water Act. This Law also established a legal person for the management of Croatian waters with the status of an institution. We have already brought it into line with the relevant European Economic Community directives in the area of water. In 2000, however, the European Union adopted a Framework Directive on waters which obliges members of the European Union to comply with its legislation in the area of water but also with other directives adopted in previous years. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union has undertaken the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring national legislation into line with Union legislation which is very complex and extensive for the area of water. The proposer of this law therefore proposes that amendments and additions should only be made in part in compliance with European Union rules, in particular with the Water Framework Directive, and full compliance with the implementation of the CARDS 2003 project, which provides for the creation of a strategy and an action plan of harmonisation to be implemented over the next 2 years. As it has been almost 10 years since the adoption of the applicable Water Act, while several laws have been passed that regulate matters of major importance for the water economy and the implementation of the applicable law, the proposer proposes that compliance be carried out with these laws. In the application of the applicable law, some shortcomings in water management have also been observed, which will also be eliminated by this law. The amendment and addition of the Water Act extends the jurisdiction of the law to the coastal sea in such a way that its provisions on water protection apply also to the coastal sea. The law also introduces new concepts relevant for water management. The principles of water management will be harmonised with the Directive. The division of water into national and local waters will be replaced by the division of waters I and II. order to enable the implementation of the principle of integrated water management. Up until now, the executive way of building regulatory and protective water structures is changing. The construction of these buildings will be carried out according to a construction programme brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A technical and economic maintenance of the water flow of water good regulation water protection structures and the basic buildings of the melioration drain will be carried out according to the water flow and other water management programme, which is part of the water management plan. The national role in the construction of water buildings for the use of water and water protection is implemented according to the State Investment Programme. The territorial basis for water management remains our 4 water areas so far, with water areas joining the international areas of the Danube River and the Adriatic River in order to form management of international water areas. The existing water management plan base is changed and edited to 3 levels. At national level, this is a water management strategy brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. At the water level, it is a water management plan, the water areas brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the operational level, this is a water management plan, which, together with the decisions to implement the plan, is adopted by the Administrative Council of Croatian Waters, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of the water economy. The previous procedure for adopting a water management strategy and water management plans will include mandatory information to the public, consultation of water users from industry, agriculture, local self-government units and elsewhere, and encouraging these water users to participate in important water management issues. This law also regulates other important issues such as the methods and conditions of water use for melioration disposal, as well as the technical gentlemen's maintenance of meliorative facilities that are now moving into the jurisdiction of our counties. Implementation of water monitoring measures, water management methods, simplification of the procedure in the issue of water acts, regulation of detailed conditions for the award of concessions for the capture of drinking, mineral and thermal waters for sale on the market, definition of additional tasks of Croatian waters, the keeping of registers of protected areas, the keeping of the registers of concessions, the collection of concession fees and the identification of water deposits for drinking, the shortened registration procedure in land books, the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on property acquired by a ten-year record, which are in the legal regime of public water goods. Finally, I would point out that the provisions of this law are in line with EU rules, in particular with the Water Framework Directive, and compliance with other European Union regulations will be implemented in the process of adopting sublegal acts and implementing an action plan of harmonisation. And in the end, I would point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51458	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that there are not too many interested in this topic, although I personally think this is an extremely important topic, and I will try to do so in my own presentation in some way and prove it, and agreeing with that professional part of which my colleague Širac spoke about. Of course here in my debate I would like to warn of the importance, importance, national importance of water. We have established that Croatia is rich in water and it is in fifth place in Europe, according to these latest studies, with a wealth of water. But that doesn't mean it's a fortune and it's optimal to master that wealth. What is the problem and which we are all aware of is that the problem is drying or in the tourist season when on the Adriatic coast and islands the number of water users is significantly increasing, unfortunately, in the situation that water is insufficient. There is little and no financial "instruments" under quotes that would strengthen water conservation. There is also a lack of drain systems among the grudges, although the legal framework for their establishment is called good. The estimated average annual water consumption in Croatia per capita is 50 cubic metres. According to Croatian Waters, we have 40% of the population has a connection to sewer systems, they have built 82 waste water treatment devices and 35 marine discharges. The use of water does not have an economic price, and is paid in a range of 3 kunas to about 14 kuna, for example on Lastovo if the price is not increased by a cubic meter. No market price does not allow investment and development, so the supply drain systems in Croatia are outdated, and water losses are huge. Overall, it turns out that the current water management system in Croatia is bad for the time it comes because water will certainly come from the category of something very cheap, very affordable and what it should in reality be understandablely more priced, and who will lose, and who gains the big question. The water-economic foundation of Croatia, a strategic document for water management that makes Croatian waters and that there was no water in the Croatian economy, was long developed, but was not unfortunately adopted. The changes dictate obligations to join the European Union as well as the fact that the interest that foreign investors have long shown towards Croatia's water Eldorado is likely to begin and specify soon. We have certain initiatives already. I may in principle point out that the United Nations declared the period 2005 to 2015 with decades of water for life that officially started with the World Water Day, March 22, 2005. The primary goal is to reduce at least half the number of people who do not have access to healthy water. What is the situation in Croatia? I think it's a question for all of us. Unfortunately, even in many, many of our environments, especially in rural areas, we haven't ensured that water is in every home and I think it's one of the very big and burning problems. Water sources must not be privatised but must remain state-owned and managed by units of local administration and Croatian waters. We haven't had any insight into the strategy yet. We sincerely hope that such a request, such an attitude, is envisaged in the strategy, because if that is not the case then surely the problem of water will be further updated. Waters should certainly be kept from pollution and pollution, but what is a particular danger is also from sales, or privatisation. The danger is already very specific and it is not born just in some heads. I would very commendably say here, our Franciscans have on one of their round tables very clearly warned about this problem. I'd say it's one of the main ones who's pushing for such a problem to happen. Danger from the World Monetary Institution that condition certain loans and also our country by creating a specific legislation that allows water privatisation. I must say that in this part of the water fight in the future, all those dealing with this problem are very clearly saying that water will be more important than oil today. In this part of Croatia too, it must clearly protect its wealth in its strategy. We are aware that in certain adaptation processes which are and which we must do since we want to join the European Union, we must protect our national interests. The water is national treasure, Croatia is rich in water, but let's be careful about the wealth we have for our people. Let's let them keep one, I'd say, the price that's acceptable to our people comes to that water. I think we've had, unfortunately, some problems that are related to concessions so far. We also have certain concession contracts that are concluded without unfortunately a public tender. One such example is also in the City of Zagreb regarding the system of purification, but without distinction, I think that this Law clearly defines the way of concessions, but it also determines that in the section related to concessions there is more order. When we speak in that part of the multi-order, then this very clearly means that certain concession contracts should be done in a way that also units of local self-government or regional administrations and self-government have a certain remuneration, have a certain rent in a part of there that should belong to them fairly, but also that certain companies that are clearly exploiting in this part of the water can certainly pay for that part that they take advantage of, and that it is in a certain way justly divided. That anyone in that section doesn't profit. I think it should be said that abolishing the division of state and local waters and introducing first and second order waters is a good proposal in this law. It is also proposed to establish a suitable melioration system here as well. Perhaps even in the end, here, to allow myself to quote from an article, which means that this relationship with which I spoke about the strategic meaning of water, which means that when some multinationals come to some water springs, there is no such thing as excessive concern and excessive order in that part so far. What can this mean in a certain way for the future? Poor countries like Croatia will not be able to cope with these multinational "deals" and will likely be forced to privatise their water wealth in exchange for World Bank loans. If we let that happen, it could be the beginning of our end, because water is certainly the greatest wealth of our country. One of, let's be realistic, rare advantages over the Europe we seek. The water must remain in Croatian hands because otherwise we will be left without what can provide the future as we wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51460	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain, IDS representative club. Here you go. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You told your colleague, I'll quote you, "The Franciscans have warned us about the preservation of the wealth of water." Not only have they warned us, but they are begging us to keep the greatest treasure in Croatia, quoting: "Praise be my sister-in-law, she who is useful, humble, dear and pure, Holy Francis of Assic."
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51462	Is that a correction to an incorrect quote? There's a Roman saying about taking advantage of patience. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51463	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Here's what I'm going to do with this controversy better if someone's hand is dry than they're going to privatize the spring and our plumbing, but with that I'm going to end up, I'm actually going to speak clearly before that, but what do I mean? This is a good law, it should be supported, except in part of Article 31, which is still the gentlemen of the barata with the concept of cadastrian income, and this category has long since been abolished by our general financial law which means this catastrian term no longer knows and which farmers clearly do not pay. However, what should be done is for cities, i.e. municipalities on which these accumulations are based and which are covered by these protection zones, of which under the quotes "hendikepa" because some regular economic activity cannot take place in these areas, on the other hand, they still benefit because of this resource and certain benefits. So they need to be provided with certain resources in that space. I agree, the means of stitches that the county prescribes are so expensive that the peasants can't even use them anymore, but that's what I'm saying that our peasants are limited in using these properties and therefore, coming from the city of Buzet, let me first of all bring out a series of objections to this city. Namely, to us, the MPs from... the election units of the mayor and others have addressed with a request for an amendment to Article 31 and shall supplement paragraph 3 of Article 42. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Laws in amendments to the Water Act. In a draft final draft of the Law, they say no amendment to Article 31 was covered but remained unchanged. That's that cadastrian income. I think that it must be in the interest of all of us to be in the interest that this notion of which is crucially influenced, I think, Mr Seks, to be removed from the legal and regulatory framework, in line with what is today being said to the legal gains, not of the European Union, but of the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and in so many of the cities of Buzet, clearly through us, that this new formulation suggests that the units of the local self-government of the city, in whose area there are accumulations, retentions, origins or zone of sanitary protection, whose purpose is legal and physical persons in the area of the second unit of local self-government, the city is benefiting from renting, means of compensation, and that is the essence. So rent, compensation is a compensation for the limited development of units of local self-government in which rent is accumulated and Article 1 pays units of local self-government in which the area benefit from accumulation, retention, etc. It is clear that it is also necessary in these final provisions to provide for a period for the introduction of the rent, whether it will be 3 months or 6 months from the entry into force of this Law, it is now entirely irrelevant, but it certainly needs to be done. How do these people who live off that water explain their comments with that problem? They say that since the draft final draft law in other articles proposed to amend affects the regulation of water protection issues, i.e. the accumulation of springs and sanitary protection zones, it is necessary to amend this article. Article 31 defines the possibility of introducing rent compensation for the area of accumulation or retention due to the need to preserve water as a strategic resource clearly throughout the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 40, areas of sanitary protection shall be established, zones shall be reserved and, in particular, protected by certain areas in order to avoid pollution of the source of drinking water. Now let me somehow convince you, for example, the city of Buzet has been for decades since the 1930s. and some when Mussolini built a spring there and pulled a water line across Istria, it was only good that it was made in those 20 years, so for decades it's been a town of water and we have in our city 3 springs, St. John, Bullage and accumulation of Butonig from which we provide water for drinks throughout Istria or for the entire Istrian peninsula. The release into operation in 2001 of a water conditioning facility with a thousand-litre capacity per second completed the first phase of this Butoniga, with the possibility of clearly increasing it to 2,000 liters per second over a certain period. In the area of the city, there are also 3 companies with production, distribution and water protection activities, and these are Istrian plumbing, VSI water line Butoniga and IVS Istrian water protection system. Now what's going on? At the meeting of the Istria County Assembly on 1.8.2005, a decision was taken on the areas of sanitary protection of drinking springs in Istria's County, which predicts 4 zones, and everything in parts is clearly located because it is logical in the city of Buzet. For example. The most mild of these 4 zones prohibits the release of uncleaned waste materials, the construction of buildings of chemical and pharmaceutical industries and industrial facilities without public disposal systems, prohibiting the construction of state, county roads with no rainwater purifiers, which is clear that it collects life for every investor, primarily the city in those areas. 3 restricted zone and control prohibits the disposal of waste, the construction of landfills and use of pesticides. I'm saying that for the city of Buzet problem, but a similar problem is probably everywhere in Croatia. 2 The strict limit zone prohibits agricultural production other than eco-agricultural, livestock production and prohibits it, except clearly for household, cemetery construction, construction of all industrial plants, construction of state and county roads, etc., and 1 sanitary area prohibits everything and clearly has to be fenced. Now, this city of Buzet, and I said it's probably elsewhere and around this spring of water, or lakes on Cres, and I don't know in Rijeka, etc. It extends over a surface of 167,5 square kilometers. Even 38% or 62.4 kilometers is covered by sanitary protection zones from which 1 and 2 zones cover 18% of the city's surface. It means a populated area, I don't know the Local Committee Buzet, Vrha, Huma, Roča, and the population is clearly out of that economic activity, we're lucky that only 3% of the population are unemployed, we're almost unemployed, we're importing labour from Slovenia, but outside of that the population is exclusively concerned with agricultural production, i.e. higher and higher than such water regimes can't deal with this production. In addition, the accumulation of Butonig covers 3 zones of protection and extends in the area of the city of Buzet, Pazina and Cerovlje Municipality. Some parts of the entire unit of local self-government or several of them falling into sanitary protection zones have been disabled, I would say, in this uninterrupted development whether it is agriculture, whether it is industry, whether it is traffic and so on. The Water Act now gives the right to a city in which there are accumulations or retentions, whose purpose is for legal or physical persons in the area of another city, i.e. municipalities benefit from rent, or compensation. This is Article 31, however, this possibility has not been used so far because of the lack of sublegal rules and the legal basis for the calculation of the rent, above all in this land cut and that is what the emphasis should be placed on in the debate on this Act. At times, it was likely because of the lack of these sanitary protection zones with rent to cover the accumulation or retention itself, but today it is not because of the strict criteria and inability to use the area of sanitary protection in these free uses. I want to repeat once again that it means the most important, most valuable resource of the city of Buzet, I am always with people to see it, it is always water and thus Istria and Croatia and from it you see one such city neither can live nor live. And moreover, by determining the sanitary zone, that life in the area of that city is kind of "stopping". It also confirms the example always from the field. There is a huge dissatisfaction of the population, probably the city, and I believe that so throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially with us around the Butoniga dam because of these legal solutions that have preferred always the consumer, means the one who uses this water and never the one who has the land in the immediate environment of that accumulation. Preparations are under way today, such as the Croatian waters are also being carried out for another retention. They're ducks. It's a tenkm circus from Buzet, a few kilometers from Butoniga, and it's a logical dissatisfaction of the local population and unprepared now for the co-operation of the population around the sale of land because it will lose another possibility of a naked survival on its grandfather. We will no longer allow them to hunt in these areas, and that is also one source of existence. I don't know how to take any more radical action to make statements, not just on the city council, not just among citizens, and it's clear that I will personally support those citizens, even though I am aware that we are ultimately hurting ourselves, which is absurd, but how to simply draw attention to this problem that I'm trying to describe. That we have this one resource that's immeasurable in cash, etc. and that actually life around it is paralyzed and that the unit at which these springs are found is "no" benefit at all. The areas that mean ensuring this water are limited in development, they do not, I will say again, no compensation, no satisfaction materially and this law should enable them because it is not the problem of the town of Buzet itself, it is a problem throughout the Republic of Croatia. As regards Article 42 of the final draft of the law of the gentleman in the city of Buzet, they propose to amend that paragraph of Article 42 in such a way that the compensation is imposed for a specific period of time to settle the actual costs of investments, with the prior consent of the municipalities and cities to which the area is concerned. This explains that the text of the amendments and amendments provides for the addition of Article 42 to the new paragraphs, with the exception of the article, the specific compensation which can be imposed at the price of the water delivered to direct users for the purpose of paying costs and increased investments in the water supply system and the public waste disposal system in the sanitary protection zones is regulated. It is clear that there is always a question of what will be the height of the special fee, on which the deadline will be introduced, what will be built, who will manage these facilities later. The activities of municipal activities are solely within the competence of local self-government units under Article 134. The Constitution as well as the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The proposed formulation gives fiscal and legislative authority to the county and in the budget of the municipality and the city it should be as only a transitional item. The decentralisation process, the government's deconcentrations, say in the city of Buzet, must not go as right as they are since the disenfranchisement of municipalities and cities. Now, we're going to the meeting of the Istrian County Assembly on 1.8.2005. They have now made a decision on the areas of sanitary protection of drinking water springs in Istria County that obliges municipalities and cities in the budgets to provide funds in the amount of one kuna per cubic metre of water delivered. We determine the time limit on which these one kuna special fees are imposed and what and by what dynamics the municipalities and cities will receive for these funds. In view of the water consumption in Istria, the wage is at an annual level of 20 million kuna or 10% of the county budget of only 200 million kuna. Someone will say it's an Istrian problem. Absolutely. No one consulted me about it, etc. when they brought it in. In the end, these 20 million kunas will return to one manufacturing company, I don't know, or the production of sewers in Buzet, which is certainly good, but I think the city must participate as well as other units of local self-government. All in all, I believe that this is a useful law, that this law should be supported but that I think that some legal illogicality about this cadastrian income, etc. It is simply necessary to comply with the general financial law because, as an institute, there is no longer, and preferably, in the position of co-decision to place cities, municipalities in whose territory these retentions of origin and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51464	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51465	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government and Croatian Waters! I first have one remark. I think we should have a united discussion about amending the Water Law and amending the Water Economy Act because we speak independently of each other, you know we can talk here for hours about the Water Act, you see how thick it is and in principle it is when you look at the text and you see what is proposed and what is changed in the Water Act. I'm gonna be this sharp, so I'm gonna say it's all make-up. In 1994, as I recall, in 1995 and 1996, my colleague Shirac spoke here and the Water Act was in attendance. Prior to that, the restructuring of the public business of Croatia's water industry was carried out, I think it was called that, and that is the sector where many things have been resolved already at that time. So when it was right after "Storm" when Croatia had a lot of major problems in that sector it was already going forward I would say and many things have been well made and a law that I believe is compatible with the European Union Water Framework Directive, although here, I don't know who this... calculated by you or someone else, that 9% of the Water Act is in line with the Framework Directive, so the existing Water Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know which one it is, I don't understand that interest account or that math, and how it got to that 9%, but unfortunately it's not even in line right now because these same suggestions say whether it's on page 1, is that it? Page 1. So when the "Cards" project called Harmonising Croatia's legislative in water with the relevant EU directives ends, it will take another two years. So it is likely that this House will still have this mandate if we await the full mandate of amending and supplementing this Law. So, on the other hand, make-up when you look further at page 2 of the harmonised Law with other laws of the Republic of Croatia, so it's easy to read what's being coordinated. It's not called a building anymore. It's called a water building. Other shortcomings on page 3. The remaining shortcomings are also easy to see what is in line and when you look at the consequences of the adoption of the law and again everything is connected to the EU directive, and the most interesting thing is when you look at 5, 4 and 5 basic issues that will be regulated by law, so when you look at what these 10 points are, here I, from this place, argue that this is regulated by the previous Law. So the existing Law is all arranged except rhetoric. Except for rhetoric because there's nothing arranged, but I'm going to say something now that was necessary to assess if even in a broader discussion, in a broader analysis of what can be done in this sector? The Water Act and the Water Economy Act regulate one matter that is very important. So it's using water where it belongs and water supplies that most of you itch. It's water protection and it's water protection. This second, you know these concessions, norming it's less important even though it doesn't matter. It is very important and there is no one, what Pankretic said no one has a private source in Croatia even those who think they have existing laws. Now that you're looking at these three sectors that should be regulated by these, this law therefore by one law and another that will probably be discussed tonight or tomorrow it's a matter that's simply everything... And all the matter and all these activities that surround us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about roads or highways, we count that both construction and maintenance must be paid by users. So the ones driving. When you look here and then someone who uses water either in water supply or for something else he should pay for that water. Water protection so those who pollute the polluter must pay, but you have one segment that you don't know who they'd tell to pay for, which is what it is. Water protection or flood defense. Now what does that look like to you? In the water supply Croatia has some 76% of the population that is connected to the water supply. Your range is, I don't know if anything has improved in this last year and a half since I'm not the Director of Water from 32% in Koprivnica County, or what's called Koprivnica-Krisjevačka County up to 34,35 in Bjelovar County up to 95% in some Adriatic counties. That's where clearly Istria went the most. My county can't complain, even though there are many more places that don't have water, and so we have a complete, total imbalance. When you have in mind that 25% of the population is still watery, and you have in mind that 40% of the population of Croatia lives in settlements from 0 to 2000 people you can think about what places they don't have yet, and the question is when will they get it? If you testify that it is again under the Law on the municipal economy obligations of local self-government, then they will never get it. So, as budgets are being done, no matter who the Government of the State budgets are, who they were in power, they're going after your grandmother and your uncles, they're pulling on their own, into their region as much as they can, and that's one problem that I don't see any problems for, especially because he's still a communal problem, and we should start thinking about doing not county utility companies but regional utility companies that would take care of a water supply solution and this population that has no water supply and also to improve the water supply of this population that has water supply. You know especially those who come from that field that many parts of Eastern Slavonia drink water that is sanitaryly incorrect. Well, that's about the water supply as soon as possible. As far as water protection is concerned, there's an even bigger problem. 14% somewhere or something underneath that sewer system. Well, I forgot to say something that 300 million cc's are delivered to Croatia over the scale. 300 million cc's. One 65 to 70% is paid, and all that water afterwards has to go into the sewer. Of course. That's 40% of your sewers. 60% is not solved, and there's no telling where it's going, and it's being cleaned up somewhere at 12 to 14%. So of these 300 million cubics, how total consumption is for water supply in Croatia. It also seems easy to charge for the polluter. But you know it is easy in the middle like the City of Zagreb with its ring that has a consumption of 90 million cubic metres. Well, it's easy because it's a game of big numbers, so it's easy to do. So it's easy to make a device, no matter how commercially justified, how not justified. It is easy to do that in Split and it is a very large share of the state. It's easy in many other cities. But you have many settlements, for example, in tourist areas that have a 1 winter consumption and 20 summers. I'm talking about ratios. And who's gonna do this to them? Who's gonna make them? So it all had to be thought when it comes to the law. And that's one big problem. The state also owes and invests in these systems, but it is still far, far from a solution and we will spend more years not telling decades not to reach the level that the 15 countries of the European Union today have. However, there is now this hardest and worst segment of the sector. And that's water protection. Croatia, you know how many rivers there are so-called rivers. in the state category now of first order and stream and stream of second row. The one who went to elementary and high school as rich as we are with those rivers and streams. Now I'm just going to tell you some numbers. In Croatia it was built, in socialism 2 thousand 4 hundred kilometers of embankment, to defend against floods, with all the water buildings. Do you know how much it's built now in a democratic state? I don't know how to add it to meters, very little and nothing. Now, besides that, thousands of channels have been built, thousands of regulatory structures have been built. I can get you those numbers, so when I talk about funding the water economy tomorrow. So this is something that has been built before, which has been calculated in Croatian waters as a minimum for maintaining 400 million kuna per year. You've been taking it out of me since 2000. 287 to 2005. 105 million. The water contribution was abolished in '98. with the obligation legally to subsidise from the state budget and that was never respected because the funds were more necessary elsewhere. Now, this is where you get the situation you know that you can't charge the road to whoever's using the road, the railroad to whoever's using the railroad, the water, the water supply to whoever's using the water supply, but this is a matter of solidarity. Who will pay for this maintenance of the facilities that serve to defend against the flood? Who are you going to burden, who is he? So without the principle of solidarity, there is no solution to that problem. And I don't see and with this going to get rid of, I don't see, it's clear in that second bill of law, that the extension of this law is being talked about and we're going to talk about it, I think something's going to happen that those who propose a state budget won't have any more obligation to think about it. Well, that's what it says here. The adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Water Act does not create a commitment to the financial impact on the state budget. There's just one missing, something missing. There is no financial impact, but there is something missing that there will be no more obligation of the state budget to worry about it. You know there wasn't a flood in '64. in Zagreb, what would this status be, what would this sector have in the first place. But that flood can also happen quickly. Water levels are very high, rains are announced, we can have floods this week and you will see how much is missing in this sector and how much investment is needed in this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51466	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Kajo Butan. And forgive me, pardon me, dear representative of Jure Bithunjac. Then Kayo Butan will go after that if he comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51467	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here, I'm going to put out a few of my thoughts and ideas about a law that is very important and that can be said for great attention, especially people who deal with the water economy, meaning communal societies... Water supplies, commissioners, mayors, and I can also tell the wider Croatian public, although we are here tonight discussing this law, I believe that the basis of the proposed solutions and our thinking that the competent ministry and government will make appropriate decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Water Act, as is known, was passed in December 1995, and in the meantime a series of laws have been passed or amended that have penetrated the water economy. Only in this assembly of parliaments, the last 2 years have been passed or amended as regards the law in question, the Law on the municipal economy, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, the Law on Nature Protection, the Law on Forests, and a series of regulations and sublegal acts adopted by the Government, or the competent state bodies. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union has entered into the process of harmonising national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and these amendments are also heading towards harmonisation of the Water Act with the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union. All of these are the reasons for the amendments and the addition of the existing law. Above all, and right here, I think this is an opportunity to talk about water as a natural wealth, that water management strategy is a matter of particular national interest and that in the era of globalisation processes we preserve water and sovereignty over water potential as an indispensable factor and prerequisite for the current and future development of the Republic of Croatia. The question, therefore, is water and water management is a first-class national issue that needs to be clearly and publicly defined through legislation. What the widest Croatian public is interested in, the simplest of our citizens is water supply and disposal. This is a life issue, without neglecting the meaning of irrigation, draining, flood protection and other activities arising from the water economy. What's going on on the world water market? What is the situation in Croatia? Are the existing legal frameworks, the laws relating to the water economy, ensuring national interest? These are questions to which we are now part, but as soon as possible we must give a complete and precise answer. In the world market, water conflicts with two bipolar water management concepts. One water is perceived, one water is treated like any other commodity, as a global commodity, advocates privatization of the water sector, and this means creating a private monopoly over public services and thus ensuring high profit rates. The second concept advocates a public sector monopoly. So the municipality, the city, the state of public services, such as water supply, comes from the fact that water is God's gift, a gift of nature over which no one has the right to earn money. Water according to this concept, as a general good, is required to exclude the company from market imposition. Of course, even under this concept, water must have its own price that end-users must directly or indirectly pay, but the public sector is the only regulator. What's most important, the profit is off. Profit's not the target. The public sector dominates the water business in Croatia. However, the legislative regulation opens up various possibilities, water supply and disposal are in the jurisdiction of municipalities, cities, as defined by the Law on the municipal economy, Article 3. The operation of the municipal activities of the local self-government unit is done through the establishment of companies in which they must have a majority stake, i.e. 50+1 shares, public institutions, their own facilities, or by concession contract. Not only the competent ministry and us in the Assembly, but also the general public are well aware of the attempts, i.e. the opening of negotiations to enter into the ownership of international corporations into certain companies, water companies, which have been fairing in financial difficulties and which have offered to get out of the existing financial situation, and in the long term they have been of particular interest. Fortunately it did not happen but possible combination of foreign investors or private sector when it comes to Croatia is still open. . /. Since the water sector in Croatia is installed through three laws, the Water Act, the Water Economy Financing Act and the Law on the municipal economy. A water management strategy and a Croatian water policy need to define views on... privatisation in this important segment. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I will support and advocate legal solutions and the Croatian water policy that is going on, that is, which should come from the following points to me. First, water is a human right, generally good, a people's wealth that requires balanced policy with restrictions on the challenges of a globalised market, so water is a question of national sovereignty. Secondly, water policy must have an institutional structure that will prevent competition... entities, state entities on water whether it is financing, whether it is protecting priorities etc. [[You don't understand.]] Thirdly, to exclude any form of privatisation and partnership, the rights to water resources, which means that public supply allocations should be entrusted exclusively to local authorities in the service area, rather than to utility companies, regardless of which they are now in public ownership and may be in private tomorrow. Fourthly, the acquisition of concessions for economic purposes should not be denied to the private sector, I think it is under the proposal of this law, by amending the law that is well defined before us. Public water supply has priority in other forms of water use. The sixth, municipal water infrastructure should be owned exclusively by local self-government units through the reform of the municipal water sector, i.e. by companies, public ownership operators in the area of water infrastructure and transferred exclusively to local self-government units. The seventh, privatisation and partnership, means to leave the driving functions in the municipal water sector possible with strict rules of the game. In the end, I would like to say that these amendments and amendments to the laws introduce more order into the water economy. Priority is given to water protection that is obvious, but introduces order and enables economic use of water potentials. I also believe that local units where the springs are located and where the waterways are used for economic purposes, especially when it comes to electricity production, I will only mention the flow of the river Cetina, where there are four hydropower plants of Peruca, Orlovac, Kraljec and Zakučac, whose power is 900 megawatts, and the annual value of produced electricity moves about a billion and 250 million must, so local self-government units from that area must benefit more significantly for the simple reason that they are based on the Water Law when it comes to water protection, deprived and limited in their development. However, when it comes to funding models for this in the next point, and in some ways I think it will be necessary, if not in these amendments, it is not possible, but surely in the new law when it comes to funding the water economy and in the Water Act, to carry out a steady decentralisation, but the preservation of water as a national wealth is possible only through one real adequate legislative regulation, and I hope that on these changes too, in particular, when it comes to the adoption of new laws from the water economy segment, we will reach consensus in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51468	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, with an associate. I will take a brief look at these amendments to the Water Law. The question is, why does the Water Act change? In the ten years of its application, there has been an amendment to a series of laws relating to the water economy with which it is necessary to comply with the provisions of this law by the Law on the System of State Administration, the Budget Act, the Construction Act and a series of other laws. The obligation to comply with the Water Act with the European Union Framework Directive on Waters is a huge task which we have heard for two years, until full compliance with the relevant provisions of the directive with the adoption of sublegal acts. During the application of the Water Act, a number of misunderstandings, shortcomings, limiting factors for the implementation of this law have been observed and finally this Government has put before us a proposal for amendments and additions that are comprehensive, detailed and clear implementation. This law better regulates the conditions for the use of water for meliorative irrigation and disposal and technical and economic maintenance of basic meliorating facilities. The status of gravel and sand was resolved during construction works on the technical and economic maintenance of the waterway. More detailed monitoring water has been arranged, which I think is extremely important in order to preserve water and plan its use in the future. The process of issuing water law has been simplified, thus avoiding administrative gaps with county offices for the economy. The period of validity of the water legal acts is one-of-a-kind. The award of concessions for economic activities on water such as rafting, rafting, canoeing, etc. where these sports activities are carried out as economic activities. Additional tasks of Croatian waters such as the keeping of registers of protected areas are defined, the management of the witness concessions, the collection of concession fees and the identification of water deposits for drinking in accordance with the Water Framework Directive, etc. There's a series of new improvements. I would certainly stress that water as a national treasure should be systematically protected and we must be aware that water is not non-consumable. The quantities and quality of the water that Croatia has rarely has that country in the world. It is therefore necessary to draw up a water management strategy as soon as possible and refer to the adoption of the Croatian Assembly. I made my remarks on the proposed law with the purpose of improving or correcting certain provisions in the amendments with my colleague Mark Shirc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51470	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51471	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I wouldn't have had too much to add to what my colleague Marasovic was saying, but I'm still going to say a few sentences and I'm going to be brief, so I'm going to connect these two laws because both of them are complementary. So today we are discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act and the second is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. In my opinion, these two laws regulate the use of water, hence drinking, thermal and mineral for sale, and then they regulate water protection and these laws regulate the financing of the water economy. Water is generally good and it must be available to everyone. However, according to all scientific and professional knowledge for 30 to 35 years in the world, there will be an extremely large water shortage and what is in the world of oil today is going to be water in 30 to 35 years' time. Thank God Croatia has plenty of water. Once again, according to scientific and professional assessments in our country, we are in third place in Europe by the amount of water. Here we heard yesterday on the board of the secretary of state that there are 45 million cc's of drinking water in Croatia, therefore, renewable water, which means that there are 9 cc's on each of the Croatians of renewable water, which is extremely good and just before our colleague Marasovic talked about the 300 million cc's of water we spend. So that's one very, very respectable, one very respectable figure. It is good in these laws that the waters of national and local are lifted and the waters of first and second order are introduced. Then, since I am binding a debate on one law and another, and therefore I am giving up this other law, despite Croatia's virtually lying on the waters, when we look at our agriculture today we are here below the European and world average. Because of the total agricultural area, we water between 1 and 1.5% of the area. So that's something that absolutely doesn't serve us the honor. The use of water in our country, given the importance of water and the quality of Croatian waters, must be, regardless of how much water is available to everyone as a source of life, but it must be first-class, national, national public interest. So, state, public, national interest. It's a good thing no one can buy water, which no one can buy. We can't, for example, sell Sava, Drava, we can't sell Zrmanja, Krka, but we can give a concession and we can all benefit from that. As for water protection, we must protect both groundwater and groundwater. One of the biggest water pollutants, what counterpart Marasovic just said was drain water. However, we also have a large polluter for agriculture. Agriculture uses mineral fertilisers and uses chemical agents to protect plants called pesticides. It is extremely dangerous in the karst part of Croatia where, after the use of any mineral fertilisers, any chemical means for plant protection, when we very negligently wash the dishes we used to protect plants and then throw it in the water, either in the ground. Of course that through the waterproof system of the ground also comes to groundwater and it is polluted. That is why all water polluters must be obliged to sanction it, but what is most important should be regulated so that this does not occur in view of the importance of water in our country. Then one of the great reasons is why water is to give first - class meaning and to protect ourselves from floods. We saw this year what we had in those floods. Then drain canals should also be regulated, so in all those places where possible, we need to regulate and train these channels that at any time when the flood occurs they can accept certain amounts of water and simply drive it away. Since everything needed to be said for water, I would only mention ponds, since this is more in this second Water Economy Financing Act, that ponds should be treated as agricultural land and so the water used in the ponds is charged as if agricultural land were being irrigated, given that Croatian freshwater fisheries are heavily burdened by the use of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51472	Thank you. Final, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51473	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, here, thank all those who took part in the presentation because we think that the amendments and additions to the Water Act are extremely important. And especially for reasons like some of you said, that water is our national treasure and that we must really do everything to protect them in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51474	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51475	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act. State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. You have a plate. Thank you. Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51476	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51477	Thank you. The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. 2. also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51478	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51479	It becomes an integral part of the law. A little louder please and a little more peace. 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51480	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51481	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th MP, Nika Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51482	The government doesn't. Accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51483	You want to show yourself without this dramatic pause so it's clear yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51484	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51485	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51486	The amendment is addressed to the Water Act, which is the substance of the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51487	Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51488	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51489	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. The difference is Secretary of State... 5. Representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51490	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51491	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51492	The Government shall adopt an amendment with a correction so that paragraph 2 is amended in a way that the regulation referred to in paragraph 1 will regulate the procedure and forms of mandatory information to the public and the participation of water users. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51493	I don't need an explanation because I see that the amendment promoter is in agreement with this agreement with this amended. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 7th representative of Nika Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51494	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The amendment is addressed to the Water Act, which is the substance of the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51495	Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51496	Given the explanation, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51497	Thank you. 8. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51498	The Government does not accept the amendment with reasons, the statement introduces this fee for a specified period of time necessary to settle the actual investment costs but exists in the unchanged paragraph 2 of Article 42. In addition to the previous consent of municipalities and cities for which the area is not acceptable, we have already provided for the possibility for the County Assembly to decide on the introduction of a special fee instead of units of local self-government. In the 10 years of the life of this Act, no case has been recorded that one unit of local self-government using water from the source of another unit has decided to introduce a special fee to finance the increased investment in the area of that other unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51499	Thank you. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51500	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51501	Please, let's get on with it. There's a vote to vote on. We can vote. The result? 15 for, 4 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51502	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Explanation, for the same reasons as the same amendment of the Club of IDS Representatives and Representatives of Damir Cain under number eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51503	It means yes, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51504	Since it is the same content, the result would probably be the same, so I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51505	The consumable amendment does not need to be voted or withdrawn. 10th Amendment of Representative Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51506	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51507	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51508	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51509	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 12th is the representative of Marko Širtz and Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51510	The government accepts the amendment with correction so that the words "legal individuals" are replaced by the words "legal owners". Explanation, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51511	Thank you very much. The proposed amendments shall be adopted in this amended form. It becomes an integral part of the law. 13. also representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51512	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51513	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 14. also representing Marko Širtz and Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51514	The government accepts the amendment with the correction so that the words "additional item 2." replaced by the words "additional item 4."and the words "for making" in the words "for making" which are at the beginning of the sentence and by deleting the words "point 1.".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51515	Proposers accept amendments in this amended form and become an integral part of the law. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51516	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51517	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51518	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51519	It becomes an integral part of the law. 17th of the same Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51520	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51521	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18th Representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51522	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51523	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51524	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51525	It becomes an integral part of the law. 20. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51526	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51527	It becomes an integral part of the law. 21st Representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51528	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51529	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22. Also the same representatives Marko Širtz and Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51530	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51531	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23. Also representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Marko Širca.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51532	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51533	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51534	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51535	It becomes an integral part of the law. 25th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51536	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51537	It becomes an integral part of the law. 26th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51538	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51539	It becomes an integral part of the law. 27th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51540	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51541	It becomes an integral part of the law. 28th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51542	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51543	It becomes an integral part of the law. 29th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51544	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51545	30th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51546	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51547	31st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51548	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51549	32nd of the same board. They become components of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51550	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51551	It becomes an integral part of the law. The amendments submitted by the club of representatives of the IDS and the club of representatives of HSU have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so we do not have to vote on them. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51552	Mr. President, in this amendment, we have called for Article 163(4). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which states: "Extremely from paragraph 32 of this Article, the amendments may also be submitted to articles of laws which are not covered by the proposed amendments and amendments to the law if necessary in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or with documents relating to international integration and in connection with decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia." Please give me an interpretation of the law that bears the P.Z.E. mark. whether or not to comply with international legislation, i.e. in the function of international integration... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51553	Yeah. Laws bearing the P.Z.E. mark are laws that comply with European Union regulations 161. Rules of Procedure. Article 163(4) The Rules of Procedure which you have called upon are that amendments can also be submitted to articles of laws which are not covered by the proposed amendments if necessary in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but which should be explained, that is not the case, or documents related to international integration. This is not relevant with regard to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, you have called for the abstract norm of the Rules of Procedure or documents relating to international integration without justification, only to that provision of Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. That it is laws that comply with European Union rules, therefore they bear the P.Z.E. code. and in itself this fact should be explained that amendments to the articles submitted, which are not proposed by amendments to the documents relating to international integration, can also be submitted. It's not self-explanatory enough. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 75 for, 3 abstentions, 18 against. The proposed law was adopted with the majority in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. I give the vote the conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act before its publication in the "National Journals". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 88 votes for, 6 abstentions, 3 against. The proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51555	We're moving on to the next one. - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 402. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51556	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me brief on the important changes and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act. The draft law was drawn up in such a way as to bring the existing Water Economy Financing Act in line with the European Union Water Framework Directive. And also with these changes and additions made significant improvements in order to provide the necessary money sources for the maintenance of already built water buildings. Here I would like to add that here we are introducing the principle of irrevocable co-financing of the construction of water buildings, public water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water and water protection benefits. By introducing this principle, we have managed to do what many have already resented, which is that these stakes within the Croatian waters that they had in municipal enterprises, that they will be transferred to local administration units. We're also introducing two water fees, new water charges. First, the existing water fee is lifted and its base is divided into three water charges. And that's a water treatment fee, a melioration drain fee and a melioration irrigation fee. The water treatment fee needs and replaces, so there is an existing spill water fee. The fee for the Melioration Sewerage, i.e. the Melioration Watering Compensation fee, shall be charged only on agricultural land. In fact, the first one will be spent on technical and economic maintenance of county facilities, detailed melioration disposal, or third and fourth-row channels, and the second one will be charged exclusively to those with an interest in irrigation. So, only those who will be in the irrigation system. I would also like to point out here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the National Watering Plan and, within that framework, we have also introduced a meliorative irrigation fee. Here we are also introducing a new water compensation, which is a water contribution as a stable source for the financing of operations in technical and economic maintenance of waterways of water and water protection structures and the preparation of flood defence plans, erosion and floods. Here we want to add that this water contribution will be paid before the construction permit is issued, and by this water contribution we will again say that the existing flood defence system will bring to a functional state, i.e. by ensuring that the existing flood defence system provides protection of the property of people and damages that eventually occur on crops, on agricultural land. Let me also say that the existing water treatment fee will be used exclusively in the water area where it is collected. So much for an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51557	Thank you. We're crossing. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Marko wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51558	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the adoption of this law as well. The Treaty on the accession of the European Union also obliged the Republic of Croatia to comply with the legislation of the European Union, and in particular with the Water Framework Directive, which we have repeatedly mentioned in the debate on the legislative economy. This Law in relation to the Water Act is so-called adhesion law. It is adopted for the purpose of implementing the Water Act. This Law also determines the sources from which individual uses of the Water Act are financed, the way in which individual obligations paid by users and the way in which funds are collected are determined. For the water economy, it is characteristic, but not only of us in the Republic of Croatia but almost everywhere in the world that no market-based assets are realised, no products are produced, but neither by performing business and public water management powers provide services that can achieve an equivalent price from which water users are used in the system. Users shall not be able to give up the impact that will be achieved by defending against floods and other forms of protection and harmful action of water and water protection against pollution as well as the beneficial effects of other water-economic activities carried out in the interest of all legal and natural persons. This activity creates conditions for the normal operation of all persons and for the pursuit of different activities, and therefore the means of financing the water economy can be achieved only in the country's budget or in the contribution and compensation paid by users in the water system. In this way, these needs are financed in other countries, with a different percentage of the contribution of funds from the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government compared to the funds generated from the autonomous, parafiscal sources of the water economy. During the preparation of the Water Law in 1995, we discussed more solutions for funding water lordship. I must really point out that this law was only adopted two or three months after the major military regular operation "Storms", that then the Republic of Croatia was in exceptional financial difficulties and that it was not easy to come up with and propose real and stable sources for financing the water economy. However, over the past 10 years, good and bad foreign water economy financing has proved to be the basis of a valid law, and in 1998, a source of independent funding for the defence of floods, so to speak, was abolished. the water contribution which had the basis for gross wages and financing was continued from the state budget. Of course, depending on the possibilities and the serious consequences of maintaining the flood defense system in the Republic of Croatia. This Law, which is now before us, proposes to edit the source of funding for the Croatian water economy in a way that retains compensation for the protection of water that will be extended to those users of chemical products, means artificial fertilisers and pesticides, or as we professionally say to taxpayers who pollute or pollute our ground and surface water. The second source is the compensation for the use of water that has also been introduced in the Republic of Croatia and the third source that needs to ensure the maintenance of flood defences, i.e. the hydrotechnical system in the Republic of Croatia water as we now classify them as first and second-row waters,... The channels are also first and second lines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, in that part of the water economy, we have one part that is still under mines, which is inaccessible, and over the years the situation is becoming more difficult and more difficult and the Croatian water economy will have to provide additional resources for that part of the activity to enable the maintenance of hydrotechnical facilities on the part that belongs to the obligation of Croatian waters, but also in that part for which they are in charge under the provisions of the Law on Waters of the County, or in these three years still Croatian waters. That is why it is proposed to introduce a water contribution, its foundations are also established and we estimate that it will be a far safer source of resources than it has ever been. However, the state budget remains an obligation to finance the water-economic activity for the construction of capital facilities in flood defence, for the construction of water supply facilities, for the construction of waste water treatment facilities, as well as for the promotion of the construction of a water melioration system and water irrigation systems. And as you know, the government has been through a special irrigation program and has planned to do incentives. Finally, I would point out that at this point, it is the real possibilities of our economy and our citizens, that we cannot go with as much compensation as they are in the European Union because there is no standard of living, nor is it an economic possibility for our citizens to reach the price or water distributed from water supply systems to the citizens and the economy and it is 2 euros per cubic euro in Europe today and 3 euros for waste water treatment. Well, now that you turn it into our kuna, it wouldn't be appropriate. Therefore, all these fees that we have discussed here will be governed by the special regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the fees to be used to maintain the flood defence facilities will be brought, the maintenance of the hydro-technical mellioration system and the disposal will be made on a proposal from the Governing Council of Croatian Waters, with the agreement of the Minister. So everything remains under the control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which must also take care of the maintenance of the hydro-technical system and the entire water economy as well as the possibilities of our citizens. According to what we in Croatia have been able to assess the law is in line with the Water Framework Directive and with EU legislation. I therefore point out once again that we in the Croatian Democratic Community, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51559	Thank you. This would end today's debate over this agenda point. The sequel is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. It's the HSS Club's turn, and then we go to these two points that we skipped the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51560	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Marasovic, a colleague of Marasovic, said the Croatian government has a completely wrong approach when it comes to paying water contribution. That's not true at all. I think that even in, not to think, but I am sure, that in other European Union countries, such practice exists in this or similar form on the one hand, and on the other hand, every investor has to pay the price of the connection to the municipal infrastructure, either when it comes to water supply and disposal, and I mean the case when it comes to other public enterprises, especially when it comes to HEP when paying for the really installed power that needs to be used. So by introducing this funding model is actually I would say a new move from the government, but a practice already known in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51561	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51562	Mr. President, counterpart Marasovic said that the newly introduced water contribution will be paid exclusively by investors of new facilities and that now, from these funds, a hydrotechnical system will be maintained in the Republic of Croatia. That quote is not correct. This is only one of the sources with which, and this is a safe source, by which funds are provided for the execution of purposes, i.e. flood defense systems. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, through the adoption of plans for management of land areas and through other plans, can provide resources in the state budget, as it has provided in one amount this year, and mainly for the construction of capital facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51563	Thank you. And the third correction, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51564	Thank you very much. Well, it's not true the villagers didn't pay. I don't justify those who didn't but we did pay, all those who saw where the money was spent and when it means the channel network of that degree that was on, sorted by the old law in what way and when our water companies kept it that was easy on that ground. So I know that it has between 13 and 50 and a few percent of the area to the area, but it's all a reflection of the state's current and actually ineffectiveness of the system. That's probably why this bill is being amended and complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51565	Thank you. State Secretary Zdravko Krmek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51566	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me explain the water contribution, i.e. what was said earlier in front of the HNS club regarding newly built facilities. Why the contribution to newly built buildings? First, for two reasons. It means that every urbanization burdens the flood protection system. Why? For what reason? Because almost all the rainfalls that reach the urbanized surface are usually in the drain systems and thus, as they say technically, the swelling coefficient is close to 1. And secondly, it's important that all these downfalls come almost at the same time. So that further burdens the flood defense system. All of this means this swelling coefficient, i.e. the reverberation time, destroys the system of protection, defenses against floods. Let me also finally say that at the same time the construction, or maintenance of the flood defense system, has so-called. The effect, i.e. to increase the value of property in the protected area, is also possible to build new objects in this area that we protect from floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51567	Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51568	Well, I've got to make it right. Namely, the new building to be built, let's say, in Murter Markovjev, Split, on a waterfront which is built does not burden a little or a little of the problem of the flood defence on Sava. Not at all. If he is burdening himself then he is burdening himself with something else, how he will get rid of the groundwater in the town of Split itself, but that is another problem, it has nothing to do with the expression of the construction on the waterways of the I degree. So we're talking nonsense. I can't understand that people don't understand what we're talking about. So, something that works on the Adriatic, the most built on the Adriatic, does not even burden the pfening facilities on Savi, Drava, if you want to and on Cetina.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51569	SDP club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51570	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of water, it is already today, and in particular it will be one of the most significant natural economic resources in the future, and Croatia is fortunate to have significant water supplies and that they are relatively unpolluted. We still have a situation...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51571	I'm asking the MPs not to interfere with their colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51572	We still have a situation to wash the streets with drinking water that many such luxury cannot afford. We must therefore take measures to protect and use them, of course and provide sufficient financial resources for these needs. This law bears the label P.Z.E. and it is explained in its explanation that it is in line with the European Union Framework Directive 2000/60. What kind of harmonisation is that if we count from this supplement to the bill how many provisions are harmonised then we see none. 6 have been partially harmonised, and even 143 provisions remain non-compliant. So we at the club are wondering why this bill bears the "E" mark, or wouldn't it be more normal if we had such a minimal and partial alignment of this law that we would then conduct this debate through two readings. What's the point of the alterations and additions? The decentralisation in the water sector is announced by determining responsibility for reflecting the part of the water system closest to the users and by the principle that the owner is responsible for reflecting the facilities. I don't mind, Mr. President. The principle is introduced that water has its economic value, which is added to its availability and protection and for the construction and maintenance of water supply systems. The recovery of these funds is carried out through the price of water and the payment of water charges. So we don't have any bigger newspapers. And now when it comes to fees, we now have seven types of compensation, or sources from the state budget. This is for the newly accepted 2006 budget, with 223 million kuna for the water economy. Further for use, for water protection, for the validity of sand in gravel currently there is a pouring water charge which is mainly paid on the most part on agricultural land. Then through the budgets of local units and from other sources. With this law, we limit the state budget to 80 million kunas in terms of reasons, hence reducing budget resources, introducing water charges and remaining the source of the budget of local units. 7 new water charges are a water contribution from water use and water protection, extraction of sand and gravel, so as we already have, for water treatment, for melioration draining and melioration irrigation. And this last, these last two fees will be in the domain of decision-making and collection and financing at regional unit level, i.e. county level. But new water contributions are also introduced to the construction of buildings paid by the investor, and the basis of the calculation makes up the spatial meter on both the road and other open buildings whose base is a square meter. The amount of water contribution will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we do not know at this time how much it will be and how much it will mean to collect investments, and since we have an insufficient level of investment in Croatia, we would like to have more, sure that such an increase of investments will not contribute, especially because we do not have any indication of what amount this contribution will have. If we remember a little there in the '70s and '80s, investment was paid for a certain contribution to electricity that was even 4%. So here we can also just calculate which percentage of the value of the investment will be introduced as a water contribution. For the protection of water paid by legal and natural persons, an obligation shall be imposed on legal and natural persons who place on the market or for their own purposes the import of mineral fertilisers and plant protection products. That wasn't there now either. The fact is that, in such a way, if these funds are used unprofessionally, there can be pollution of the country and through it indirectly and water, however, we can also count on the collection of these funds, so mineral fertilisers and plant protection products, because the trader or importer will certainly not, and so much will the one who uses it, so the farmer pays more. We also don't know what level to pay for this water protection fee. The water treatment fee, the Melioration draining fee and the melioration irrigation shall be introduced instead of the water draining fee. As far as the compensation for the water treatment is concerned, the agricultural land is currently excluded, and a land obligation on maritime goods for which the concession was issued, and I don't think there should be anything controversial about it, but I'm saying here the base will be a square meter, but it will also determine the government and at this point we also don't know what height it will be. Farmers will pay this time a fee for the melioration drain to, the owner of the agricultural land, and it is now being transferred to the county level. It is intended for technical and economic maintenance of buildings of detailed melioration disposal, meaning channels 2 and 3 and 4 owned by counties. Just a few months ago, we were faced with a major problem relating to the maintenance of Channel 3 and 4 where even the Croatian Army jumped to help, and then you can imagine what these obligations will be exactly in these Slavonian counties that have the largest part of this network that has been abandoned and which we are now leaving in charge, therefore financing and maintenance completely to the county level. The MEPs will be users of a melioration system for irrigation that is introduced at a free assessment of the counties. I think it's okay, they have it in other countries that, of course, it pays maintenance for whoever's using irrigation. These funds have the treatment of extra- budget public administrations. The state budget would serve only for the construction of regulatory water protection structures and, as I said, would amount to around 80 million kuna annually. For other funds, there is no simulation of their height, nor influence since part of the fees will be determined by the county. It is also proposed that funds for the use and protection of water are granted irrevocably to the municipal public sector, while shares, shares and co-ownership rights of Croatian Waters are transferred to local units. In other words, cities and municipalities, as well as their, part of outstanding loans, which will also need to be raised in other ways for their payment. From the state budget, I said we singled out the 2006 budget of 223 million kuna, in the future, according to this law, 80 million kuna. At the same time, we have not received a simulation of how much funds will be collected according to the proposed fees proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law. Given the minimum level of harmonisation of this bill with the European Union Framework Directive 2000/60 and because we do not know how much this will burden users with new contributions, we felt it would be good to implement this proposal in two readings. Since such a proposal has not reached the Legislative Committee, we will not vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51573	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51574	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In its presentation, a distinguished colleague, Zgrebec, stated that this proposal for a Water Economy Financing Act is not in line with the Water Framework Directive and European legislation. This claim does not rest on realistic facts because it is apparent from the attached confirmation of the competent national authority that this law is fully in line with the Framework Directive, and it is also evident that a strategy and programme for the harmonisation of all other sublaws arising under this Act will be drawn up through the CARDS programme in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51575	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51576	My colleague did not correct my incorrect claim in accordance with the provisions of the Statute, Rules of Procedure of Article 209, because I did not say that he was not in conformity, I said that he was minimally in line, stating that only six provisions were partially harmonised and 143 that they were not in conformity at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51577	It is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure whether it is partial or complete or not. It is correcting and polymising with a single claim, not a correction, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Second correction, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51578	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zgrebec, said seven new fees were being imposed in her presentation. It's just not true, I don't know what she could read it from. In fact, a new fee is being introduced, it is a water contribution, and the existing water supply is divided into three water charges: water treatment fee, melioration draining, melioration irrigation. Thus, it is not a compensation for former water-based water-requirers to be paid only by the beneficiaries of the irrigation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51579	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51580	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The existing Water Economy Financing Act, as you know, was adopted in 1995 and may say that the provisions of Article 2(4) of that Act have caused controversy between persons who worked in the water economy mainly in water supply. I know this because from 1997 until I entered the Croatian Parliament I was the director of the Vodovoda Sinj. What's this about? In fact, it is a compensation for the protection and use of the water and resources of the state budget that has been transferred for certain investments and have been given in accordance with the current, existing Water Economy Financing Act. Therefore, Article 3(4) is given as a loan, i.e. as a share in companies. It would take a little longer to discuss the subject, but I can say that this Law was, at a time when it was passed, that it might have had a certain function, but it was never possible to implement. Almost all units of local self-government and all utility companies involved in water supply have raised their vote against this Act. I will only mention that in 1998, the Croatian Water Group sent a presentation, i.e. a legal dispute before the Constitutional Court when it comes to the Water Economy Financing Act, based on this article that I mentioned earlier, starting with the fact that water is generally good, on the one hand. On the other hand, the revenues in terms of the compensation for the use of water and water protection fees, that these are public revenues and that their function should be in a balanced development of water supply throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Not to return to municipal societies, to be given them and to be given them again, so that Croatian waters would enter the property of companies through them, or to be given as a loan, which further burdened end-users, i.e. the price of water. We were in one situation that Croatia's waters have slowly forgotten their base role and threatened to... Investment fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have often warned of this fact at these meetings of the Group of Croatia Waterways. And thank God that this government, I don't think the previous government had the strength until 90th, or this one, until, from 2000 to 2003, it found no model, modus and courage, I would say, to change this provision of the Law that is "nonense" when it comes to the water sector, looking at what is happening in the environment of Croatia. And I think it's the biggest and most significant outcome, while the biggest move is in this part, when it comes to changing and supplementing this law itself. On the other hand, this issue also concerns the privatisation problems of the water-economic sector, and especially when it comes to water-supply companies at Croatia's level and as public as possible, all citizens, end-users are particularly interested. It is, in fact, the following, that the existing Water Economy Financing Act, the Law on Commercial Society, the Water Act and the Law on municipal, in particular the Law on the municipal economy, yesterday I spoke of something, allowing different combinations, and I think that in some way we were tempted to leave natural wealth, water supply and disposal to the private sector, in part to the private sector either domestically, and mainly to the party. This has not happened and I think that in some ways we can all be happy that Croatia is in one position today that, with great water potential as a general good, it has the sole ownership of local self-government water supply companies, public utility companies, companies. Since this area, although when it comes to water supply, is treated in the Law on the municipal economy, it is my opinion that it should be, that this segment should be defined and processed in some way in the roof law, which is the Water Act. I therefore believe that the challenges facing the Croatian government, which are before the competent ministry and before us in the Parliament, I think we are in a position to make no mistake on the basis of the experiences of other countries. We know that England and other countries that have privatised the water supply sector, water supply and disposal in the 1970s are trying to return the "control" package in some way today. Because it is evident, based on world experience, that when it comes to public service, it is generally good that the public sector must then be a regulator, it must be the one who will dominate when it comes to governance, and my humble opinion is that when it comes to water supply and disposal that public operators, it means, companies or plants owned by local self-government units must be those who manage such systems. Since I come from a region where water potentials are quite significant and they're used a lot, I'm going to mention the Cetina plum. We've got four power plants on the Cetina Basin, that's Peru, Orlovac, Gilam, the King and the Doll. I believe that the spirit of politics and these governments, that certain funds should be decentralised, that part of the cake belongs to local self-government units because it is the strength of 900 megawatts installed on the Cetina Basin. And where annual production is 2 million and 500 thousand megawatt hours, which is worth a billion and 250 million kuna. And I think that what units of local self-government in the Cetina region get is somehow one minimum that should be changed. I will mention that the City of Sinai does not have a single kuna when it comes to the means to which God's law should belong. I think that, in some way, in future amendments to these laws, and also in agreements between HEP and Croatian waters, that is because the Government has absolute powers, that this area, that this part should be resolved in a different way. What I would also like to commend in this bill and otherwise one approach to the ministry when it comes to the price of water. I believe that this is a good approach to the economic price of water, but not at the level of a single operator, of a particular municipal company, but an economic price at country level, and it implies a one-sided municipal price. This includes protection fees for the use of water and other charges defined in the Law on the municipal economy, i.e. in these amendments and additions, and the budgets of the units of local self-government is county and state budget. I believe that such a single policy guarantees one price balance where the state, through the competent ministries and units of local self-government and the county, will appear as a Price Moderator. And I think that this will also preserve social stability and social peace. When I talk about social stability and social peace, I'm familiar with cases in some countries where privatization of the water sector, that there was a situation where people were on the streets, etc. I wouldn't talk about it because I have a very short one, but I want to point out again what I was saying, or give certain conclusions. As a representative, I support the amendments and additions that are, on the one hand, in line with European practice, and on the other hand, leading towards decentralisation, which is the policy of this Government. Water for drinking and water at all national good, especially when it comes to water supply I believe that public service should be... The public sector, the economic price of water, I think it is a good one approach, a good philosophy of Croatian Waters and a competent ministry on water prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51581	Thank you very much. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51582	And certainly I would say that funding should be pooled at the state level, and that means through Croatian waters is not a good practice to be on the one hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51583	Thank you very much. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51584	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Economy Act that stems from the Water Act. During the 10-year application of this Act as well as the Water Act, the need for one part of the functions in the water economy to be decentralised is seen in a way that explicitly determines the responsibility for maintaining the part of the water system that is closest to the users. So, that reaffirms the principle, that the owner is responsible for maintaining his facilities. The Water Economy Financing Act was also to be brought into line with the European Union Water Framework Directive. What does this Law accomplish? The principle of non-refundable financing for the construction of public water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water by means of water protection and water use charges shall be introduced. This principle will eliminate the consumer's double charge so far through the fee charged, and secondly through the return of the credit annuity. These changes do not allow consumers to be additionally burdened through the price of the service or similar for the costs of building these buildings in the range of which they are financed by the water use and water protection benefits which I consider a very good solution. The amendment of the Law will also eliminate the unscheduled entry of Croatian Waters, i.e. the state into the shareholder structure of public utility companies. The paper is also a very important newspaper that funds for the protection of water can be allocated in the form of loans to legal or physical persons who release technological waste water, and because of the financing or financing of the construction of water structures for the treatment of technological waste water, as well as to persons who release sanitary waste water, which cannot be connected to the public sewage system. If these buildings are wholly or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia, the funds shall be granted irrevocably. For the purpose of decentralisation, the water supply is abolished, and its basis is divided into three new charges, the water treatment fee of Croatian water income, the Melioration draining fee and the compensation for the melliorative irrigation paid by the County. Each of these fees has a law strictly defined purpose and this is very important, spending in the area in which they are selected. A significant newspaper is the introduction of a new water contribution fee, we have heard various opinions on this fee, I believe it is important to note that the existing way of financing water supply and other water arrangements and protecting against the adverse effects of water from the state budget shows a series of shortcomings. The funds provided in the state budget have often ascilated from 280 million to 198 million last year and are not sufficient for the purposes laid down by law. Insufficient investment has caused the eroding and collapse of already built systems and the reduction of their functional capacity, which in the case of elementary and other accidents can cause major damage to the population and the state as a whole. The introduction of this commitment of the state budget towards the water economy involves financing of the construction, regulatory protection of water buildings and water contribution, obtaining a stable source for financing the regular technical and economic maintenance of water streams, regulatory and water protection structures, and preparing flood defence plans, erosions, floods, floods, etc. which are used, which I think is particularly important, in the whole area of the Republic of Croatia, on the principle of solidarity and priorities. I would particularly point out in this Proposal to amend and supplement the law applying the principle of the polluter pays for... the sources of pollution where, in Article 11, water protection compensation is provided for by legal and natural persons who place traffic or for their own purposes, the import of mineral fertilisers and plant protection products, of course according to the quantity of these goods, because the means of plant protection and artificial fertilisers, by use in agriculture, come into water and pollute them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also consider a good solution to ensure that the water protection fee paid by legal and natural persons who drop waste water pays according to the degree of pollution of wastewater, which is a measurable category, and not as so far as the receptive standard, i.e. by the degree of impact on the deterioration of water quality or usability. I believe that this change will encourage all bonds to invest more significant resources in the treatment of waste water, thereby paying less or not paying it at all, and the ultimate goal is certainly to protect water and sea from pollution and finally preserving the environment. Looking at the current problem of borrowing and collecting water-based water-based fees on how effective its collection was at all, what was the percentage of the charge, the discipline in the transfer of funds to the expense of Croatian waters, the costs of all procedures, I think the elimination of the water-based water-refunds, and the establishment of three new water-refunds in the proposed way will bring about the expected effects. By amending Article 17(2), by defining who other holders of the power to use or manage real estate, it is possible that compensation for the regulation of the water accounts and charges from a person who is really authorised to benefit from the traffic of real estate because so far these have been major shortcomings and a major problem in proving who the owner is, who is actually obliged to pay the compensation. In relation to the provision which is abolished for the treatment of water shall also be paid on land under power lines and products, on land belonging to the maritime goods on which the concession was issued, and agricultural land shall be excluded since it will be the basis of the Melioration Disposal Compensation and Melioration Compensation Compensation Compensation. The fee for the melioration disposal shall be maintained by the same circle of debtors as the abolished riverwater fee for agricultural land in the area of the county in which a melioration system was built in its possession and used for the maintenance of the third and fourth-row channels owned by the counties. This fee can be charged in three ways that each county is authorised to prescribe for itself either one model or more model or combination of all three models, depending on the specificity of each county and the third fee, the fee for the meliorating irrigation of counties in which the milling system for irrigation was built, is authorised to prescribe the obligation to pay this fee according to its free estimate. This fee is paid exclusively by the users of the Melioracic irrigation system. The relevant paper is also an amendment to Article 27 of the Act, where the amendment and addition of the Law abolished the principle of compulsory substitution of insufficient funds for the technical and economic maintenance of waterways of former local waters from the budget of the counties, cities and municipalities, as under the Law on the Waters of the Units of Regional and Local Self-Government are not responsible for maintaining water structures on second-row waters. Units of regional and local self-government shall have the power to co-finance these purposes if they consider it their priority. As regards the accounts and payments of water charges, various doubts have been eliminated which have been raised in the application of the provisions of the Water Act on who makes the decision on the calculation, who prepares the solution, who makes the calculation. The sanctioning is the failure of units of local self-government that avoid the application of the provisions on the preparation of accounts and charges for water control when it is charged with a municipal fee. Procedures for the adoption of a solution on the billing of water charges and the appeal procedure have been developed, as well as the implementation of the implementation and calculation of the tight interest on cases of non-payment, i.e. unlawful payment of water charges. And to conclude with all these good solutions in the law, I support the adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51585	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51586	Dear President, my colleague Brnadic spoke in an acceptable way about the principle of decentralisation. If I understand you correctly, you said that the greatest burden of maintenance of the water system should be borne by those closest to the users, and that would be the essence of that decentralisation. But you see, it's in collapsing with this article 6 that says that the water contribution is paid on construction of buildings, or that would really mean that it goes down on Savi, Dravi, etc. problems related to floods, etc. They'll pay mostly people from the sea where they build the most. It used to be paid in solidarity from wages somewhere until 1998, which I think is fairer, let it be paid in solidarity, so it was out of the budget if I'm not mistaken. But this is the most absurd solution and it is in collapsing with the principle of decentralisation because the greatest burden will fall on those who are the most remote users of this type of service that is necessary. So, flood defenses, embezzlement construction, that sort of thing. So it seems to me that there's a contradiction, that I'm not talking about the story of islands, the coast, Dalmatia and everything we've often talked about, because this particular article 6 will, if it's accepted in this form, lead to the greatest burden falling on those who are the most distant users of this kind, let's say, this kind of service.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51587	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51588	Well, my colleague Jurjevic, in my presentation, said that the introduction of a water contribution to the water economy of the state budget leads to the financing of the construction of regulatory and water-protective water buildings and contributes to a stable source of funding for regular technical economic maintenance, and it is particularly important that throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia it is spent on solidarity and priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51589	The second replica is the respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51590	Mrs. Brnadić explained very well what the law says, but it has been written before in the law you know. As for meliorization, irrigation, it's all written before. It's a question of water use. It's all written in the law before, and we have the picture she was. Let's say for example, that's the easiest way to explain it. You have Neretva which is... You also have your representatives coming from below. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what's gonna happen. Neretva is an interstate river. He must have a flood defense, so he's got some dikes. Not everything, Metkovic is not being defended on the west side of Neretva or the west coast of Neretva, or rather the right bank is not being defended, and now you must raise funds from building buildings in the entire territory of Croatia to build this rash. That's one thing. And the other thing, you leave it to Obuze, Metkovic, I don't know who else, the Panels eventually, and there's another municipality I forgot the name of and leave it to them to say that they will make the programme, plans and raise funds to make Metkovic's meliorative system work. You know how it's gonna work? It will all be sent very quickly, and there will be no mandarin, no vegetables, no anything Neretva gives today. That's the problem. We can't raise our hands like a state of something of state interest. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51591	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51592	So a colleague, Marasovic, is used to maintain water and protect against the harmful effects of water and water contribution and water treatment fees, and to protect against harmful water effects. So, all fees I don't say in a particular area and a melioration drain fee, a meliorative irrigation fee. Therefore, of all the fees according to the VGO plans for this area, it is determined for each year which are priority jobs to be carried out and from these funds these transactions are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51593	Thank you. At 10:20 a.m., it's time for an individual debate on this subject. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51594	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Since the existing law is not fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, it should be stressed that this proposal amends and complements the Water Economy Financing Act successfully fulfils the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, in the period from the entry into force of the law of 1 January 2001, the obligation of the Croatian waters to carry out the tasks on behalf of the counties referred to in Article 38c, d, e, f and g relating to the melioration discharge has been defined. It is not clear whether Croatia's waters take over obligations and carry out operations relating to meliorative irrigation and whose account is defined in Article 38h. I believe that the irrigation fee will have no full justification and until the united property or the commission is carried out because it is almost impossible to realise on small-sized property and payment by farmers at least when it comes to our county. So far, it's proven very, very inefficient. What is good is quite logical that the Croatian Waters, which are placed in certain areas, cannot be treated as credit funds or investment in the ownership of municipal enterprises, as has been indicated in the past several times. We believe that the Water Economy Financing Act should have offered a solution to the debt generated by HABOR loans to units of local self-government, municipal societies, at least those in areas of special state concern. This is why it is necessary to intervene with the amendment because the funds to finance the arrangements for new and rehabilitation of existing water structures in areas of special state care freed in military-redarative actions "Blesk" and "Storm" provided through Croatian waters are fully taken over and paid for by Croatian waters. In fact, this should finally be taken seriously and resolved to finally remove the noose around the neck from these units of local self-government, to finally release the debt by loan and continue to develop as well as all other units of local self-government that have been freed from repaying the loan. The funds provided through the Croatian Waters for the construction and recovery of water supply systems in the liberated areas were allocated with a promise that they will not have to be returned because their payment will take over the state budget. Part of the loan whose funding was the source of funding was the World Bank written off to end-users. And the whole obligation to return was taken over by the state from the state budget, while those whose source was HABOR had not done the same. The unequal behaviour of the State towards the same end-users has led it to an unequal position, with the fact that in the process of taking credit, it is not a rule of difference on the ability to pay or write off the credit. Taking over the remaining loan payments by the Croatian waters towards HABOR will equalise all end users. The adoption of this amendment does not provide for additional resources, as this could be all from the business of Croatian Waters. Now, if we know that local self-government units are also being properly charged by loans even though Croatian waters, we understand that they are being properly serviced and returned today. It is difficult for these units to plan something of quality, so it is high time for this problem to be solved by me in the only possible way, which is that Croatia's waters, therefore, take over to the end of this, and service these loans. With these amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act, I would say more that this is about decentralisation of commitments and I still feel like centralisation of funds. Because how to explain that cities and municipalities do not participate almost anywhere in the percentage of water fees, so let's say from Articles 2 to 6 all revenue from Croatian waters and 6 and 7 income from counties. I think it is necessary to better regulate the issue of water distribution. Thus, provision should be made for units of local self-government to be subject to a certain percentage of revenue based on the use of space to produce electricity. Because Croatia's waters have so far been due revenue from the use of water to invest in infrastructure and return where they are collected. It never happened in practice, at least when it comes to accumulation... And the best way to see it is by this, here, we submerged the sources and at the same time when the water lines are built in those areas, then the loans don't come back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I think that HEP has never met the conditions of construction on the hydropower plant... And I say and today it is due to build that infrastructure that has been prescribed building conditions that have not been carried out to this day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I think it would be fair for finally those whose hydroaccumulation has evicted the population with an unfair fee to significantly reduce the agricultural area because they are mostly submerged fertile fields so that the source of population income in the area is significantly reduced. It is impossible to compensate for all the negative effects of building artificial hydroaccumulation. But finally to admit it and to the rule of the poverty unit of local self-government get their share of at least half because both HEP and everyone at that hydropower plant accumulation... They make enormous profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say that only traffic and electricity sales are almost a billion and a half kuna a year, and let's just say that one of my Vrlika doesn't get 500, 600 thousand kuna a year from that huge share they have. So I'm going to intervene with these amendments, it's not a good solution that abandoned practice is financing infrastructure from the state budget. It is unclear whether the funds for the protection of water leave the funding for the construction of water supply facilities. Article 27(2) provides that if cities co-finance the construction of funds, they shall identify Croatian waters as agreed. My question is why shouldn't Croatia's waters in joint investments provide funds to cities, so why not... cities and Croatian waters in the same position? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't doubt at the end, I don't doubt that this proposal for a law is in line with the acquis of the European Union. I, as an agent, will support him. But I'm afraid there's going to be more trouble in his conduct than we all expect together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51595	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. The club of representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51597	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State with his associates, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, on behalf of the HSS Club, to present our opinion on the amendment proposal and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act. In principle, the proposaler's remark, it might be better if it were a new law, not to bother ourselves with comparisons with old ones, new ones, but here's the decision that the motioner made was to make changes, even though it was practically a new law. And we don't have a grudge either, but it would be easier for us to keep track of him if he were a whole and a new one now. For the second time, maybe it's a lesson to all of us that it's easier to make new than to fix this old one because it didn't have to be fixed, because this is a whole new concept. Introductoryly, this law continues to be discussed yesterday on waters where we must say that as soon as the decision in the government was made to integrate this... discusses as public goods that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia teaching and this law tries to resolve, meaning funding of the water economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We, however, welcome that part of the effort, and I think it's on its way to all these negative consequences that have been created in the meantime trying to solve. We don't have the illusion that it's possible at the same time but there's got to be order and... To solve the problems that have accumulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From all water buildings to the final and communal economy, the part that was solved in the way it was solved. So, first of all, commending the promoter to finally remove that anthem that was the investment of Croatian waters, the construction of public supply or disposal, the sewerage or purification of waste water, as a dilemma whether it is owned by this or that and I think it is a proposal and we support it on units of local government, in fact local administrations, means municipalities and cities a good solution, and we absolutely imply this proposal in the way that it is proposed in this Law. We think it means a water fee or a new water contribution, so the new species now said in the law, water compensation, means water treatment fee, compensation for... draining and compensation for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] irrigation is necessary in order for our proposal to also take care of the heights of these bases, the rates of responsibility of users who regain these funds and the possibilities of the same entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it wouldn't be good if the plans, the programs were more than the possibilities of all those who could. Clearly, there is always the possibility of a state budget, of intervention in one way or another because it is impossible to build only on these grounds but a well-proposed proposer has assessed in what way and who to burden and back actually return it to him because it is of interest to him. That part should absolutely be, well, well estimated that it does not happen that the entities that are interested in using are inability to pay for it at all and to deal with it at all. And don't let us stay at zero again and do nothing. Thus, by introducing a water contribution as a stable source for business financing, further not to list technical economic maintenance of the water supply, the regulatory protection of water structures brings under this Act by the Government Regulation, it must take care of the economic situation of all users and those who pay for it and do this proportionately and burdensome work. We had, probably, and you all remember, various heights, rates, methods of reckoning, that it wouldn't happen to us that a good idea actually burdens us all who have to be burdened, and should be burdened because it's of interest to them but the possibility of paying must be that factor that must take account of it. Furthermore, the assessment... is that they should expand the base to everything, in fact contaminants and users so that what, the polluter principle pays, we must well, well assess. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We cannot read from this Law what level of contaminant it is when it must pay, when it is actually burdened and whether it is passed on to that last user of the manufacturer, its product, we are talking about the agricultural household which, or whatever business subject it consumes, means the consumption of artificial mineral fuels and protective means, is it now the regulation of European standards, it would be good at least to point out and say for everyone that we know how much it is, because if it is at all linear consumers over the price that producers can easily put into their product at the same time, then it is a new imposition that must be discussed in another way and make sure that... in agriculture, they don't get it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if it's allowed, I'm now talking to you, 500m 700kg of artificial fuel and some few kilos of protective equipment within the boundaries where it doesn't burden a farmer because it objectively doesn't contaminate in... where it crosses the level of pollution of the authorised use of minerals then we have nothing against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if that's what I say linearly, then you should make sure it doesn't happen again, new burdens that hard farmers can bear. So it's our request, because now we don't have the opportunity to do well, well estimate how much of an interest it is to introduce a new imposition, how much economic justification he has and which brings us any benefit or even more harm to the ultimate agricultural producer. Namely, any procedure of space must result in some kind of devastation I won't say harsh words but it changes the state of things. Thus, investment in agricultural production in one way or another by entering the soil a determination of the substance brings benefits to production but also leaves so-called. ... Is he leaving in the ground some kind of harmful substance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We cannot read from this Law what level it is and how it is, although we have nothing against excessive use and on such users to apply this means, scattered polluting over the amount of those that would potentially endanger groundwater or only ground to apply such a provision. As for the part where the possibility of introducing a county determines the heights needed for this area, the compensation for water treatment and the compensation for mellerative draining and mellerational irrigation and the original revenues and used in that part. I think it has already been, however, not used in the right sense of the word, but it is now directly stated for which needs may be managed to create a climate that needs to be separated for such charges because it is nevertheless the County Assembly's decision on height and easier to decide at that local or regional level. Otherwise, at the level of the country where the funds are actually accumulated and they are deployed by plan and programme to all those water buildings and all those, those procedures that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. We think that eventually the time has now matured to be managed in this way and managed because it was difficult to manage segmentally. One of them was guilty because they didn't have any money, the other couldn't handle it. I think this is actually a model we think is a model that would have to result in an improvement in the general situation because it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And yet ours, our anxiety goes to this principle that water must have an economic price we don't think we can jump out of freaks now in the boot and simply apply the principle of "ad hoc" and tell all those who now own large or are owners of water structures for these or for those purposes so that suddenly this economic price doesn't give God a multiple increase because you know and all of us expensive that we have a small, small scope of use first in the municipal drinking water economy where we have to make an extra effort to actually if not 100% or 90 percent of the population has the possibility of joining and using sanitaryly correct water, and here if we apply this principle especially that part of cleaning waste water, I don't think that this time our population could push. That's why we need to keep an economic account, but at the same time take care of the strength of those who are ultimately paying for it, which is our citizens. It is a purely principled suggestion, and I suppose that this water is taken into account and that it is not, that laws are not passed so that it would potentially be favourable, we know for ourselves that some now have large sources, they are dealing with one-day amounts of water that could be immediately converted into a business where the population would then be dependent and there should be taken care not to allow growth unlimitedly. And with all these good intentions, which is another of our suggestions to the Proposer, and we think it's hard to implement a decision, or that article where he says, "In another country at any level, he can't ask from it." We think that this part can hardly go parallel or at least at the same time because it's two completely different jobs. Paying all of these, whether it's a water contribution, is it, is it this or that fee anyway now in which part of it is being tightened by people or users of state incentives at the same time I think it's just complicated in the administration a tremendous amount of work and that there might be a mess where it could be difficult to justify why I didn't get because maybe I didn't pay there in time. This one didn't pay me, so I won't pay because I can't pay, and that would be a chain wheel. Personally, at the HSS Club, we think that if they are in a proper, appropriate height, those bonds must pay and our proposal should be resolved in another way and means by forced payment, regular payment, the system that the state administration already has, and let it not bind to this part of the incentive. If it's possible to avoid it, it's our suggestion that, that it would be good because we simply don't think that the ratio of users on one side and these on the other side is the same and I think that the ministries or the state administration would have a lot of work just to figure out who's right, the exact same time to whom to take or charge because they don't even go at the same time and don't go on time. They're late so it's easy for users to be late in that part not to pay. Because believe me, if a farmer expects one amount the state owes him, he won't lend the state in advance to pay her. And at the same time it would happen, which is why I, like, have to ask for interest and still take away from me, and the country that owes me I can't charge anything from it. Because it's my right, my right, my right, and my right to be guaranteed by the Constitution, the law and everything. So we suggest that this principle simply does not apply, that we try to find another way. For the time being, we think positively about this law because it solves a lot of the hint for the better, but clearly we also have these issues better expressed in doubt, and if the Proposer makes it quite clear to us, I assume that we will be voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51598	Thank you. The HNS club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51599	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the government's representatives I'm going to repeat since last night was supposed to conduct a united debate because one law without another means nothing, but I must warn you of one thing. We now have a debate on the amendment and addition of the Water Economy Financing Act and everything that arises from it is embedded in the Budget of State and the budget of Croatian Waters. So what you now have here is already embedded in the budget that you have brought, Croatian waters as at that time virtual means. The other revenue shall be provided under paragraph 1 of this Article. What am I talking about? Things are actually changing compared to the existing law very little. Water use fee, water protection fee are the same parameters because we don't know whether the government will or won't change those parameters. So it stays at 0.8 kuna for use, 0.9 for protection. Budgetary resources are provided in principle for the construction of municipal, municipal infrastructure, so from Calmetin Ministry, former Calmetino, I no longer know whether it is now in Calmetino or in this Ministry of Agriculture and Water, Agriculture and Water Economy, but what was required to be budgetary and what should be estimated by around 400 million kuna, therefore, the maintenance of water buildings on so far state waters, now on the waters of the first category, is not envisaged but other revenues as revenues from the water contribution for which, which should be calculated on newly built investments. Now you see. We have a government and a prime minister who claims that we will make everything possible for investors to reduce and facilitate the entry and into new investment building, and now we are passing an amendment to the law that we say will raise the costs of investment construction. Because so far, you have about a municipal contribution by cubicity, by the cube of space in certain cities and municipalities, amounted to about 150 kuna. Now you'll have an extra, extra then so another obligation for the investor 50, 60, 70 kuna depends on how much the government will say, it can say 100 kuna. So, the government has so far committed its legal obligation to settle water-building facilities on state-owned waters to settle this out of the budget, it is now transferring to investors. Now imagine that logic! Imagine the logic. The future investor will pay to keep the dikes down the Sava and Drava, and they're protecting who today? Cities, villages, municipalities, hospitals, roads, railways that have already been built, and they have no obligation to co-finance to defend against the flood of these facilities, but some new ones that will come to build. In my opinion, it's all the wrong logic and the wrong approach entirely. I do not know about such an approach in the European Union, and we say that this law is in line with the laws of the European Union. It has a code E. So this is something that neither I nor the HNS Club can accept especially because we do not know the parameters of what it will mean, and let's say that in the cost of Croatian waters for this year these funds are foreseen by 403 million. So someone calculated them. The funds for the maintenance of facilities on state waterways or first-class waterways are foreseen by 403 million although we didn't have any elements to bring it this way. It's another thing. A water-based water-based fee that has been calculated on the basis of the current Water Economy Financing Act. True, it was complicated, but it was also effective. It was also efficient, and it would add up to 450 and over 450 million kuna. True, the solution was issued to tens of thousands, but the question of whether or not it will now be issued. I don't see it shrinking. You'll have a lot of solutions again. Once again, you will have the non-payments of those who have never paid for it, and you know who haven't paid for it, you know very well. They only paid those who had an obligation to pay through urban and municipal budgets. So, where was the communal fee there they were paying the water fee, the pouring water fee. Peasants, unfortunately, Kolar little and nothing. I don't know how he's gonna pay now. Now they have an obligation to pay two fees, for irrigation, and what the other is called for melioration draining and melioration irrigation. Here is another proof of how strong and persistent this government will put into its one, one of its priority tasks to solve irrigation in Croatia as much as it will invest. Now we're going to see through this fee that we're going to collect from the poor girl, and then we're going to see what else the government is going to give. I don't think that's gonna happen. It wasn't for these two years, so it's not going to happen for these next two, and nothing's going to happen, because you don't have a single metre that got rid of it in these two years, and you know it's one of the prime minister's top priorities and this government's irrigation resolution. It'll all depend on God again. It will again depend on whether it's dry or rain, and unfortunately I don't see stable sources of income for either story. Because what situation can we get into? To return to that water contribution again. Imagine an absurd situation that is not far from us to be in such a crisis that there is no construction in Croatia, that there is no new investment building. Then there's not a single kuna to maintain buildings and water buildings on state waters. Not a single kuna, because it's a source. On the other hand, if you remember the Law on the municipal economy all that is controversial, and the logic should have about the same, everything that is collected and revenues for the municipal contribution must go into the new, in building new municipal infrastructure, in no way in maintaining the existing, and here it goes vice versa. It gathers from the title of the investment, but it goes into the maintenance of objects that are already existing, which are built by God 15 years ago and over, I won't mention what time. Here they are, it's a contribution to my and HNS's subject. I think that all of this together had to be dealt with in another way as for that previous law and that things had to be analysed differently and seen as how they solved the developed countries in the transition that entered the European Union a year ago and compared all of this to see what would have been done and that "the wolf would be sieve and goats in number", because there would be no goat here, nor would the wolf be full. That's for me as far as this law is concerned. By the way, I'm gonna go back to something. So water supply and draining. I was already talking about that somewhere at the level of 300 million cc's per year Croatian citizens get bills for paying water supply and disposal. However, most of them as water supplies because the draining of rare local self-government and rare municipalities and cities separated them from water supplies. And now I have to tell you something. Yes, with all the fees, with all the costs that they charge here, and there are prices from 3 and a half kuna to 14 kuna, I think Istria is the most expensive. When it comes together, do you know how much it's going to be for you? Less than 10% of the bills paid for phone impulses. All costs of water supply and disposal burdening Croatian citizens are less than 10% of phone impulses. Well, if "the devil is black" is supposed to be black, so let's just accept the rules that the European Union imposes on us, so let's accept what's been done in the Czech Republic, which was implemented in Hungary. Then he won't pay 10% more. Then they will pay my dear Kolar as in Copenhagen and Berlin. Then there won't be three-and-a-half kunas, seven kunas, or ten kunas of water. Gentlemen will be my five and a half euros. It's your future, and now we're playing and we're gonna see how we handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51600	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51601	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Rebić has raised important topics from this, which he treats this Law, but I would only remind him of something that he obviously either did not want to see or did not see. For example, the latter for meloration draining and therefore for meloration irrigation is intended to maintain objects of meloration discharge and meloration maintenance, meloration bloating, but you have no place where the funds are intended to build meloration draining and meloration irrigation, and you do not have items in the law. Who's gonna give it to you? By the way, just a few percent in Croatia, a few percent of the area, or better said somewhere I think 2 or 3% possible, and 4 is meloric or possible irrigation of areas, agricultural areas in Croatia. How are we going to solve this problem, it's out of these laws, and there's no explanation. For your information you see 16 million kuna in the budget this year you have for the entire country for irrigation, here's a serious approach to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51602	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51603	Thank you. Well, I must say that, however, Mr. Marasovic is wrong because this law provides for the maintenance and construction of fees from water arrangements, as well as from water contributions but also from the state budget. So everything you've replicated has been completely wrong, so I've been saying, so what my doubts are in terms of, they were going to be whether Croatia's waters will take over from doing the jobs that relate to meliorative irrigation. So these were our questions and these questions and I didn't speak in my debate, but when you say, at least say what the law says, don't say what the law doesn't say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51604	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51605	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of the proposed amending and supplementing law on the financing of the water economy and the consequences of the law. They can and can be called by introducing the principles of clean billing. Although the existing law, therefore, gave good solutions and the changes proposed by water to improve these and not so significant shortcomings. Perhaps it is more appropriate to say, years have done their part, some solutions in the current law have been conditioned by moment, some things have matured for change, and this proposal of these amendments does exactly. Or perhaps, more precisely, the obligations of all interested and all taxpayers in the area of funding for the water economy are determined. It is especially important to note and point out that this Law firmly introduces two principles. One principle of solidarity is certainly extremely important for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. This relates to the funds collected from the water contribution, the water use and water protection compensation, the water areas and there are 4 of them, the water treatment fees and, to the counties, the water treatment fees. This also confirms the second principle promoted in this proposal to amend the law, the principle of decentralisation. I consider it to be to welcome the abolition of the spill water compensation, or the sharing of it on the basis of the above, on three new fees. Water treatment fee, Melioration draining fee and Melioration irrigation fee. It is of paramount importance that the meliorative irrigation and melioration drains be in the jurisdiction of the county. Many broken phones will be eliminated in this way. The pouring water compensation allowed free thinking and interpretation to say so, and then some people took a flat water fee for freedom not to pay. Certainly, it is also important and regulated grants and that shares of Croatian waters in municipal enterprises be transferred to local self-government units. Croatia's waters, on the basis of the funds raised, placed credit funds on a particular area and received a subsequent ownership stake. The application of the principle which owes the State at any level of the establishment cannot require it to introduce a provision on the suspension of incentives to persons at the level of their debt under these charges. Finally, this provision introduces order, I repeat clean bills, but it must be taken care of the techniques and consistency of the transfer because the payer is to the county, so the income of the county is to be paid, and the obligation to encourage the state through the Resort Ministry even though some incentives have not been excluded by the county. Depends on the county. It is possible that all the compensation provided for in this Law will cause a reaction in the sense that these are new charges. It was said in the opening exhibition and in discussions that the Republic of Croatia is rich in water. Drinking, mineral, surface, deep and so on. Sometimes it's just too much rain. That Croatia is counting on this wealth that is becoming more and more significant every day. For this reason, the water economy is looking for systematic, correct and just funding, which is what the proposal, or the application of this Law, and allows, and the benefits of this can only be multiple. That's why I'm joining all the MPs who will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51606	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51607	Mr. Representative said the principle of solidarity was respected. Since I have to do it again, I don't know which way has nothing to do with it. Therefore, in order to maintain water buildings on state waterways or on first row waterways, you charge from those who build. From those who build. And those who defend themselves pay nothing. What's with the solidarity? What kind of solidarity is there? What she's like, I don't get it. Where's the solidarity? I don't understand such a concept and such a principle of solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51608	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51609	... It can be assumed that some have already built it. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] And that someone else didn't have it built. One day it will be done as you said on the right bank in Metkovic, and next or next year in Lower Miholjc Drava. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51610	Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51611	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think it was time to systematically address the issue of funding, the issue of funding the water economy in a stable and long-term way because the current way of financing did not allow the maintenance of existing facilities, for example, to defend against floods on systems that we have both inside and on the coast. The flood defence should have its stable source of income for the regular technical and economic maintenance of water streams and water protection structures that already exist or will be built. Then from the defense against erosion and streams. In the coastal area, there is unfortunately no space that is not threatened by this other part of the problem that means from erosion and flood. How ours, as our coastal areas are mostly poor with land due to erosion and floods from the past and it is a real pain to keep land in places where it once was or where it is now so the situation can be made worse means that solidarity is needed in this area in order to maintain or reduce the adverse consequences of floods and erosions in the coastal area. As for Neretva, Cetina there are needed water defence systems that already exist somewhere but are threatened and these exist because of the lack of funds so that in areas where hydro and agro melirating works have been done again, there is a discolouration of these conquered and meliorised surfaces and that means if late or insufficient investment is made in the maintenance of existing facilities that can occur again that the already meliorized land can be meliorized. That's what we have in the Neretva case. In addition, when it comes to Neretva Neretva, Neretva is not only threatened because existing flood defence facilities have been questioned and a network of canals, but also threatened by the results of the meliorations due to the decreased flow of sweet water from the interior, particularly the left coast of Neretva. Why? Because the streams that fed Neretva and enabled sufficient amounts of fresh water are actually now reduced, so the break of the sea into Neretva all the way to Capljina and more endangers both hydromellating and agrimeling works that were carried out in Neretva in the past. Because in one way, the waters of Bune, Bunice, Bregava, Trebišnice, have been rerouted because of the need to exploit these waters to produce electricity. So these quantities of water go to the sea one other way in another direction, and the flow of this sweet water to Neretva has decreased significantly. Of course, the rerouting of freshwater or water from the interior cannot be without the economic consent of Croatia when discussing inter-republic problems around the water system, so in my opinion and in the Croatian Parliament, it is necessary to warn that the re-saling that comes due to the lack of sufficient water, sweet water enters the sea and threatens existing facilities and existing areas which are as you know of great importance for the Republic of Croatia because those agricultural cultures that can be produced more or less simply produced there, especially citruses in the Mediterranean climate zone. That is why it is also necessary to restore all these flood defence facilities, and this is also to address the problem of lagging which is due to the lack of sufficient amounts of sweet water, due to its reorientation to the production of electricity, and not to return through the Trebišnice system to the Neretva plum, but to go down to the sea actually untapped for what I was talking about. So solidarity is needed. Of course, this should take care of priorities, so what is threatened, what can cause greater damage should be seen in advance and intervened so as not to result in consequences that are difficult to repair afterwards. So, these three new fees, so we're canceling the flat fee so far. Three new water treatment fees, meliorisation draining and melioration irrigation shall be introduced. We are in terms of irrigation at the very bottom of Europe. Even Albania is ahead of us. We listen and are announced and already implementing initial measures for an entire complex and irrigation system in Croatia. I think it should be a great undertaking of the whole country that the areas we have can irrigate especially in the coastal area where we have large waters in winter and small waters in summer. So it's the opposite of what we need. We have large accumulations in the back of the coast that go untapped in one way or another, and because of their altitude, and the accumulations are located at 300 to 400 m above sea level and can be used in cooperation with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in large quantities of freshwater in the coast, islands and the like, in order to reaffirm, i.e. to improve agricultural production in those areas where climate and for those cultures that are actually possible only in that area. I think it's one perspective for the future, but right now we have to think of these things, of course not only passively, to fight the floods or the great floods, but also to do all that to use that water that we have for the benefit of our economy, to improve agricultural production, and that means the total economy. So, another element that this law provides is that the principle that has been adopted long ago in European standards and directives, which we have at least formally adopted, is that water pollutants pay for what they cause. But we didn't cover one large part, one large area, which is that large pollution happens and using particularly non-moderate or non-selective use of plant protection products in agriculture and, of course, artificial fertilisers. Therefore, those who import, who are dealing with this, should also pay a part for this problem that is causing it. Therefore, I find it difficult to talk now about all aspects of this bill, but I think the principle of who causes pollution should be paid. However, there is, of course, that part which is the natural and normal fertilisation of agricultural land which, in any case, the use of artificial fertilisers certainly leads to pollution in general, which means also causing degradation and reducing its production capacity and production capacity. Here, time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51612	Thank you very much. Replica, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51613	I would, Mr. Vice President Bebic actually spoke well, but we need to know again what we're talking about. We need to know financially what it... In order to maintain state water, 400 million kunas need to be analysed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last five years between 280 and this year were invested 105, last year it was 105 million, and 100 million more were secured by the re-use of funds in Croatian waters. So we need to know what it is. For years, not to say all these 15 years has invested nothing in this area. Now we say we don't have a stable source, and so far it's a government budget obligation because it's '98. For years, the water contribution has been abolished. Now we're gonna charge these investors, so we're gonna secure that money. You don't even have an analysis of how much you need to collect it. It's not clear what you're charging for. You want to charge for it on private buildings. You probably will. Then it is contrary to what we say that we will stretch investment construction and investment in Croatia was in tourism, whether in industry, or in business. Now you're increasing the rain. That's what I'm saying and I won't say anything else. It's like we don't understand what we're saying. So we all say the same thing. As far as erosion, as far as the tides are concerned, there was before a flat fee that is now divided into three fees. We don't know, it's not valorized as much as it's going to be, but it's been said that the water treatment fee stays. So, there are still streams and erosions as before. Nothing's changed here. And I have to say it's not even a little money. At the state level, more than four hundred million kunas are gathered. Nearly 450 million kunas return to the direct execution of over 360 million kunas. So we need to know what we're talking about. That's what I'm trying to say, and here, the principle formulations don't serve anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51614	The reply to the replica is a respected representative, Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51615	We are talking about the need to finally establish a system that will create the basis for stable funding for the water economy. This does not mean that there will be no further need for intervention from the state budget for capital facilities that cannot be derived from the regular revenues generated in this way proposed. So, then, the need to intervene from the state budget will remain to solve bigger things like that. But these bigger things will be less and less if we establish one stable source of funding, and I agree that this is one painful job that will take a long time but it should finally start one more time and we have one stable source of income and that it is too much known where they come from and what these revenues are for and for which they are intended. Therefore, we can talk about whether that is enough, whether these funds are initially perhaps not enough. But if one such system is established then we will gradually resolve at least these main problems but we need to move into offensive in the sense that we are not only dealing with passive flood defenses but also finally going into irrigation into what is, which can give us tomorrow large incomes in agriculture which is one of our basic foundations for development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51616	Second replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51617	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Vice-President Bebic spoke in this section about the pollution of mineral fertilisers of protective products where, if we agree, there is a particular problem in agriculture, but I think my colleague will agree that there are certain differences. We have conventional agriculture where this problem is really more pronounced, but we also have ecological agriculture where it's generally gone and we have a farm to talk about, which is so-called. an integral farming where the use of artificial fertilisers and protective agents is to the extent permitted and which may be decomposed in a specific way, to be absorbed and not to act negatively on this water-related part. I want to say here that we must surely face the problem which will mean that part of the objective burden on those who import or put on the market mineral fertilisers and safeguards, whether they will transfer that total burden to our agricultural producers. If that happens in that part, then I assure you that we will certainly have problems because our agricultural producers are having a great deal of trouble ensuring at affordable prices re-promatter. If this is going to be another increased imposition that will only be transferred from those carrying out the transport of mineral fertilisers and protective products to that end consumer, which is the agricultural producer, I think that given the time we are, given that we need to prepare our agriculture to adapt to the European Union, it will make this situation very difficult and I think that we need to take full account of it. I can't take it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51618	Replica response, respected deputy president Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51619	So I agree that here is a question of selectivity of the use of artificial fertilisers, one very important question because we are all interested in organic production, etc. where the use of artificial fertilisers will be reduced to a reasonable measure. And, but I'm talking about that, that our pedological situation on our land is such that a lot of land that up to a few years or a dozen years ago was pedologically excellent to say so, and that there was a huge degradation of that land because of the enormous use of artificial fertilisers where it is, and I don't speak pesticides when not educated people who use it, so it says that it should take 0.20%, and it puts for every safety hernia. So it's five times that. That's what we're talking about. So we're going to force those who are dealing with artificial fertilisers and pesticides to educate those who use them so that then the damage is less and all of us are ultimately more satisfied. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51620	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51621	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law has two essential parts, one part is good, the other part is bad. The important thing is that you're here, we haven't been able to make the law all right. A good law is in the part where one problem is really solved, which is that those funds that are collected from citizens and from businesses in Croatia water then Croatia's waters in the form of co-financing of loans or potential shares were given to municipal enterprises, i.e. local self-government units, are now really saying ok. This will become the property of units of local self-government, and then local self-government units are very likely to capitalise on it or something else on their utility companies or distributors. It is good at determining that part of the fees that have now been collected, such as water use and water use and water protection fees, will be irrevocably returned to the delivery service provider for the construction of the station, for the construction of the treatment plant. So far, there has really been a situation where all of this has been centralized, it has gone to Croatian waters, and Croatian waters, I will say strange criteria, have determined where these funds will be allocated. So today you have a situation that, for example, water supply in the electoral unit from which I come, which is Koprivnica-križevačka, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and part of Zagreb County have the lowest degree of availability of the public water supply system even though the huge amount of money has been collected from these three counties for water use. On the other hand, what counterpart Marasovic said, in some Dalmatian counties you have access to a public water supply system above 90%. So I think this is a really good solution. However, it might be good here to explain whether it will be a system of automation, so whether it will really return to the supplier of municipal services in a given area the total amount of water protection fees collected and the use of water for as long as it is built, so the cleaning device, i.e. the water supply device, or in the period during which there is a need to repay the investment, so to repay the loan. It is not good that it is not resolved that counterpart Rebic here also said the issue of loans that Croatian waters and local self-government units have raised from HABOR. So it remains the obligation of the local self-government unit to repay the loan. Because some were in privileged status, so they could get funding from Croatian waters, and in such a way they will now come into ownership and the part that Croatian waters invested, but on the other hand those who were not in this possibility and in this privilege but were raising loans from HABOR will still have to repay those loans. I think that should be the principle of equality, so all that is invested in cooperation with Croatian waters of Croatia should be taken over by paying off these loans, and all these funds should be transferred to local self-government units without compensation. What's not good about this law is that we introduce new accusations. So no matter what the water supply is abolished, it is obvious that what is introduced instead will be more than is calculated today as a water plum compensation. Thus, the water treatment fee will likely remain in the amount that is today a water spill-off fee. But the fee for melitarian irrigation will become a new imposition. And there's decentralisation. However, we will transfer the people's anger for these two commitments to the counties that are essentially going to earn it. But I don't think that's good. Similarly, I don't think the issue of water contribution has been well resolved because the water contribution will become one big tax, it will become a bigger tax than the municipal contribution in certain units of local self-government. And what we see here, for example, is that water contribution, which may be a good solution, but it would be a good analogy, so it would be paid for example to build roads, so roads and tracks. Today, it is impossible to charge a municipal contribution to road construction. If this is a solution that will allow local self-government units to charge a municipal contribution to road construction, I'm up for it. However, I am not sure that it is good to introduce a water contribution that will be paid for the construction. But I am for the principle of solidarity unlike fellow Marasovic, which would now be that where the water supply problems are solved no longer have to be paid, and where they are not solved, the issue of water supply from the electoral unit where I come from would no longer be the principle of solidarity. Therefore, the principle of solidarity should be so long as we are not all in a similar or similar situation, to ensure that citizens have the same availability primarily for the water supply system on the one hand, to ensure a certain degree of treatment of waste water. I would ask the Proposer, and I will make such an amendment, that it amends Articles 32, 33 and 34 in any case. So I think that article 32 is completely contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government because one obligation is imposed here by local self-government which cannot be imposed under the Law on Local Self-Government. The State can entrust certain tasks. However, this is not the performance of certain tasks, this is the charge of a certain fee, which is a compensation for water management, and as follows in Articles 32, 33 and 34, it turns out that the payment obligation towards Croatian waters will not be a citizen, i.e. legal person, but a unit of local self-government. So the local self-government unit will have to charge for it, the local self-government unit will have to supply it to Croatian waters every week. If not, Croatian waters will seek first and foremost a tight interest, etc. and what does Croatia care about security or the amount of collection of that. And secondly, Croatian waters say here, i.e. the law here says that some smaller units of local self-government. The Law on Local Self-Government does not know the term of a smaller unit of local self-government. The law knows the meaning of local self-government units, knows large cities and knows units of regional, regional self-government. I don't know what criteria Croatia's water will say, therefore, that some small units of local self-government do not have to pay for water treatment, and those who are not small will have to do so. And secondly, it is also said here that the local self-government unit is an obligation to charge the water treatment fee, especially where it does not want to charge for it. Croatia's waters therefore acquire practically 100% of the security of the billing and collection fees for water control and here the debtor becomes a unit of local self-government. I think the Law on Local Self-Government does not allow such a way of transferring financial obligations to local self-government units because such a job, and we have a situation so far, can be concluded between businesses, and this is about a company called Croatian Water and some municipalities and cities, only based on a contract. So the unit of local self-government can say sorry we don't have enough capacity to do this regardless of what the 5% fee is provided here, let Croatia's waters do it differently through some financial service of the bank or something else'. And it is particularly unacceptable, therefore, that the local self-government unit should be told to compensate Croatian waters for the reduced revenue of the water treatment fee if something is not charged. So I ask you to make sure to correct it in the contextals, to say that Croatian waters can enter into a contract to entrust these deals to local self-government units, but certainly cannot be defined by law, because this way HEP could come and say that units of local self-government will charge electricity for them, so for all that they do not charge from citizens they have to pay HEP or the railway can assume that the tickets sell these units of local self-government. So this is certainly not in line with the Law on Local Self-Government. And if these two things were corrected, so this good part and this part that's not really good enough about the water contribution and, above all, this water treatment fee, I think that's when the law might be supported, but that still has the option for the proposer to end this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51622	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51623	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear representative Mršić cited seven incorrect allegations. I'll try to fix just as much time as I can. First of all, the division of existing water costs, the three new charges will not introduce any new burdens as it claims they will, since these compensations will, in particular, be paid by only those who use a meliorative system or irrigation system. It will not be paid by more people on an island on the karst or other people in Zagreb for what they have been paying so far. Secondly, Croatian waters are no company. Croatian waters are a state-owned institution, doing their jobs not to gain profits but to manage the state...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51624	So you've arrived two. Now we have a series of replicas. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51625	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Mršić is the mayor of a mediocre city I mean by size, by population and he would have to know some things. Let me tell you. For those 300 million cubics that are invoiced in Croatia, Zagreb Voda, Split Voda and Rijeka Voda are half. Everything else in Croatia is half. Now look. If he now gave the principle to Croatian waters that money will be returned, Koprivnica would gain far less than it is now, and about other places around Koprivnica that I do not speak. So that's the basic question. So you can't, on the principle of solidarity, if you don't take Zagreb, Split and Rijeka and some others, then you have nothing to give to other areas. That's the point of solidarity, but you know better about bicycles. You don't have to understand solidarity. So that's what I wanted to say, clearly Mr. Širac already told him, he would have to know that Croatian waters are not a company, as well as the mayor would have to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51626	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51627	A colleague of Marasovic, precisely because I know how many Croatian waters have been taken in Koprivnica and Koprivnica-Kristevnik County during the past period, I advocate the principle of solidarity. You know when you were director of Croatian Waters, Koprivnica, citizens and the economy paid annual payments to the account of Croatian Waters over 10 million kunas with a variety of basics. County, so the rest of the county is another 10 million kuna, and here we get an average of between a million and two million kunas a year return. It was not even respected by the rule of Croatian Waters that 50% of the collected revenues from the area of one unit of local self-government were returned to where it was collected and that there was some means of solidarity left. Therefore solidarity is required yes, but solidarity cannot be to take everything and then give it all to the other. So it must remain a possibility, because that's how we, at the availability of the water supply system, are truly undeveloped. So we have a 33% chance of joining, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County has 34%... so it turns out that we are really the two most underdeveloped counties. And now look at how much money Croatia's water has collected in this area over the past 10 years. So nothing came back. Zagreb should not be taken, Split and Rijeka to build in Koprivnica. Just a little less take the hives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51628	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51629	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mršić pointed out the good and bad parts of this law. I'd like first to replicate about the good side where I can't agree with some of his findings, and it's about the recapitalisation of companies for now. In fact, you said that the funds that Croatia is investing in municipal societies, not municipal societies, but the water supply that they should return to the units of local self-government, the founders of companies, as the legislator predicted. But I don't think it's a good solution, at all, for utility companies to own municipal infrastructure when it comes to water supply. I think it will be the fate of this House to make another decision, which is that through the reform of the municipal and water supply system, it will solve it in a way that the municipal infrastructure belongs exclusively to units, the founders of local self-government units, and this is related to the privatisation of the water sector. When it comes to the bad sides of the Law, each is imposed in some way is not dear to anyone, it is not popular, but the fact that society, the total society cannot be developed without certain contributions, impositions, etc. And I think that when it comes to the water contribution that he is in the function of building, maintaining second-class waters, on the one hand, and solidarity, I don't think it's questionable about these fees. Even when it comes to water supplies in the law, in amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act, and this component is provided for in terms of price balancing as much as is at the country-wide level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51630	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51631	I'm afraid your colleagues did not listen to me very carefully. I said that, therefore, everything to the units of local self-government, and that units of local self-government decide what to do with it. Because you have one model to capitalize on, for example, utility companies. It's one of the models. But the unit of local self-government, that's why it's called self-government so it can decide on its own what to do, and not that it's going to get all "Big Brothers" prescribed by it, so you know, then only through the city councils do you have to do it. They still give you the sprawl to send here from Zagreb then you just sign down as council president on it. So it is really necessary to enable self - administration to decide some things on its own. Like the issue of built municipal infrastructure where a small part is built only by the Croatian Waters, and the resources of Croatian Waters did not fall from the sky, but the resources of Croatian Waters were collected precisely from those citizens who are now allowed to be connected to public water supply. And as for the water contribution, I am not sure that we all understand this as it really says in the Law because I am not sure that in the budget of Croatian roads it is intended to pay or that it will have to pay a water contribution to the construction of each road, including the highway to be built next year. And including, for example, the Peljesac-land bridge. So, on that bridge, you'll have to pay a water contribution per square metre of that bridge and highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51632	And finally, honourable representative Josip Djakic, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51633	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in this debate which Mr. Mršić presented on the good and bad sides of the Law, I would only like to look back on those bad sides that concern local self-government and its difficulties in implementing these measures mentioned in the Law, which is the collection of funds for these contributions that are foreseen. I would like to stress that local self-government has concrete records of all those receiving certain subsidies from local self-government. There are records of those who are renting agricultural land. With all these subsidy measures for the transport of students to school, all of this is used by people, and when it is necessary to charge the state budget or from the water compensation or from any other basis then deny it. I therefore believe that the unit of local self-government has enough both officers and opportunities and valid records to prevent not from being charged but rather to achieve the greatest payment of this contribution and to receive what is necessary. And Croatia's waters with these resources have made channel networks and everything that is abandoned today still.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51634	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51635	Comrade Djakic, you are perceiving a unit of local self-government as perhaps a city or county. But you have a municipality of Targetana that has 137 inhabitants who, I'm afraid, are going to have a hard time doing this. You have a number of units of local self-government that do not charge public fees, they have no charge for municipal compensation at all, and according to Article 34 of this Act, these units of local self-government, regardless of which they do not charge public compensation to their citizens, will have to pay water contribution to Croatian waters, or water treatment fees. So that's what this is about. To make this law binding on water, payments, so cashing it becomes a unit of local self-government. I am against it, I am not opposed to units of local self-government performing a payment service for Croatian waters, but not to be bonds. They can be a service, and Croatian waters need to conclude a contract with a local self-government unit. The local self-government unit will do that for them. However, according to this, it turns out that Croatia's water will want every month, or every week one-fifth of a year's compensation for water treatment, which is calculated by the basis of a solution, because the care of Croatian water, if the unit of local self-government has difficulties with the payment of that fee, this is what this is about. Therefore, it is necessary to leave options, i.e. no possibility but to be a relationship between Croatia's water and the payment service can be performed by the local self-government unit under contract, and secondly I do not see criteria for smaller units of local self-government. It's something that doesn't exist in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51636	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51637	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. Hereafter, the proposal to amend and supplement the Water Act is abolished into state and local waters because all waters are both national and national and public and should really come up with a quality way of financing, water maintenance and public water supply. I appreciate that these amendments and additions to this Water Economy Financing Act are really what we do. The question of justice will no longer be raised when it is claimed that one and the same investment is paid twice, first through the collection of fees for the protection and use of water by Croatian Waters, and then through the return of funds to Croatian Waters that are planned for municipal investors or as a loan, and they bring annuities over the price of municipal services to consumers or modelling recapitalisations which cannot be used to negotiate transactions with the local self-government unit and the legal concept of the division of competence in the water sector between the state and the local self-government unit is destroyed. In fact, building the maintenance of municipal water infrastructure, which is within the competence of the local self-government unit and co-financing of sustainable development in municipal activity according to the principles of solidarity and priorities, which is also the responsibility of the state through Croatian Waters, Ministries and Funds intertwined through the ownership structure and the state assumes the role of the unit of local self-government which is really not good and we do not need it. Since the co-financing of a municipal society should be carried out every year by the recapitalisation process, which is an expensive and long-term complex work that is very difficult and irrationally implemented once a year. Also, the legal provision that units of local self-government must have a minimum 51% share of shares in buildings, i.e. in companies, restricts the possibility of using these resources of Croatian Waters. This amendment would resolve the issue of shares and shares of Croatian Waters in such a way as to transfer them to units of local self-government and holders of shares and shares in certain municipal societies, thus protecting the ownership of units of local self-government under the Law on the Communist Economy. In the future, the supply of drinking water, draining and treatment of waste water from Croatian Waters for co-financing of construction is granted irrevocably, and industrial pollutants for so-called ". The pre-treasure of industrial retrieval funds shall be granted as a loan. I have already noted that both shares and co-ownership shares and Croatian waters switch to local self-government units, but also credit obligations to Croatian waters are written off in an unfulfilled section. The control of the spending of Croatian waters on municipal investors would continue to carry out Croatian waters through the so-called so-called Investment supervision without the need for employees of Croatian Waters to be appointed to the supervisory boards of municipal companies. The main objective of the amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act is to find stable funding for the technical and economic maintenance of water-building on first and second-row waters, to maintain the facilities of detailed melliorative draining and maintenance facilities, and also to ensure decentralisation started by the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Waters. The stable financing of the water economy will certainly be carried out by abolishing a water-based water-based fee that is not, in principle, the pay-user did not take advantage of this model and was in some ways not successful. Instead of getting close to their function, they paid a flat water fee on both urban and agricultural surfaces, but on agricultural surfaces it is very, very difficult because of the lack of discipline, the invitation to boycott, poor pay habits, very difficult to buy, so that still paid by people in urban areas and now we have a new form of funding, one part means compensation for Melioration discharge, the only source for financing it will be on agricultural land while other parts, urban parts will pay for the water treatment that will certainly be less than a water charge. And here I support the provisions that strengthen the base of this fee that debtors who use are incentivised by the debt amount of the incentives because the compensation is a general principle of debt-religious relations, and on the other hand, the government gives concessions to the counties and the instrument from its self-established debt relationship, which is the payment of incentives and, in any event, it should support this model and then, through the Melioritional discharge fee, we will certainly get to the quality resources, maintain or fix what we already have, and for the future, provide means orderly disposal and in that way, will certainly be better spent. The funds are county and county funds for sure and the county assembly will care every year how these funds are used best and also means agricultural land and higher altitude differences, as well as in the valley serve as a function. Also, the fee for melioration irrigation means that equipment will only be maintained by those who use melioration irrigation and I think that's all right. Normally, both problems are linked, that the compensation for the melioration drain has the conditions to create conditions for melioration irrigation to be performed, and thus also to buy compensation from the maintenance user. I also welcome the introduction of a water contribution where there is an institutionalization of a stable source for the financing of regular technical maintenance operations, but also the preparation of flood defence plans, erosions and floods, and I certainly support that the principle of solidarity and parity should be present because unfortunately we have not yet experienced a great flood as these European countries have experienced, we see in Međimurje what was in August, and we really cannot maintain this issue on favourable climate conditions because this year is just proof that there can be floods in August and it is normal that protection is the best way to defend against floods because we really cannot stop water, it is breaking down, melts unsustainable relations and bad, relations and facilities, however, relations and gasoline and oil and things that pollut and when once floods huge quantities of agricultural land are not in function and are much more indirect. In any case, I believe that the law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, as well as the Water Economy Financing Act, is good and I really support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51638	Thank you. Dear representative, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51639	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me look further at the adoption of this Water Economy Financing Act. At first I can say that I will not support this Law, my colleagues have already given a certain argument, I will join them, and it is clear from the general debate that everyone warns that the Law has good and bad sides, so I think it would be better if the Law had gone to another reading and could have been corrected. So this law has, in my opinion, that basic goal, all of them stress that its main objective is to ensure that it is securely financed by the entire water economy system, and that is not the case for me, because I don't think it will actually happen because there is no simulation, there is no projection of how much funds will be collected from that newly introduced water contribution that we know is being collected per metre by cubic newly built building. How's that been so far? So far, this system has been financed by a large part of the budget, but now this will not be the case, and the proposer himself says so under the point of the means necessary for the implementation of the law. He speaks of the fact that for the implementation of this law to provide funds that are extra- budget public contributions. And to look back, therefore, on the financial plan of the Croatian Waters, here I have for 2005 the total financial plan is about a billion and 800 million kuna, the original revenue from different fees is a billion kuna and the revenue from the budget is 600 million kuna. These are therefore loans, such as long-term commitments from the budget and also projects from the budget, revenue from the budget provided for to restore water structures for flood protection, water supply projects, flood protection, etc., all that is foreseen to be done with a new water contribution. So, what follows under this law is that approximately so much funding, so 600 million kunas must be collected on the name of a water contribution per meter cubic and we can only think of that as a great pressure on those investors. Now, I have this same book that the government issued, these are administrative obstacles to foreign investment. Among other things, such impositions and contributions are also mentioned, which, as well as domestic ones, will in any way deter investors or perhaps cause them to consider whether to invest in Croatia. Here, in 88 years we have an example for the city of Zagreb that municipal services, communal... He got 530 kuna per metre square and now he's per metre cubic and 150 kuna which is a big problem for our investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to invest in the water supply system, concrete data has also been reported, that out of nearly 4 thousand kilometers of national waterways 37% is fully arranged, 42% is partially and 21% is not arranged. For the defence against floods that threaten more than 15% of the state land territory and more recently, it is likely that it has been built along the state waterways of 2 thousand 415km of defensive embankments and another thousand 642km of local waterways that should therefore be maintained. That the supply of the population is provided with the possibility of 76% supplying water from public systems, that only 40% of the population can be connected to sewage systems for water protection. Therefore, it is clear that this system needs to be greatly improved and that large funds should be invested to balance its development in the whole of Croatia. Thus, we can set an example for our Međimurje. We had big problems, therefore, now that the Mura River has grown precisely because we didn't have embankments on the Mura River, which is a bureaucratic procedure, so the bureaucratized procedure has led to the fact that these dikes were not built in time and these dikes are now being rapidly working, we could speedily say late or late because this year alone in flood damage in Međimurje County there were over 7 million kunas. Here, right now you're doing a rash at the Crossages whose value will be somewhere around 3 million kunas, then the nask in the place of Pouren that had to be made long ago and wasn't made. Also, there is a need to boost the rash from Gorican to Kotoriba, which should have been done long ago. So, these projects wait for us not only in Međimurje but also in all of Croatia with the aim of protecting health, the lives of our citizens, their material property. It is stated in the law that this law abolishes the water supply of water. That's not true. She's not breaking up. It only reshapes with financial commitments that remain the same. In my view, therefore, the basic objective of this law is to ensure a safer charge on this basis, because we know that the river water compensation was collected by some counties at very low levels of fifteen or twenty percent and in some other counties such as Međimurska and 70-80%, so we could therefore edit our drain systems. After a new water fee, it's divided. It's not abolished, it's divided into a water treatment fee. The payers of that fee shall be the property owners of eight items. So even the number of taxpayers paid and paid and expanded. Then, for the melioration disposal, the bonds are the owners of agricultural land. And it's also divided into a meliorative irrigation fee. But before I go on this subject that I think should be particularly emphasized, so it's irrigation. And just to warn you of one fee that has been underused for all these years, and I hope that's a little bit more to go on. So it's a compensation for extracting sand and gravel. In 2005, only 18 million kunas benefited from that compensation, I think it is too small and that the whole system should be put under control and from that fee, so concessions should be obtained. As far as mellioracic irrigation is concerned, I think this entire system is actually going to be in crisis with the irrigation project of Croatia because no funds are listed directly from the state budget are reserved for the development of this system. In the Croatian Waters budget, I think 18 million kuna were secured in 2005 if I am not mistaken for this development of the irrigation project. In the Croatian budget, these funds are not increasing but being reduced, so I don't know what this billion-dollar project is actually going to be able to finance, not a dozen million kunas, which is absolutely necessary. So we heard that only 1.5% to 2% in Croatia is even watered today. Since it is therefore a fee for meliorating the income of the county and these counties can only charge it from the users of the irrigation system and there is no such irrigation system in any of our county to call it the right name system. Well, then the question is, who's the county gonna charge from, they don't have anyone to charge from. How will they raise money for the development of this irrigation project? So they're going to have to do it again from their budget, and it means that such a huge irrigation budget will fall on the back of our counties, and we know what kind of budgets we have, if I follow it well. Okay, here I am at the end. Well, for all these reasons, I can't accept such a proposal to finance the water economy. So, firstly, not to secure safe income for the development of the water economy. Secondly, if the state itself were to resolve the costs that would be transferred to investors, citizens and counties because the state did not cut the state budget for those funds that would be transferred to investors, the budget remained the same. And yet, on the other hand, Croatian waters must collect 500-600 million kuna to develop this entire system, in accordance with Article 8 of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51640	Thank you. Dear representative of Jaksa Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51641	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! First, Mr. Pavlic spoke of a billion and 800 million kuna. That's not true. We've voted the budget in revenue... Four million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although when you look at the income side, then you have, you can look at it like this. The remaining unremarked income is item 382 million. I mean, a little bit of an item, like that, but it's those virtual assets that we've been talking about today. This water contribution, which could not be clearly mentioned, was now to be displayed as other unremarked incomes and are actually virtual means because we still don't know how much it can be, what it can be because the government has yet to determine the parameters and by regulation to bring the parameters for, that it can be applied at all. This Law only establishes him, and he does not have to apply him. So the question is how will those virtual funds be spent, say, for example, on the 1st, 2nd or 3rd month? Because they're gone and we've brought that budget. That's what I'm saying. And as for irrigation, you know, irrigation is a prerequisite for disposal, so you have to have a resolved meloration drain to talk about how to conduct irrigation, so you have to solve first when God sends you rain to take it away so that you can possibly artificially bring water when God doesn't give you rain. Now, in Croatian waters they have, they have a budget as much as it costs, bringing into the zeroth phase of the existing Meloric, existing meloration drain. I have to admit, I have to admit that I don't know the exact number right now, but there's a big item there, and these fees that are mentioned here, they're mentioned for maintaining the system, not even for bringing to the zeroth stage, or for building some new systems. That's the problem... the budget of that money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51642	Thank you very much. Answer, reply to the line, honourable representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51643	Well, here was a small misunderstanding in that I was speaking the Croatian Waters budget for 2005 and not about this budget, which is essentially the same, so the original revenues of Croatian waters for 2005 were billions of kuna and revenues from the budget of 600 and 2 million kuna. So 28 million kunas were prepared for irrigation. But what I would now point out is that for plants, protection from the harmful effects of water on state waters, flood protection was isolated from those billions and 800 total budgets of only 13 million kunas. So I think that these two projects are very necessary that much more resources have to be allocated to implement them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51644	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the debate on the Water Economy Financing Act, I will immediately try to refer to the Water Framework Directive, which makes it clear that those who are approaching and who are joining the European Union are seeking the principle of reimbursement of costs from water services, including those related to environmental protection, water protection in line with economic analysis, with the objectives of water policy being an appropriate incentive for users to use water resources effectively. Of course, such a formula implies that certain principles at this time are not actively implemented in Croatia. So he directly translated into a language more understandablely says that at this point water as one of the most important resources that the entire world's population needs, we use cheaper than it is in some way precise through what the framework directive says should lead such a price policy that represents an appropriate incentive. Of course, I will also visit here on Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which makes it very clear that Croatia is a unique, indivisible and social state. Therefore, this bill must take care of those opportunities that our citizens have. It must take account of the level of tolerance in terms of the possibilities of our citizens, clearly not only in the context of water use but in the context of everything else that can be expected to happen in accordance with this precise interpretation of the Framework Directive. If we add to this the fact that the funding of the water economy rests in its fundamental position through these changes and the addition of the law in the position that part of the funds that has come from the budget system is necessary somewhere else. It is necessary to create new forms where this fee will take place. If this directly refers to an economy that is already competitive at this point does not have an enviable position, Croatia's investments are the lowest of all countries not those located in the European Union but those countries that make up the rest of Southeast Europe. Investments are something that is actually the most sensitive part of launching economic mechanisms, growth, development and opening new places. Investments are precisely the topics that we have tried to open to a good extent, by facilitating the process of opening up companies, in ways of seeking consent and all together. But the basic prerequisite for every investment policy is to create economic preconditions and to reduce those applying, imposing, giving and all that capital invested makes unattractive. If you have unattractive capital, no one is interested in investing in the best product. Therefore, the country's main problem with investment policy is extremely high operating costs. I am afraid that this way of redistributing the financial system to the cost of investors, in the case of new investments, no matter where they happened clearly, I will not say like Marina that Dalmatia will be the most burdened for the reason that there will or may be certain investments, I have some other information. I will return to Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of the indivisibility and unity of the Republic of Croatia and of the clearly and social state when it is, when it comes to spatial arrangement. Namely, by the Law on Spatial Planning and Nature Protection, we questioned this article of the Constitution, Article 1. Because we don't have a unique, we don't have the same, we don't have the same legal position. The islands were brought to the other row. They, unlike the rest of Croatia, have a very special regulation. They have such elements as obstacles to investment development that it simply won't break through. That's what all those who are mayors, the mayors in ours, along the Adriatic coast and on the islands are talking about. They were practically brought to mayors, commissioners, second-class citizens. Because they are subject to some other rules that do not apply, for example. for Zagreb and for the rest of Croatia. At the same time, they are put there, if they want their spatial plan to be active, so that they can take effect on the need to resolve wastewater and utility and all together before the Law on Spatial Planning or the Spatial Plan of the municipality and the city has to enter into force. How can those two get in one row? That's what the law says. What's going on that way? We stopped the economy. We've stopped a normal life, and I'm afraid this kind of transfer of financial weight to investors can lead to further deterioration and a fall in investment policy and investment at all. Let's see what we can do on the other side that's more positive, which is about decentralisation of the management system, which is about decentralisation of ownership, which is about decentralisation of new investments, something that is quite natural, which is appropriate. Which fits into these framework directives of the European Union and which in nature is not bad. And I think that we also need to make it very clear that such a burden of decentralisation, under quotes, in terms of first of all the transfer of liabilities but not the rights or financial resources either through fiscal policy or through some other way do not go evenly. We must equate decentralisation of obligations and decentralisation of rights so that we can implement the fundamental objective of the Water Economy Act, which is that we have satisfied citizens, that we have satisfied investors and that we have brought our water resources into such a relationship in which it will continue to be the fundamental resource of this country. Clearly, it is very important that yesterday was mentioned several times when water debates were being discussed that our waters must be permanently excluded, except when negotiations with the European Union on possible privatisation and public-private partnership and everything else. Because it is one of such resources that is specific to the Republic of Croatia in terms of strength and quality that it must simply remain specifically indicated, it must have one permanent exception, the character of a permanent exemption precisely in order to be more efficient, but also in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia again, referring to Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does so. The Law itself, which of course has a good intensity, has relations arranged according to a goal that it wants to achieve. He's like material to me acceptable and good. It simply needs to be installed, or the government needs to be shown how it thinks about controlling certain criteria that we will give an answer to. What will be the three new fees? How many will they be? Are they going to be bigger than the flat fee now? Will they be the same? Will it be much bigger? To know simply and all participants must plan ahead. If the law comes into force by 1 January 2006 at the latest, then we need to know something projectional because in order to plan our future, we need to have some frameworks. The economic price of water is also one per me at this point, given the situation in which we have one category that must at least 60% rest on the social category. Which must be protected in most parts. You have a variety of examples in the economic price of water so somewhere on the islands it doubles during the season or those who actively deal with certain activities that are related to intensive use and water pay more. I think they're all models that are good because they're particular. But they should be particular because the economic price of water can't hit everyone equally. Those who have more reason to use it. Or those who misbehave should pay more. But we also need to use those other products to make more efficient use of water. I'm sure not for street washing. For that we have water that has a technical character. Which should come in some other way. All those experiences that we have from neighboring countries in the form of efficiency of water use and behaviour that is far more scarce with them than with us must just be incorporated into our directive The way we manage the waters in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51646	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51647	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In his presentation, the distinguished representative Markov said: transferring the costs of maintaining this system to investment is a bad solution. This claim does not rest on facts and is not correct. I must point out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 52 of the Water, ensures that the waters enjoy the special protection of the Republic of Croatia. That water is a public good and that all water users have to bear certain costs or pay parafiscal fees to maintain this system in all forms.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51648	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51649	Mr. Markov also spoke about the water contribution and charged through investment construction and spoke also about solidarity. I'm not here again, I don't understand what solidarity is like unless we think the foreigners are coming, so we're gonna put them on one more charge to, by collecting more of those dates they have to give. I guess that's how we think we're gonna be solid. Otherwise I'll tell you something. This is about 400 additional million kuna in the Croatian Waters Budget. When you reject what was being secured, let's say that's 300 through the budget. Let's say now the budget won't do anything even though it's $400 million per 100 billion budget, figure out what that is. And if we had divided that into, say, employees, one million and four hundred thousand employees, then we would have about 300 kuna per year per employee on average, on an average net salary of 4 and 300 as much as I saw last night that you can figure out for yourself what the percentage is, and the gross is half less. So with some 0.4% gross wages we could avoid this problem and then talk about full solidarity and respect for the principle of solidarity. And yet we went to someone, I'm not going to say what kind of solution I think the question of how it's going to work. The big question is, can it even work? Because you must know, even this is a constitutional issue, the municipal contribution must be spent on construction. And by the logic of things, the water contribution doesn't have to be spent on maintenance, it has to be built. And you predicted here to be spent on maintenance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51650	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51651	Thank you very much. Solidarity. I was talking about the solidarity that we all owe together to apply to the foundation of the Constitution. Solidarity towards citizens, solidarity with those who today do not have liquid, drinking water in their home compared to those who have. I think it's the task of all those who are normally thinking about making it possible for those who don't have that water. When we talk about solidarity between the state and Croatian waters then this solidarity is less important for the state and for society. It's something else that doesn't need to be undermined under solidarity. Solidarity versus citizens yes, absolutely. Solidarity in relation to budget and non-profit users is something else entirely. There's a big difference. The part where a colleague, Jaksha, said that 400 million would be needed from other funds. This is absolutely in the context of the relations between the state and Croatian waters and other users and it should not be mixed with each other. Our citizens are interested in the very simple answer whether they will continue to pay such a price of water or it will be twice as much. If it's gonna be twice as much, then we don't have the right to support this. If it stays at this level, and we will strengthen the criteria to be more qualified, to defend that the next generations have good and quality water, then we are on a good track.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51652	Thank you. Replica's esteemed Bystander.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would disagree with the consideration of the distinguished representative Markov on the matter of politics when it comes to the price of water and solidarity. I think that the Ministry's approach is a quality and good approach in terms of one general solidarity when it comes to economic price I will repeat what I was saying in my brief statement that the economic price should be at the level of the entire system, the water supply system of the Republic of Croatia, rather than the individual systems of small water supply systems. They certainly wouldn't be able to meet such challenges. On the other hand, we must be aware that, in one way or another, the end-user or through taxes or through other obligations, through the price means the services themselves must pay the ultimate price but I believe that the elements of solidarity the legislator has well understood in the law in question. As far as privatisation is concerned, I'd say you mentioned it was, but I think you need to change one set of laws about it, first of all, the Law on the Communist Economy. Then the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act, when it comes to privatising the water sector, and I think that, for the next year, we should have, I would be glad to have new proposals for one, the other and the third law, that is to say, in terms of protecting Croatian national interest when it comes to water, and in terms of contributions we want or do not want to admit, we can tend to it. The water contribution has absolutely all the elements of solidarity in the water sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51654	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51655	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know how much the same price is on the trail throughout the Republic of Croatia regardless of the conditions, regardless of the circumstances and regardless of the spent or the way that water is spent. I think there must be more consumer structures. A citizen cannot be in the structure of those consumers who have active, means direct and indirect benefits from water. They can't be in the same category. A citizen must be in a privileged group, he must enjoy the status of social protection regardless of who he was referring to. Second when it comes to privatization of the water economy and the assembly. It's not a question of the law. It's a matter of principle. It is a question of the principle of how this country will be asked and whether it will show in the privatisation of the water economy our position in negotiations with everyone for our specificity which they have developed as their contribution to the entry, not the blackmail system into the European Union, our contribution to the entry is exactly the protection of water resources in a way that we are looking for a permanent exception of gentlemen because for us in Croatia, the water economy and water wealth represent, given that we are a relatively small country with very high quality resources, and something that we need in the future to plan for the development of our economy, our country and the well-being of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51656	The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So when we look at this part where we talk about the compliance of this law with the rules of the European Union and the directives, we see that only a few items are partially in line with the directives. We, under the cover of European law and legislation, place a whole series of changes. Thus, it seems to me that it would be much better and better quality to hold a discussion in two readings. When it comes to solidarity, the fact is I agree that when we talk about a water contribution, maybe this moment is the most built in the Adriatic, but it's an indisputable fact that they're mostly building people from the mainland, from these northern parts. Therefore, no one can say this moment we are going to spend money only there because solidarity should certainly be. However, it seems to me that there is not enough solidarity in Article 7 and I would suggest that we consider it. I have also made appropriate amendments to add, however, the article that at least 30% of the water contribution paid is spent in the local self-government unit where the money is collected if there is a need to carry out the work. I think that this way will also be expressed solidarity on one side, but as in Article 13, I suggest that at least 50% of the fees paid for water control and Melioration discharge are spent in the unit area of local self-government where the same and charged, of course, if there is a need to perform such works. We know that especially in this where we have nursing households, where we have fewer surfaces to be relatively difficult all kinds of fees have been collected so far. If we want the collection of fees to be better quality and we need to show these people that something is being done in their area. That's the solidarity. For solidarity I am because we have cases I remember in Varazdin County where people living on the hill, where there is no danger of flooding and everything else opposed to collecting any compensation. And here's the thing for the ministry, but the government is going a little bit more with education towards the citizens of this country to know what money is being spent on, which is their purpose. Because you and I will admit that not enough people know what this is about. To them, it's a cost and a burden. Therefore, it seems to me that you should work on it in the ministry. If the government has already used to have websites and a specific campaign for election purposes, why not now, through jumbo posters and certain other options that modern media is giving today, to explain to the widest circle of people the legal changes and for what the money that is being collected is used for. I am quite sure that our citizens will then show more solidarity and more civic commitment to pay for it. As far as Article 19 is concerned, I propose that land owners, or land users over 65 years of age, as well as persons unable to work and attract for disability or disease if there are no other persons in the household who are able to work and attract, or if the land is not leased to another person. You know that there is a legal possibility that a good part of the municipalities uses, that unless the land is processed to charge taxes for unprocessed land. In this way, we will also show a certain dose of social sensitivity, and I would particularly suggest that the possibility of paragraph 3 in Article 19 be considered that, if there is a reduction of 50 per cent and more on agricultural land on the grounds of natural disasters or other extraordinary events which the owner or the landowner or the landowner could not influence or prevent, in that case, and that the contribution may be reduced by 50 per cent and more, and then Croatian waters, based on field insight and demand by the owner or land user, have the opportunity to write off the corresponding part of the water charges for that part. And this is the possibility that the state will prove to be vulnerable to landowners or land users especially for farmers who we all say are particularly in a difficult situation and will be particularly difficult to adapt to entering the European Union. Special story is local self-government units. We know that by the Constitution and by the laws of the local self-government unit, they have jobs that are from their self-government work. We and this law and some other laws impose obligations that are not properly imposed on them and paid for in their thinking. So, I suggest next. Article 33 states that the management of the eyewitnesses and the provision of data that units of local self-government must provide, however, we are aware that units of local self-government have no insight into all surfaces or volumes of objects located in their territory. They have no legal capacity to enter someone’s apartment or house and to determine how real the surface or volume of a certain economic or building facility is. It seems quite different to me how such data should be solved because local self-government units are asked for something they themselves have, or do not. If they have they will give the data, however in what way. Here, gentlemen, I'm asking you how if the Constitution guarantees the inviolability of the apartment or house in which they will measure the square of a house. And it's thought that the data doesn't match. It is also in Article 38a. It is said that this same article is problematic for local self-government units because it poses a danger for Croatian waters to reach the budget of local self-government units, because the facts of local self-government units can and must pay within a certain time period for Croatian waters what is really collected. But what about that money, with those financial assets they can't raise. In this case, the real danger of Croatia's leadership sitting on their jury account is that it was transferred to their jurisdiction to charge something in addition to the communal fee. The real possibility is that something is not charged and Croatian waters in this case have the opportunity to sit on a jury account. The Chiefs and the Municipal Councils and the Chiefs shall be responsible for the state of the budget. If that happens, maybe you gentlemen nod that it won't be like that, but I do, time will be the best judge. What happens if that happens? Also, in paragraph 32, it seems to me, and this is a proposal from local self-government units to go towards Croatian waters, either once a month or twice a month, in order to reduce bank costs for local self-government units if possible. In this respect, Article 38b. which speaks of those units of local self-government that are unable to set up a fee, we consider that units of local self-government less than five thousand inhabitants who are unable to pay the water treatment fee to be exempt from the charge obligation and that in their decision to report it to Croatian waters and let them find ways to collect it. As for the existing, we know that Croatia also leads in local companies dealing with water maintenance, the water economies would be a proposal, I ask you to think about it. There you have ten percent share, you have people from the Croatian waters who receive compensation for their work inside. Why wouldn't it go to that, and I suggest that the founders be forced to sell their share on the stock market, that it exists, that the start should be a nominal price and that the funds collected are then used to maintain the third and fourth-row channels. The idea may also be interesting because I don't see any reason if someone wants to maintain and have an impact on someone's business, we might achieve lower prices of maintenance and all the other public tenders on the market and this way, if someone has a share in a company, then they're forced to give him a little bit of a price deal to talk about what and how, whether it's best or not. But I think it's an idea to say hello. And one more thing. It seems to me, however, given this part of the compliance of this law with European law. It seems to me, and it is my impression that the Government and the Proposer at the small door want to push through European law and we see that we have three or four only acts that are partially aligned and most of it is inconsistencies or inapplicable. And under the cover of European law, we get such a big law and most of it is inapplicable. I'd like to hear too much of an explanation why it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51658	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51659	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! In his presentation several times, he stated that this law does not comply with European Union legislation. This claim of truth does not rest on facts and is not correct because, secondly, I point out that the competent state authority has issued a valid confirmation that compliance of this law with the Framework Directive has been carried out. However, compliance with the technical regulation to be implemented and the obligations laid down by this law will be implemented by adopting sub-legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51660	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51661	A colleague, Širac, injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because I said it was my impression. And the impression and the claim is something completely different. Besides, I may be misreading, but it says here inconsistencies, partly consistent. I'm sure it wasn't a co-ordinated fellow Shirac. I think that fine language diversity of the Croatian language is very well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51662	It's my impression that he hasn't been hurt by his rules of procedure after all. Replica's esteemed representative, Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with you, dear colleague of the Korenika, that the owner of the facility does not have to or will not allow it to be measured. It will simply measure external gauges, charge a little more, five or ten percent. Be assured he'll fly with a complaint and then he'll have to allow it to be measured properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51664	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51665	I agree with you, however, that is not the original jurisdiction of the local self-government units. There's something called self-rule work, you were mayor. Then let the state administration do that, any time they issue a building permit, any other state body or Croatian waters. You make a commitment to the units of local self-government and I assure you, and so far what they have been doing for Croatian waters has not been enough for them often, they have been costing them more than they have raised money or what Croatian waters have been giving them for these things. So we're constantly talking about decentralisation, local self-government, constantly imposing new obligations on them, and we don't want to pay for it. I'm sorry, then we've got the state administration and let this job be done by the state administration. I don't think there's a different and more quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51666	Replica, a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51667	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Stengl and I traveled to work on a tram this morning, and we talked about this, mainly about this part of what Mr. Korenika now says that maybe we should consider selling the shares in the companies. Now, that's what we need to stop right now because if the sale of shares in companies starts, that's what brings us to the Institute of Public-private Partnership, and we're not gonna keep the end of it anymore, we're gonna go all the way. All utility companies will go that way, natural wealth will go away. And yet, we're against it because if we sell it then we'll have nothing left. So that's where we all need to agree together that this part of natural wealth when it comes to water and this part that does not take into account the privatisation of these companies because if it comes to it, we'll have nothing left to do, then we'll have a liter of water more expensive than a liter of gasoline and then they'll sell us water that has completely different intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51668	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51669	So I can agree with you in part when it comes to water as a drink, water for drinks. However, a respected colleague, we still have today, I was just talking about it. You have certain companies dealing with maintenance and everything else. And there Croatian waters have their stakes. In the area of Varazdin County, there is a company that deals with reflection. Excuse me, if we do, we all talk about the market, the market, the market all the time, but when we have to apply that we have a market, then we all do that there is no market. We have enough trained companies that can maintain channels and anything else. But let's go to the competition and let's get to the lowest price. In this way, when Croatian waters have a share in them, they also have an obligation as co-owner to keep them busy, and does not mean that they are high enough and low enough for them to do so. I was talking in that segment. As far as drinking water is concerned, it's something else entirely. It is, however, communal companies mainly owned by local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51670	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And from these discussions, from these materials to read that there are three significant problems. One problem that imposes this is in any case the issue of solidarity. This solidarity we had very well in the law at the time, and I'm not saying it was good, but it was predictable in any case and it was clear how much of these basics could be raised. And it's written in the light of this bill where it's said, in '98. the yearly source of funding and reflection of the regulation-protective water structures on state waters was a water contribution. And then we abolished it, that principle in which, if we kept it now and if we introduced it now, where we could protect even those who have fewer incomes and tell them that they pay less, and those who have higher incomes to pay more, to participate in all this more, and especially those who are users of everything to pay that water contribution more. And when we abolished that kind of solidarity principle, then we transferred it all to the budget, I'm talking about this part that's listed here, and where we collected it in 2000, we allocated 280 million to make it 198 million at the end of 2005. And that's what comes from funding the budget reflection we've come into this situation for Slavonia to swim with us this year, we've come to the point of getting us out of channels I and II. Orders are growing and in this case the Croatian Army is now cleaning up. We've come into a situation where water cannot flow, that floods occur, and that's what comes from such funding. We know, because that's what it says in this, that 403 million kunas should be allocated to keep it all going. Now according to this way of funding, as foreseen here, there is nowhere to be seen that 403 million kunas will be collected. And the question arises in which way it will be maintained. From these fees and from these contributions that we should collect not only maintenance, construction and part of the budget should be resolved, construction should be resolved. If we know that in the area from Zagorje to Serbia in the whole area, don't count on it to be a flat panel and, say, in Slavonia hill of Bundeva, it's not, we have both Krndija and Papuk and Psunj, Bilogora, it's all some sort of land areas and some possibilities of a flood. In this area, more than 100 accumulator-retention dams are foreseen, barriers that should firstly save Slavonia from the loads that occur during the rainy period. I wonder this way, when we don't know how we're going to maintain the existing one, so what's already been built 15, 20 years ago, when we don't know how we're going to keep it, is the question of how we're going to build a new one. And I wonder at this rate how it is now in this law where we don't know the funds that will be collected whether, for the next 100 years, all these 100 accumulation-retention dams will be built. Floods in Međimurje are proof of the way rivers were worked and maintained and how rivers were dimmed. We know they have two rivers out there that mourn them. We also have in Slavonia the Drava and the Sava that should be protected from the flood, so we need the area between them to protect against the floods. The question arises if there is no means to maintain, that there will be funds for somehow new construction of water facilities. And now, a few more words about solidarity being mentioned here all the time. I wonder what solidarity is and what kind of solidarity is being mentioned here all the time, I wonder what solidarity is if it's only being charged to some people. Solidarity is something that we should all participate in here and anyone else in Croatia in order to build something of the state's interest. And I can't believe that the state isn't in the interest of protecting itself from floods, that it's not in her interest to take care of its rivers and that she's not in the interest of taking care of agricultural land and taking care of the interests of the citizens who live there. In any case, it is a state interest and I therefore believe that this principle of solidarity must be distributed in any case to all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51672	Replica, the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51673	Mr. Kapraljevic has started a topic that is very important. We are, by this law, changing the title or the name of state water, is it, state waterways. Well, that's what we call I. and II. It's a line, isn't it? No state and local waters. But you know what the worst part is? The worst part is that a man has the impression that the state is giving up on it, regardless of what we have international obligations. In fact, many of our rivers have an international character. It's Croatia, it's bordered on the rivers. With this law, even one mile at sea becomes in the intelligence of this ministry whether, in terms of protection. Now, a man wonders if this is the law and this is the way of reckoning we suggest that the state raises its hands from what was yesterday called state waterways. And that seems like a big question to me. I would not want to enter into this high policy of the type Klek or the type of Austria and Austrian citizens, but this may be a question that can also become political at one point because it is in most states a government obligation, and not an investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51674	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club 5 minutes, the distinguished representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51675	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. This matter is very important to this country, and for us it's very important, no matter what you think of it. You've heard all kinds of stories here. People don't even know the matter, so they can speak incompetently and that's allowed, you don't have to speak competently. But this is something that the central government has to worry about. This is matter, this is a sector that in each segment of all four of those segments that we mentioned, the central government must have its position. According to what with these amendments, these two amendments to the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act, I didn't recognize it. I think the central government also didn't recognize this matter and that it's actually happening that it's kind of going to itself. I don't think that's good. You have this lot of makeup that I said last night and the law only changes in a rhetorical sense, and you don't really know. Those who have been in both the previous and the current authorities know that the needs in this sector are much greater than the possibilities and it is difficult to expect that such legal executions should be dealt with in one day or one night or one month or one year, but legal solutions can create assumptions that in a few years, such as social issues as burdens, such as many economic issues as burdens and seem many insolvent, this is also a major problem. I have to tell you that the relationship in the last 15 years according to this segment as much as it seems to have been invested in municipal infrastructure was machete. So, according to this sector, regardless of who was in power, the whole maternal relationship was, and I think it's going to continue and it's not good. That's not good. If we happen to each other in 64, which is probably difficult to happen in Zagreb, but in some areas it can. Samobor can swim very quickly and easily, you know. If Baranja had swam across Batina from the Danube two years ago, you know, when the Danube has the largest water supply, all of Baranja wouldn't have dried up in a few months. It can happen to us, and then when it does, you'll see how we find the funds. Then we'll have to find the funds. This is happening throughout Europe and in the most developed parts of Europe, so why don't we do it too. I know we're in God's grace, right, Zdenko, but the question is, how far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51676	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning of his presentation, a colleague, Jakša, said that this is a very important matter, no matter what we think of it. Well, I just think it's a very important matter. That it was no matter what he called us that we might think differently. I think this is important matter, and it is important not because it will change the way Croatian waters operate but because of the citizens of this country. That's why she's important. It's important that citizens expect their water not to collect but to have it either the same or the lower. That's why she's important. And whether you have to speak competently or not, you need to speak frankly here, because we all know what this is about. We have to fight for principles, and the shades in the law are something less interested in anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51678	Okay. So you think it's important matter no matter what MP Marasovic thinks. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Marasovic, who was also director of Croatian Waters. So it's not true that only this government doesn't run the central, take care of it. Neither did the former leader, and you were the director of the water, so you didn't resign then. It's called mind compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51680	The distinguished representative Marasovic was indeed talking about both the current and the former government. Dear representative Mršić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51681	So I would correct my colleague, Marasovic, who said that I could find solutions to get rid of this matter in two or three years. I think that's what you told your colleague Marasovic that this is an incorrect claim because this is impossible at some point to resolve. This is a question that will have to be invested permanently. So when you build an object, then you have to maintain it. Objects have their own lifetime. Therefore, this issue regulated by this law is permanent, because it is indecisive at any time and always the state will have to worry about it and will always have to isolate citizens and legal persons for both water protection and water use.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51682	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, the esteemed representative Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51683	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So let me say on behalf of the club here in the end I'd say this very extensive debate say a few more words and recapture what's so far defined here and what's said. I have to say, at first, that there's been a lot of talk here about solidarity, total solidarity, and I'm asking myself, and so are many of you, is that right? If we know that drinking water today is not in all our households, especially in our continental area. There are some estimates of 30% to 40%, and every honor in the coast is almost 80%, and I'm glad that's the case. But I must say that in the continental part, in part means Slavonia, in the part of Zagorje, Prigorje, Podravina is unfortunately a critical situation. We know that more water from the wells and it's not, and they don't control themselves the way it used to be. We know and we talked about how many pollutions there are every day. I must say that in my native village of Gaius, which is three kilometers from Vrbovac, the pipe stopped here 100 meters from the village. I honestly believe that drinking water will come in due time. I think that when we talk about solidarity, we all have to ask ourselves whether we should give extra effort, whether we should give an additional effort, I would say, to make sure that in Croatian waters too, this poor percentage, especially on the continent, is fixed and that every household comes to water. What I must stress here is mentioned here and being passed through the law, given that there is not much time, three principles: the principle of economic price, the principle that no one who owes the state can ask the state and that principle relating to the polluter pays for the scattered sources of pollution. I have to repeat my concerns about the economic price. You know, we really need to take good care of what this economic price means, unfortunately, we haven't gotten any financial simulations whether it's much bigger or it's just a little increase, and then when we bring it into some proportions and we've heard a lot of discussion that amounts to water prices, I'm afraid we're going to come into a situation where we don't burden our citizens or what I've been talking about in our debate so that we don't burden our agricultural producers with that economic price. This part that, for us at the Croatian Peasant Party club, is unacceptable, which is the introduction that I have been against for a long time, and we have been fighting for a long time, which is that part of the debt to the country that applies to the water compensation, or here if we are talking about a fee for mellioration in this part. I think it'll be questionable if we tie it up with incentives. I warn you again that it is a part of the job that is sometimes not done, that it is a failure to pay off certain incentives, etc., and here we make a commitment that our agricultural producers must pay this water fee, that they must pay this part because they will otherwise be forced. I don't think that's good. I think, however, given the moment we're in, we could wait with it, I'd say a rigorous measure because I'm honestly afraid that it will lead to certain problems. What I don't want to drop here, the part that we have both on the board quite detail and talked about and in some ways explained is the part that is related to our freshwater fisheries where they were really imposed in a certain way different water fees were such that it directly threatened business. I believe, but we have no approximation that with these changes, there will be a better way of doing business and allowing our freshwater fish producers to now have a fuller lower load, believe and make profitable business. Finally, I would like to say again that because of this section relating to direct burden, it is related to the fact that incentives will be denied to farmers. We refrain from supporting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51684	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Marko Širac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51685	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club is on the view that the proposer has addressed important issues for the financing of the water economy by this law. This primarily refers to ensuring stable and permanent sources of financing. I must point out that this will allow for the development of water supply and disposal, both drinking and waste water, as well as the development of all other parts of the Croatian water economy, including flood defence systems. This will also allow for the recovery of damage caused on flood defence facilities, but also on a meliorative system that has not only been damaged since the war, but also damaged for not maintaining the past 15, 20 years. This is also true for irrigation systems no matter how small they are in the Republic of Croatia, but who wants to make sure that they are well enough to go to Neretva or go to Konavle, and about Eastern Slavonia that we do not speak, there they are destroyed until the end, there no longer exist. For this reason, this Law explicitly resolves and orders the Croatian waters to bring from these sources a meliorative system and a system of disposal into a functional state and just as arranged to hand it over to the county, i.e. users for management. That's what I think, and a three-year deadline has been set. So that one serious dilemma will get rid of, and we don't need to get carried away. There is no real agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia without the functioning of the water-economic system at all levels. Not just on one occasion, but on all, and there is no well-being of our citizens because it is still our citizens without drinking water. We must continue to encourage through these sources and, of course, there remains the role of the state budget and of us MPs when we adopt a state budget to fight for certain plans and programmes that are being adopted. I'd say by introducing these fees that used to be... It is now shared, that this is a very good solution because fees are allocated in a fairer way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transfer of shares from Croatian waters to our local self-government units will end one period that we introduced into the Croatian water economy for the moment when we passed the Water Economy and Water Financing Act in 1995, because it was otherwise impossible to finance this activity. Now there's no need for it to go to whoever it is. Next, I have one more thing to say. It is up to us representatives, but it is up to the Croatian Government to resolve all these criteria that you colleagues have today very extensively and well discussed in the adoption of a water economy management strategy that must come before this Croatian Parliament because we are bringing it, through the water management plans that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings. And it would have ended. Yes, both laws undertake to organise and finance the implementation of these activities on solidarity and reciprocity throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But that solidarity isn't just a right to withdraw funds. It must also consist of the right to fulfil the obligations of anyone who uses water, who uses the general good that is owned by the Republic of Croatia and enjoys special protection. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51686	Thank you. PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51687	Dear Mr. President, honourable members, novices. Here, let me refer briefly on behalf of our club, therefore, to the adoption of this Law on the Funded Water Economy. We also point out the necessary, therefore, to arrange in a fairer and fairer way, therefore, the financing of the water economy itself. But we don't think the solutions offered in this law are in that spirit. We think that there are a lot of issues being raised and the right solutions are not offered, so here is our proposal, if possible, that this Law goes into another reading. In our view, the basic objective is not to ensure safe financing of the water economy system, especially as regards its flood protection and irrigation segments. These are segments that are only at the beginning of development or which are unfortunately heavily abandoned. The irrigation is only at the beginning of its development and billions of kunas will be needed to develop the entire system throughout Croatia, not millions of kunas as provided in the Croatian Waters budgets or in the state budget itself. It's similar in the defense system, therefore, from the flood. We are witnessing, therefore, that the flood defense system is not so much as about the maintenance of the embankment itself but the construction of the embankment that it is defective. So there are a lot of areas that are still at risk of flooding due to a lack of defensive embankments. We think we should take care of it the right way. We said, therefore, that we think that safe incomes for these purposes, among other things, are not enough to keep it together and will not be enough if we rely only on a water contribution. We also warn that this water contribution could cause Croatia to fall on a scale of competing countries, unfortunately we are witnessing that Croatia is falling more and more at that place year after year, and we have said another municipal contribution that is going to be 100, 150, somewhere 200 kuna per metre cubic, and it will probably have to be at that height because what we know about how much this system has received from the state budget somewhere around 600 million kuna, that it will need to be compensated therefore primarily from this part, in this way from a water contribution, because the budget is spoken and predicts that this system from the state budget is being poured only about 80 million kuna. We are also warning about that important project, a large-scale irrigation project carried over to the county's power, the question of how much these funds will even be able to be collected so that the counties as the bearer of this project can start because the funds are collected from the users of the irrigation system, and in fact there is no such system and these funds will not be able to be collected. Actually, that should be settled as soon as possible. So here is our club, for these reasons, will not support this Water Economy Financing Act, but it also warns that it needs to work very well to improve especially in the flood defense system and that as soon as possible and in a proper and quality way, the project of irrigation of Croatian areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51688	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51689	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me begin by thanking you all for the share and participation you took in the discussions on this extremely important law that addresses the issue of the water economy as a whole. Let me also look at a few topics that have been dragged through today's debate, which is a water contribution and solidarity that is related to it. Here I want to make it clear once again that the water contribution collected, that it will be spent on first and second-row waters, means former state and local waters. I would also like to say that this should include the same that the water treatment fee will be used in the water area in which it is collected, and also for the state waters of the first and second order. I also want to point out what is said to affect this water contribution to investment, i.e. investors will not decide to enter the Republic of Croatia. I would like to add here that in our discussions with our colleagues from the European Union, we have been informed that investors are just coming where a regulated flood defence system is being set up, regardless of the need to have additional detachments because they are safe means that the existing flood defence system will protect their material assets, i.e. complete investment that will be invested in a particular area. And let me also say something about these payments-related dilemmas and the possibility of the local administration paying some of the water benefits that would eventually have to be paid by the users of these water charges. Article 38a accurately defined and found that cities and municipalities would transfer to the account of Croatian Waters only what they charge from end-users, meaning there is no possibility that local administration would pay for someone who did not pay for it. I want to add here that regarding the costs incurred by the local administration to collect these fees that include all the material costs that local administration has plus 5% of the margins. Finally, let me further say about the amendment and addition of the Water Economy Financing Act that we expect you to support this Act and all those who support it, and we are confident that by adopting amendments and supplementing this Act, we will permanently address the issue of the water economy in the complete territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51690	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. We have the same plate with a few amendments. State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51692	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51693	Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51694	The government accepts the amendment with the correction, instead of number 2 in number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51695	The Legislative Committee? Thank you very much. In the amended form of amendments accepted. 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51696	The Government shall accept the amendment with a correction so that, instead of Article 2 which becomes Article 2, it is necessary to enter: "in Article 2 which becomes Article 1.".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51697	Consent? Amendment adopted in the amended form. [[Intruder: Consent.]] 3rd MP, Nika Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51698	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51699	Representative Niko Rebić Retracted. [[Intruder: Pulling.]] 4th Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51700	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51701	Amendment 4 accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51702	The government does not accept the amendment with reason. The proposed amendment violates the principle of unity of the water regime. The collection of water contribution funds shall be spent throughout the Republic of Croatia in waters I and II. order according to the plan and programme of water management, not the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51703	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51704	I must admit that I do not accept such an explanation precisely because it is the introduction of a new contribution, and it seems to me that the Government as a proposal should show a little more hearing towards the small environments. That's exactly why I'm asking for a plea. In this way, it would also make it easier to charge because when people see something done with them, they react quite differently, and we know how much it has been so far with the water industry of the collection difficulties. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51705	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 23 votes for, 8 abstentions, 62 against the amendment did not get the required majority. Six. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51706	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51707	It becomes an integral part of the law. 7th Representative of Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51708	The government does not accept the amendment with reason. The water treatment fee shall be used in the water area in which it is collected and according to water management. In the area of the county, it is then collected for a melioration drain and is spent on maintenance of the meliorating treatment facilities owned by the same county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51709	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51710	With the same explanation, please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51711	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 25 for, 7 abstentions, 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51712	The government does not accept the amendment with reason. The water treatment fee is not paid on agricultural land but on all other properties. We do not recognize the reasons why the Law lays down exceptions when all of these categories can be incomed. The fee for the melioration disposal shall be determined by the county, paid only on agricultural land and the proposed solution authorised by the county to prescribe and release exemptions and relief, and shall be managed through those provisions and by part of the social policy that can also be covered by nursing households.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51713	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51714	Ha, I must admit that this is how the government puts social policy management on the weak shoulders of regional self-government units... But the majority of Parliament would accept this amendment, which is exactly why I'm asking for a plea. [[Because of the President's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51715	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 24 for, 10 abstentions, 62 against, did not get the required majority. The 9th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51716	The government does not accept the amendment with reason. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is not the only law governing the work of local self-government units. This section is also regulated in many material regulations, and it is a clear example of the Law on the Communist Economy. The units of local self-government do not impose any new business since they also account for and pay a flat water fee on residential and business premises on the basis of the existing Water Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51717	Thank you. We have to vote. There's no representative. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 20 for, 7 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 10th Amendment of the same representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51718	The government does not accept the amendment with reason. In Article 38a, there is no obligation on the part of the local self-government unit to provide Croatian waters with something that has not been charged. On the contrary, if the local self-government unit acts under this Law to compensate for water treatment, it shall deliver to the bonds of the municipal, municipal and water-edited payments, and the amounts paid shall be reduced to the amount prescribed by law to the Croatian waters, it shall not be subject to the impact of Article 38a.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51719	We have to vote. The representative is not present. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 16 for, 9 abstentions, 63 against, did not get the required majority. 11 representatives of Bozidar Pankretić and Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51720	The government does not accept the amendment with a justification: the proposed Article 38 provides that the payment of the recovery fee to the debtors is limited only to part of the amount of the incentive in real debt rather than the total amount of the incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51721	There's no representative, we have to vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 8 for, 12 abstentions and 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12 representatives of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51722	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51723	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13th and Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51724	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51725	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 14th Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51726	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51727	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51728	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51729	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 16 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51730	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51731	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 17th also of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51732	The government accepts the amendment with the "two" in the word "three".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51733	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51734	The President of the Committee shall accept this transformation and amendment. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment in changed form. The 18th representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51735	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51736	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51737	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51738	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 20th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51739	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51740	It becomes an integral part of the law. 21st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51741	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51742	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 22nd Amendment of Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51743	The government accepts the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-12-06-0.u51744	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 76 votes for, 3 abstentions and 21 against, the Law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. And I am giving the vote Conclusion: the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to conduct a revision of the text Amendments and additions of this Act before its publication in "The People's Journal". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 86 for four abstentions, this conclusion was adopted.
