ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32647	... MPs, we continue to work at the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. [[Home is not saved.]] I also welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a consolidated agenda to continue the session. We move on to, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 246. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Mrs Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished and respected MPs and distinguished representatives. Allow in several sentences to present the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Indeed, the relevant Law of late 2002 has been a valuable effort to address the problem of legal indetermination of this complex area of social policy and an attempt to correct the situation by creating a legal institutional framework for the development of work training and employment of disabled persons, both under general and under special conditions. Unfortunately, the lack of normative normity of the Law was, in particular, insufficient flexibility in the normative nomination of competent institutions for the implementation of the Law and the large number of sublegal acts to which the Law itself referred had the consequence of the fact that the Law could not follow the changes in the system of state administration, in changing the jurisdiction of state authorities and institutions of importance for the application of the law, which were created at the end of 2003. This was the fundamental reason why the Law could not have applied the letter and the spirit of the law. The current Law was further not well normatively in line with the changes made in the area of compulsory insurance contributions, so the incentives provided for by the Law could not be properly applied in the system. This proposal aligns the Law with the new establishment of competent authorities and institutions in the system of state administration responsible for the application of the law. New solutions in the mandatory insurance contribution system regulate the necessity of cross-resor action, particularly the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the process of drawing up implementing rules and supervision over the application of the law. In fact, the area of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons is very specific and requires an interdisciplinary approach and joint action by experts of various profiles. As required by the sensitisation of many direct and indirect participants in this complex area. This proposal specifically regulates the prescribed rights and monetary incentives for employment, retains the quota system with a view to increasing the employment rate of persons with disabilities, regulates the areas of institutions for professional rehabilitation, protection workshops, working centres, and minimises the need for intervention through sublegal acts, and only two necessary regulations for the implementation of the Law are prescribed. The most important change contained in this proposal is the proposed funding system which provides a permanent source of funding from the employment contribution, except for those to be provided, the funds to be provided from the State budget. To this end, a restructuring of the employment contribution has been carried out, for which I remind you already, this High House has provided normative support and in new solutions in the rules on mandatory insurance contributions late last year. The obligation to employ persons with disabilities also extends to legal persons owned or weighted by units of local and regional self-government. Change and shorten prescribed time limits for the compulsory employment of persons with disabilities, and the obligation to hire, I remind you, is to comply with the Labour Act, refers to so-called large employers. The proposal sets out the amount of specific contribution to the employment of bonds. It shall be accounted for on the same basis as the contribution to employment under the rules and contributions to compulsory insurance. All transactions related to the accounting, payment, reporting, payment maturity, liabilities, etc. are linked to specific regulations governing contributions to compulsory insurance. An important component of this proposal is certainly a solution that is important for supporting employment for people with a difficult and difficult degree of disability, which is the possibility of intervening in employment that is extended to institutions for professional rehabilitation and the same possibility is proposed for homes in the social care system. We keep this solution of particular importance as part of personal support for people with disabilities when they need to be employed and when they need special assistance in preparation for such employment. The proposal for a law accurately prescribes measures to encourage employment of persons with disabilities,... the incentives are also in line with the rules governing the area of contribution and the procedure for the submission of claims for monetary incentives is laid down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, respected MPs and respected representatives, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law contains solutions that remove shortcomings which were the reason for the inability to apply the Law properly and fully. These include solutions that are news and progress in creating a system and the possibility of its application in the field of professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. It is therefore proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt and adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32649	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Sir, on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Mr. Marko Turic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32650	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 23rd session held on 16 February 2005 discussed this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, with the Final Proposal for the Law. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body, in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee did not object to an urgent procedure in the adoption of this Act. Following the opening statement, the Committee members supported the adoption of this proposal for a law in the debate. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which has been in effect since December 2002, by creating a legal framework for the development of work training, the employment of disabled persons, repairs a particularly poor situation in this area. However, due to the lack of a set of implementing rules necessary for the application of the envisaged measures, neither the legal institutes of the Law could have been implemented in practice. The adoption of this Act, laying down the competence of individual ministries for the adoption of implementing rules and the exercise of supervision over the application of the Law, as well as the shortening of the time limits for their adoption, will allow for the real application of the Law and the promotion of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the world of work. During the discussion, the Committee members expressed satisfaction with the fact that the bill provides for a permanent source of funding from the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and employment of disabled persons from a special contribution to the promotion of employment of disabled persons. This ensures a smooth flow of funds, which represents a quality improvement compared to the solution so far where the state budget carried the main burden of financing. On a special request from the Committee of Representatives, it further explained that it is in Article 10. Proposal for a law number of persons with disabilities in relation to the number of employees in accordance with general labour regulations and the definition of a large and small employer. After all, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32651	Thank you to the President of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32652	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. We have amendments and additions to the law that have 34 articles in it, and the law of 44 articles itself, which means that it has been amended or proposed to amend almost 90% of the text of the law, and perhaps because of the content and character of the proposed amendments and additions, it would be far more legible and clear that we went with, or received a new bill proposal because these frequent amendments and complemented most often bring great confusion in understanding of the legal rules, and those who should adhere to either as employers, either as state authorities for supervision or users of certain rights under this law. And that is why I appeal this time to really publish the consolidated text of the law if we really want to implement it, given that this year more than 100 million kunas are planned to be collected to function and I hope that finally the functioning of the fund stemming from this law. The law came into force in 12.12.2002. The deadlines for the adoption of the implementing rules were 6 months, so in mid-2003, the first deadlines for employers bound by the law to the employment of disabled persons were 31.12.2004. I can't see from the reasons of the law, and so far there's been different information, is the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund founded or not? Whether it exists formally or not because I remember last year, it seems to me that there were 30 million kunas or 20 million kunas planned for that fund and in an explanation of why the funds were not used was said that the fund had not started to operate. Now, if the fund was established, and it didn't start to work, I don't believe that these amendments too, the additions of the law this year will contribute to the fact that the fund is finally starting to work, but I also remind you of the answers to some parliamentary questions so far, right now in the activation of this fund, the need for amendments to the law has been announced for six months to finally take effect. If, therefore, the Fund exists and has not started to act and these amendments and additions are foreseen by certain government or resolution ministries to adopt certain implementing rules within 3 or 6 months. It's February the month. I'm afraid again this, over this calendar year because of the threefold and slowness, we will not have the preconditions to activate all 104 million kunas as foreseen in this year, of which 20 million in the state budget, and 84 should be collected from the title of special contributions according to reason. Croatia has about 400,000 citizens who are in the category of people with disabilities fully or with reduced working capacity. If I calculated the data correctly, only about 30,000 were employed, and 7 and a half thousand people with disabilities were reported and registered at the Employment Office. In a large number of unemployed persons, as far as Croatia currently has, it is certainly more difficult for disabled people to try to introduce themselves from one side of the Force, and on the other hand, to stimulate employers to employ that category of citizens especially those who are qualified for certain occupations. However, there is no estimate of how many disabled people could be employed in a calendar year by applying this Law? So what is the possible effect in the first, second, third and fourth years of law enforcement. So in these 400 thousand disabled persons or at least 7 and a half thousand who are now at the Bureau how objectively there is the possibility of hiring them and thus probably discharging other state contributions to them because by entering the world of work instead of social incomes, they would make a profit. What I particularly wish to warn is that this law does not resolve, and Croatia has either this amendment and the supplement makes additional confusion. This law came from the assumption that it includes people with disabilities who were born during life, who, not the very day or the moment of birth. In Article 2, we refer to persons with disabilities who have physical, sensory, or mental impairment. Article 3 speaks of persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity, and Article 4 establishes the right to professional training and rehabilitation. In Croatia there are a considerable number of young people, children who have been disabled since birth, who have not been in the world of work and who are not trained for their first occupation by rehabilitation or retraining or prequalification, but in the regular system of education acquire their first profession. What I know well are blind children or blind people. Back in a few years, practice began in Croatia, and it is very good that blind people do not attend special institutions or primary school or high school schools but go to regular basics and high school schools and thus gain the interest of profession or prepare to continue on, for higher or higher education, higher or higher education institutions. From personal experience and example, I know that we have a lot of those who are now in high school, are preparing to study and want to become or qualify for translators. Something Croatia has never had before. In all existing systems of primary, secondary education, social and health care, such disabled persons do not have any additional rights or ability to be monitored by any body of the state authority or any fund financially, technically followed or with professional assistance to acquire their first profession. Even under this law, such a disabled person will not be covered by training and rehabilitation because they are not in the system of special institutions that this law provides for the state to monitor them because they acquire the first profession, they were not in the world of work and their disability is not established in pension insurance but social care. That's why I'm going to submit an amendment to that part of the law. And kindly ask Mrs. Secretary of State to know that any new leadership introduces new potential users always causes resistance or problem. But this is a unique opportunity for us, for the first time, to allow these young people who have decided on the most difficult way to get a profession and interest not in a special system, but in a regular system to be followed by this state fund and during training, especially with the means to start their own business or bussiness after they qualify for such occupations or professions. If we don't cover them with this law, we've put them in a position to be given first of all at the expense of their parents. They will acquire qualifications and occupations that have not been traditional for disabled people so far. And then they'll end up at the employment office, instead of getting into the world of work right away. Only one amendment and two sentences would be sufficient for such young people to be included in this law. And in the end, what I don't understand or have misread the law, and I'm going to beg the correct and decidated answer. Under the current law, the Law imposed an obligation on all state bodies to state-owned companies and local and regional self-government authorities to employ disabled persons depending on the number of employees. Companies or institutions with less than 20 employees were not given the obligation, and they were obliged to pay a special contribution of 0.1% instead. And those who would hire that contribution should not have paid. Article 10a is replaced by the following: if I read the text correctly. We now have the following that these same state bodies, institutions and businesses have an obligation to employ disabled persons and in this year on 50 employees of at least 1 disabled person. And these same legal entities have a contribution obligation of 0.1% and those who do not employ 0.2% of the special contribution. If I read this proposal correctly, change and supplement. So we introduce both the employment obligation and the payment obligation of 0.1% and those that would not employ a 0.2% contribution. The meaning and logic of the existing law was to stimulate all state administration bodies, all state-owned companies, local and regional self-government authorities. Either to hire or to pay a special contribution. We are now introducing both employment and two types and a special contribution. I don't think that was the basic meaning of this law if then the difference between the contributions of those who hire and pay contributions and those who don't hire and pay contributions is not large enough to achieve the basic objective of hiring people with disabilities with these stimulating measures. So I'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary of State to give this article 10-10a. interprets what is actually now wanted to be done with this contribution and the commitment to employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32653	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary Vera Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32654	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you will allow the first answer regarding the rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. He is in function. At the end of the year, the Governing Council of the Fund decided on the allocation of funds to those entities that have submitted such requests for support for their programmes. Or to support, unfortunately, the resolution of the commitments they had not been able to implement so that practically all the institutions that exist in Croatia today and are engaged in rehabilitation and employment received certain funds that they sought to support their programmes or to resuscitate commitments. So the fund works. As far as your contribution issues are concerned, it is said that, as I said in the introduction, restructuring of the employment contribution if you have noticed in the mandatory contributions regulations, therefore all employers, except for small employers, have reduced their contribution to employment at the level of the general obligation, which makes it an equal commitment of 1.7 to all employers. On the other hand, those who have a job obligation and do not fulfil that quota obligation are paid additionally of 0.2% in accordance with the obligations resulting from their failure to fulfil the obligation of quota employment. So, about that because it's a word. So restructuring contributions total. 1.7 is divided so that all employers single out 0.1, so other than small employers. And for quota employment or failure to fulfil that obligation, another additional contribution is. Of 0.2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32655	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Ruža Lelic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32656	Mr. Vice President, the Secretary of State and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club strongly supports the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in order to enable more effective application of declared and prescribed rights of persons with disabilities in real life. And all with the purpose of empowering these people to gain more control over their lives and to be able to fit into society. According to the 2001 census of the population of the Republic of Croatia and the disability survey conducted, 9.7% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia account for persons with disabilities or 429 thousand 897, which we must admit is not a small number. According to the cause of disability are the most numerous disabilityes of the disease. 197 thousand 410, disabled workers in total 109 thousand 104, and disability since birth 25 thousand 186. The data also speaks of 50 million Europeans with disabilities. So far, approaches have been based mainly on the compassion and perceived helplessness of people with disabilities, and we cannot accept such attitudes. Persons with disabilities are not able to fully enjoy all the shell rights. They are often excluded from society of equal opportunities and access to social wealth. This is access to all education, new technologies, health and social services, sports and leisure activities, consumer goods and services available to other citizens. Statistical data show an unacceptable low level of education and low levels of employment for people with disabilities. In total, around 7 and a half thousand unemployed persons with disabilities were recorded in the Croatian Employment Service records, but there are certainly a number of people who could and would like to work. Therefore, emphasis should be placed on the rehabilitation and training of individuals. By changing the pension insurance law that has started to apply since 1 January 1999, people with disabilities have worked to call it that, although their definition has changed with a change of laws have been put into retirement due to professional incompetence and a part of them would certainly be at the employment office. As it has continued to reduce the number of people with disabilities, a national strategy for the single policy of persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 has also been adopted, covering a number of measures that should enable disabled people to find and retain a suitable job. The Foundation for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has also been established, and the establishment of the Ombudsman institution is announced. The promotion of comprehensive access to disability and people with disabilities require changes in current practice at several levels. It is primarily necessary to ensure that services are at the service of persons with disabilities to coordinate within and between sectors, and that there is a rule on persons with disabilities without them. It is also necessary to support their families, their organisations in implementing their political and social frameworks at all levels so that they can participate in dialogue with the government, enter the decision-making structure and make progress on equality and inclusion in society. At all levels of decision-making, existing mechanisms for consultation and dialogue must be established and strengthened to enable disabled persons to contribute, through their organisations, to the planning, implementation, supervision and evaluation of any action taken. A strong alliance between the Government, its ministries, in particular the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is a fundamental lever for the most effective progress of equal opportunities and participation in the society of persons with disabilities. In the media, more and more information is needed on such persons, especially with positive examples of success in life and work, promoting employers who hire those persons. All of this can contribute to the awareness of human differences and understanding and help as well. However, certainly employment is the key to involvement in the community and there is a need to make special efforts to improve access to people with disabilities to employment. Rehabilitation and employment is one of the important ways to combat the exclusion of persons with disabilities from the community and to promote their independent life and dignity. This requires not only the active mobilisation of the social partners of the listed ministries but also the whole society to continue and strengthen measures that already exist and introduce new ones. In the proposed law, we particularly consider the article of Law 17 and 13 which speaks of employment of persons with disabilities and in addition to employment under general conditions where it is most desirable, but I think it will be the most difficult, we also find it quite acceptable to consider employment under special conditions, employment in institutions and companies established for the employment of persons with disabilities, etc. Protected workshops and self-employment, establishment of crafts, establishment of activities of free interest and establishment of activities of agriculture and forestry. In each of these disabled persons, they can find their place. Because people with disabilities in many jobs can be completely satisfied. For all of these types, strong support, tax relief, favourable credit, grants, strong advisory services, employment control and spending of funds is required, in particular in terms of employment under general conditions. It is good that changes to the employment obligation laws extend to persons with disabilities and to legal persons owned and largely owned by units of local and regional self-government and introduces a specific contribution to fostering employment at an employment rate of 0.1%, which will also be financed by the Employment Fund. But the law itself isn't enough. Without strong involvement of the entire society, including here and persons with disabilities and their organisation in the exercise of their rights, legislation remains an empty framework. But I am convinced that, with the full support of this law, this law will win results and that is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32657	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's continue the club debate. Next is counterpart Ljubica Lalic, the Croatian Peasant Party Club. And before that, one notice. The 25th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at 13:30 in the committee president's office, room 244. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32658	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities at the end of 2002 was motivated by the desire to create legal frameworks for the active inclusion of persons with disabilities in the world of work. Negative economic movements over the last 14 years have resulted in a decline in employers' interest in professional rehabilitation, employment and work of disabled people. Those were the first ones to run out of work, and the unemployed don't seem to have a chance of getting a job. Professional rehabilitation, employment and work of people with disabilities is of particular interest to every society. And it is through the care of disabled people that the social sensitivity and humanity of society are assessed. How human and socially sensitive we are to society are to the following data. In the 1980s, there were 39 companies in Croatia who hired about 7,000 workers, of which more than 50% were people with disabilities. Today, such companies are only 5 of which are the largest part under bankruptcy, only two businesses, thanks to the support of the local self-government unit and the Croatian Employment Service. Persons with disabilities who have been employed over the last 14 years have been fired as a technological surplus. After the privatisation of social enterprises to new owners, such workers were not a working-attractive population. When more than 188 thousand are added to these persons with disabilities registered at the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Family and Defence, we will conclude that in Croatia there are 7.4% of people with disabilities in their working age. Previously, the disabled are not trained to work according to the remaining health skills but are retired, i.e. have a reduced disability pension. As social peace was bought through the pension system very quickly, there was almost equal number of pensioners and the number of pensioners. Retirement reform had to take place because of the insufferability. However, in the shadow of the reform of the pension system, a change in the disability insurance system was carried out, so that the disability insurance reform was based solely on the projection of possible savings by abolishing certain rights or by transposing previous rights to new reduced rights. The process completely disregarded the issue of the prevention of disability, the employment of disabled workers and the consideration of other obligations towards them arising both from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and from conventions which are binding for Croatia. The lack of care for people with disabilities has led to partial social-based legal solutions instead of creating disability insurance with the aim of taking over social, professional and economic roles in relation to their remaining health skills. It is recalled that the application of the Pension Insurance Act from 1.1.1999 should be initiated by law on pension and disability insurance on the basis of the remaining work capacity. The right to deploy, i.e. to work on other relevant jobs, shall be abolished, the right to work with reduced working hours, the right to requalification or qualification and the right to an adequate amount of salary compensation. All these rights are translated with that date, so on January 1, 1999, after official duty on disability pension due to professional incompetence to work. The amount of that pension depends on what right has been recognised to an employee before the entry into force of this Act and on the fact that he is disabled or unemployed. All the illogicalness of the solution is reflected in the fact that, for example, the invalidity of work which has been established according to previous regulations due to injury to work or occupational illness will be paid to achieve 1/6 disability pensions, which is only 264 kuna, while the disability that has become it for the same reason, but will, after 1 January 1999, achieve 1/3 disability pensions, which averages thousands and 80 kunas. Such a solution certainly violated the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens before the law, but this should be decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, not by us. Citing this problem, "The Voice of Conscious" of 25.4.2004, I quote: "The most important thing to do is to take the initiative of the new government, which at least for the time being shows courage and the will to correct injustice is not only the previous SDP coalition authorities but also the first HDZ government," the quote concluded. This attitude towards people with disabilities is a mistake, according to the voice of the council, the first HDZ rule that was not corrected by the coalition government. During the coalition government, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was passed. The law came into force in 12.12.2002. In 2003, also during the coalition government, a National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities was adopted from 2003 to 2006 covering a series of measures to enable people with disabilities to prepare, find and retain an appropriate job in the economy. Unfortunately, according to the promoter himself, the amendments and additions to the Law to improve the status of persons with disabilities in 2003 and 2004 were in fact lost years. The Professional Rehabilitation Act was passed but was not implemented from the Proposer's explanation. I quote: "In view of the circumstances that it was necessary to draw up and adopt a series of implementing rules which, for objective reasons, were not adopted during 2003, these legal institutes provided for in the Law so far could not have been implemented and implemented in practice", completed the quote. In 2004, they were unable to do so because by establishing a new government, jobs from the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, therefore, the former ministry, in one part, passed into the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, in the second part of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which raised the question of the jurisdiction to adopt implementing rules, as well as the exercise of supervision over the application of the Law. In this confusion of jurisdiction, it passed in 2004 and now we have before us amendments and additions to the Law. It is likely that they lead to a delay in the adoption of implementing rules so that it is likely that 2005 will continue without any improvement in the status of disabled persons. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that it took a year to distinguish jurisdiction between only two ministries. We assume that this is a failure to find the reason why the planned and secured funds in the 2004 Ministry of Economy Budget amounting to 18 million kunas and intended to finance and co-finance the programme of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities have not been spent. This certainly cannot be called saving because it is to the detriment and burden of disabled people. Realising the budget of other ministries would also make it clear that caring for people with disabilities is not a state priority. We believe that they should be because through their care the state government shows, and the people assess how socially sensitive it is. The club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the amendment and supplementation with the appeal for as fast as possible because persons with disabilities are able to work in the rest of their health skills, and after 1 January 1999 they are not subject to special employment records. No body has the obligation to intervene in employment and to cooperate with employers in order to enable them to work and to adapt their remaining jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32659	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the SDP Club, counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32660	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it's already become a phrase when it's spoken in any sense, in any question of disability, that it's going with a principled thesis that civilization, democracy, social sensitivity of society is measured by both how and how and to what extent society protects the weaker, and especially the disabled. I remember the serious problems we faced four and a half years ago trying to bring into this country an extensively solved area of social life into some sort of system and order, the kind of problems we've faced. The first problem was the fact that there was no central body in Croatia that needed to take care of people with disabilities systematically. Tom, it wasn't an accident why it was like that. The fact is that in Croatia the disabled are the social category, the social group that was divided in terms of its rights, and then it was no wonder that the disabled were in various systems that were normally not coordinated. I remember the problem in 2001 we formed a team of professionals dealing with social policy, especially the problem of disabled people, to simply create a catalogue of social rights for people in this country in preparation for the application of the European Social Charter. What problems we have faced when it comes to rights issues, the exercise of the rights of disabled people. We have also faced incredible and drastic and no legitimate differences in the exercise of the rights of individual categories of people with disabilities, given the etiology of their physical damage. There have been most drastic cases, differences between individual rights, individual people with disabilities in terms of etiology were 1:17 in drastic cases. That means someone's eye, someone's arm or leg was worth 17 times the arm, leg, or eye of someone else. This could have happened in a country where, I say, no one was systematically dealing with this problem. After the discussion of the former state, part of the law was passed uncritically, some new ones were added, and in this extensive accumulation of rights in which no one really cared, and such illogicalities and such injustices as they happened. When we were comparing ourselves with some countries in the field of employment and inciting the employment of disabled persons, for example, with our neighbouring Slovenia, we came up with amazing data that, for example, in Slovenia, it works about 260 if I'm not mistaken there was this number of 260 protection workshops, and in Croatia we had 4 or 5 that have systematically collapsed or have been constantly on the verge of failure, I mean TECOB, I mean the Sirač, I mean the URIHO, good URI is something better, because it was co-financed from the city of Zagreb in most parts. However, we were not able to protect or regulate the area of employment or in those remaining 4, 5 protection workshops or companies that operated in some hybrid sense and as companies that went out on the free market and in one part as a protection workshop. It was precisely a crucial reason to apply to the writing of a new law, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, holding that all the social rights that are achieved in the welfare system and in the regimes so as to say the social welfare of other ministries, various ministries, that I can in no way compensate for the fact that the best social protection of that man and that person who can live from their own work and provide themselves and their family with a decent life. The point was, so we're not inventing hot water, but the next solution the whole world knows. Let's just help, we're just subporting to push, so to say little employers and encourage carrots and beatings to get those who are objectively harder to go to the labour market to be comfortable with them in a certain way. And that was the whole philosophy and meaning, so making one of these laws, that saw the light of day somewhere under the end of 2002. And I, like my predecessor, can express regret that we did not finish or have no time to finish the job until the end of 2003, although the Fund was founded in 2003, the Fund for the Employment of Persons was established, money was secured. In 2004, nothing in this sense happened. Nothing happened. And it's hard for me to explain and understand why the sublegal acts couldn't be passed, why these changes that we are now witnessing and which we will, of course, support, why they haven't been made before. This is how of the 24 million kuna planned by rebalancing came to 21 million kunas intended for employment, incentivising the employment of disabled people has actually not been spent except I think 27, 28. On the 12th of last year, some 7 or 8 million kunas went to certain companies, i.e. institutions dealing with the employment of disabled persons, so the money was de facto kept neutral, and the law guaranteed and denied to the disabled who were absolutely needed. I support the changes of course in this law, especially the fact that it is in line with the new Labour Act, although it is in the very Labour Act that a whole series of provisions that open up space for the easier employment of disabled persons as well as others, the fact that various forms of flexible employment are given the right of citizenship and that disabled persons will, therefore, be given the opportunity to work at home, with several employers, etc., to those atypical forms of employment, which can be primarily interesting, interesting, therefore, persons with disabilities. Hoping that the situation we were 10 years old in Croatia would not be repeated and that last year was only an excess in the systematic care of disabled persons, therefore hoping that the current situation which was truly unsustainable for people with disabilities was not considered to be too responsible and that we were also lost by the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth, which was a central place that generated both the national strategy and co-ordinated by the national strategy for people with disabilities that it was missing, that their function had not been taken over, that we had actually brought ourselves into a situation, that this is how which the ministry, as the service determines, decides that these individual rights or certain regulations are being brought forward, without sufficient coordination, compliance with other parts of the system. It's not a good situation, it's not a good solution. The introduction of the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities may help, but should not serve as an alibi for non-work or non-coordinated, non-quality work of the Government's bodies, state institutions and organisations to care for, therefore, co-ordinated action and protection of disabled persons, particularly in the field of labour and employment. I also welcome the amendment in this Act to go with the contribution, and that this is how indeed in a stable way to ensure the financing of the employment of disabled persons. But for this and for them to be penalized, we may do so in monitoring the application of this Act, that those who do not comply with their obligation on the quota employment of disabled persons, as indicated in the proposal are actually in the current Law, and here is the proposal to amend the Employment Act of Persons with Disabilities. While believing that the Ministry of Economy that has now assumed responsibility over the employment of disabled persons, which in itself does not have to be bad, indeed in the employment system will recognise that disabled persons and that they will be able to feel it actively, disabled persons are not working people and that with the rest of their ability they can be extremely productive in what they are doing, that this will be for the benefit of not only disabled persons, but also for the benefit of society as a whole. I personally went to, I mean, all the workshops, I followed the way people with disabilities work, and I made sure that where normal working conditions are provided, where they are provided with jobs where they can fully satisfy, not only are they fully in their efficiency equal to people who are not disabled, but they are often more productive and more productive. So this is no mercy of society. The disabled have the right to demand and to require that, given their difficulty in employability as an alternative and in other areas, they are in a certain way privileged when it comes to employment. And finally, let me just say, I regret the fact that despite 64 000 employees through employment incentives that have provided, among other things, employment for a number of people with disabilities that have come to serious problems in financing these measures, they do not make up for others and they seem to have been put out of force after all. I don't think that's a good thing, if whatever they want to change, let it be done, but let it be transparent and those who have hired and have the right to encourage let them get and make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32661	Thank you very much, we have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32662	So esteemed colleague Vidovic said there is no more body that coordinates the politics of disabled persons, which is not true because there is a commission from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for people with disabilities who are now regulating all issues and caring with people with disabilities. So there's a body.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32663	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the party of Croatian pensioners representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32664	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I have to say that it has been 10 years since those former institutions for the employment of disabled persons were left without legal basis and without the subsidies they received for the employment of disabled persons. Such institutions in the former state have invested a lot of money, but it should be said that employees themselves, pardon, therefore, disabled people have given up part of their wages to build and modernise their production facilities. So, we can freely claim that they have never had milk and honey. In 1994, therefore, those institutions had an obligation to convert themselves into companies and to continue their business under the Law on Commercial Companies in one of the forms of a company of capital or to stop working. The company Tekop from Pula, where I have certain experience related to the employment facilities of disabled people, went that way. One part of such institutions, e.g. Uriho Zagreb,... Split, Cirac continued to operate as institutions in its own legal vacuum and their agony lasted for 6-7 years until they were jointly rehabilitated by the state and local administration and regional self-government by entering the equity portfolio. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, awaiting a new law adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 22 November 2002, Tekop from Pula ended up in bankruptcy. What do I mean by this? I want to say that we have dealt with people with disabilities in these areas and, most importantly, we have dealt with the creation of preconditions and we have taken care of equal working status and social inclusion and integration in the world of work. So, we've been dealing. Politically, this system has been torn down and the state has tampered with the fate and existence of disabled people by denying that they are weaker on the labour market, that they need help and positive discrimination. And this process is significantly marred by the position of a social state that must simply take care of the weaker. It is saddened that the new Law came into force in November 2002 and that it was not applied in practice in two years, which is due to the lack of implementing rules. It is regrettable that Croatia is getting pucks in its opinion on the candidate of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union from the title of human rights violations, persons with disabilities. It is unfortunate if this is the only motive to pass this Law, namely Amendments and Supplements to this Act by an urgent procedure. The only real motive could be to build an effective system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people and to develop awareness and social care about disabled people and to involve them in all pores of society. It is worth all our efforts and it is our mirror and, of course, our ticket to the European Union. I am returning to the discussion on Tekop from Pula, therefore, to a former institution for the employment of disabled people who did not welcome the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, but in 2001, the will of the workers on the Union's initiative to launch bankruptcy due to 15 months of non-payment of salaries. At the end of 2002, it became certain that the assets of the creditor had to be cashed and settled by the creditors because the city of Pula did not want to enter into the process of taking over the company in bankruptcy with assets and liabilities. I then launched a personal initiative supported by the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia to give up revenue based on bankruptcy in front of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the Croatian Pension Insurance and Ministry of Finance and to provide basic capital for the establishment of Tekop new workshop in Pula. I must praise this occasion, but I hope it will not surprise the former Minister of Labour and Social Care Mr. Vidovic because he had the understanding of this initiative no matter how dissatisfied we were during, it took a whole year for the state to give up its claims but it is important that the state gave up and that it transferred its rights to three new founders, which is the Union of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, the County of Istria and the City of Pula. And in Pula, there was a new Tekop Protective Workshop. We had indications that, at the county level together with the city of Pula, we were able to build an institution, however, because of this, we gave certain amendments to the Croatian party of pensioners today, given that we could not be the founders of the institution and here we believe that a handicap of the legislation so far will explain in the amendments, but either way we managed to establish a protection workshop and in July 2004 the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor and the present secretary of state were at the opening of the Tekop Protective Workshop in Pula. And I must, of course, be proud of it and share the enthusiasm of both Secretary of State and Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President of the Government when we established together that, retired, that, excuse me, the most qualified in terms of space equipment, in terms of machines and devices given in this facility for sewing protective and working clothing. I think that, as citizens and as social entities, we have given everything that disabled people and should have and what disabled people deserve to be involved in the world of work, so that they can do what is best and that they can proudly realize all those skills they possess and contribute in the greatest sense to their existence. So I can speak competently of this Law because in some ways I have tried it directly, directly, directly in application, so I can speak both commendably and can point to shortcomings. As far as these shortcomings are concerned, I appreciate the proposal's efforts to comply with labour legislation. However, I would ask that special attention be paid to the proposal of Article 6 which proposes to delete Article 8 of the basic law because we have therefore contacted the Croatian Association of Persons with Disabilities, and they say of the occasion the following. Regardless of the obligations of all employees defined in the Labour Act to disabled persons, it is particularly important to write to them in the law and their obligations. If we do the law and do it for them, I don't think it can normally bother them to write again and to make them feel better about their obligations. As regards Article 16, we propose that institutions can be established individually or jointly by the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government, Croatian Employment Service, Association of Employers, trade unions, associations of persons with disabilities of the humanitarian association, religious communities and other legal and physical persons. In this way, we allow the county level to develop from an opportunity a roof association that could be a cluster or a roof position for a cluster of possible protection workshops or working centres for disabled people. Which means that this facility could also implement a systematic policy of hiring disabled people and professional rehabilitation. In this context, these proposals are amendments. We also predict that the institution in this elaborate policy of professional rehabilitation of the employment of disabled persons could be the founder of protection workshops and manufacturing centres. We also suggest that in Article 27, a very rigorous condition for the settlement of such an institution, or a 5-year workshop, is reduced to three. We must be like a society open to reduce these criteria. For example. We at the Council of Expert Advisors have a ten-year standard of work experience. I think it's exaggerating that we have to give young people who come with new knowledge a chance to deal with these kind of activities, or to run these kind of centers, or these kind of protection workshops or working centres. So we need to open this story up a little bit and be open to new ideas. I would also point out to the promoter Article 9 in the basic law of Article 10(1), where it is fairly incorrect to say that the obligation to pay contributions, the employment obligations are owned by companies or the bulky ownership of the state of regional administration and self-government. I think that this will in some way make problems, given that 0.1% is owned and there is a significant difference between partial ownership and excessive ownership of the state, i.e. local administrations and regional self-government. I also point out to the promoter that employers who create people with disabilities who are not in that way have no ownership structure either in part or in the bulk of state or regional self-government. They're not foamed because they're creating a disabled person. And we know that we have activities that are so-called. Manufacturers of disabled persons with positions of unregulated relationships and protection at work. And what I also point out to the promoter I think this is a good job but that this job must continue and talk about the poor conditions of the work of creating people with disabilities in that part, and it must comply with this law and in some way close the system. Now we have an open system to protect the work and here open, so unrelated systems. In this context, I would like to point out to the Proposer to this problem. Finally, the Croatian Party of Retired People will support and vote in favour of the amendments and additions to this Act, but we believe that this law is only the first step towards creating good preconditions for creating a system that achieves the socialisation and inclusion of disabled persons and the achievement of their life-saving dream that they can be worth, earn and contribute and realize the skills they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32665	Thank you very much, dear colleague. No more club reports. We're going to an individual debate. First of all, she's a colleague of Lucia Chikesh's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32666	Dear vice president, respected secretary of state, colleague and colleague. Of course I support the bill's amendment and the additions to the law on professional rehabilitation of employment of persons with disabilities. And I support his compliance with the labour law. But I'll just look at a few statements here today. It's said we don't need to invent hot water, of course we shouldn't invent hot water because since 1955 there's been a UN recommendation on professional rehabilitation of disabled people. At that time, the United Nations General Assembly decided to advocate a comprehensive global action programme for the full participation of people with disabilities in social life and in the development of UN member states. And of course I've already encouraged this recommendation that you can see that it's almost 50 years old, 83 in Geneva has been passed a convention on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. And then our country agreed to ratify this. We've been talking about employment all the time, but there's also protection workshops here all the time. I must stress that the protection workshops are also almost past. Invalids should be included in normal life, if we create protective workshops of disabled people we have already gotoized them in one way we did not socialize them or allow their both mind and physical and intellectual and all kinds of abilities to come to terms. So I'm absolutely against it if there are already these and there are protection workshops that we're trying to stop them from slowly transforming them into something else. In no way can a person with developmental difficulties get full expression in an environment that is not stimulating. We need to give it a stimulating environment, and in this way we are increasingly acting positively in its development in the contribution of society. Therefore, this support for the protection workshops should be put under investigation in any case and it should be pursued by something else. We believe that we have already taken the first step in the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia, and when we built it, I was part of that team that was building a programme of economicisation and decentralisation of the social care system, and that is where we predicted that people with disabilities should be involved in all the social and cultural life of this country. But when we talk about disabled people, I see that first of all, all we always mention is physical disability. But what if we have a physical disability and we have a mental retardation? How to include these persons and how to enable them to do so. Anyone who apriori is going to criticise some law I find not welcome. No law hinders anyone in his imagination and in his work. Although there's no law on hiring people with mental retardation. It's a different category than a disabled person. Body disability is something else, but when physical disability is combined with mental retardation it is a far greater and more difficult circumstance where we can provide it. But when there's an environment that wants to support it, which she understands, then I'm going to show you an example of how working organizations and without laws and without being stimulated, how they've hired people with physical disability that's combined with mental retardation. And here in the County of Split-Dalmatia, better said in the immediate vicinity of Split in Solin, there is a company that without any problem has hired a person with a heavy and severe mental retardation and therefore we didn't need much talk or people in this sense asked for special conditions from either state or society. They have in many ways helped the protégé of an institution whose head I am, as these individuals have come to full expression after a very short period of time. These individuals were both mentally and intellectually advanced and in one way the entire collective, which counts out of several hundred employees, has been sensitizing that there must be people like that in our midst who can do very good. But that's what it's supposed to be. Experts from institutions that care about people with developmental difficulties must go out into such working organizations and work together with these workers to make good acceptance of such a population. And now you're gonna say it's illegal. It's not illegal because we have the same relationship between the rehabilitation centre and the work organisation we've regulated. We've regulated the law and we're not past the law, and our protégés have achieved what is superior. We can't say that we're behind Europe and we can't say that it's just good will you forgive. After all, I will not be immodest now, that we have an institution in Croatia that is the leading institution in Europe. Well, I'm sorry, then we should learn from each other. I would like to advocate, in any case, stimulating working organizations, or protected workshops and institutions, to minimise them and to strive for them to be gone. To include all people with disabilities regardless of the degree of damage in the normal social environment, because then we'll get a bigger effect on their social and intellectual and all kinds of development. And besides, I'm saying that these protection workshops are going down to a minimum, and of course they can't be in one place all the time, they have to have some kind of economic level. Everyone's looking through it. The economic level is and the economic contribution is very important. I certainly support the law without further ado, and I support all those that are as much as possible to encourage every economic operator to take these persons into their work organisation, and it is on the job to go to this work organisation, to prepare a work organisation for the reception of such persons and, of course, work together in their harmony. I think that without large funds, millions will be released, without large funds, great effects will be achieved and we have shown that in several places in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32667	Thank you very much, colleague. The following is Zdenka Chuhnil's representative for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32668	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I should probably express my satisfaction that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities goes according to an urgent procedure and, on the basis of this final law of 2002, will better say the effective application of the declared and prescribed rights of persons with disabilities in real life and as the promoter states, quote: "It is a law which, after two years of its adoption, has not been applied in practice which, for the consequence, has been a violation of the fundamental human rights of persons with disabilities established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." I will add that all previous governments have violated the fundamental human right of persons with disabilities because, since 93 years ago, the status and employment of persons with special needs has not been resolved. It is known that by the year 93, workshops that employed disabled workers had tax reliefs, easier on the basis of health and pension insurance, and as several of my predecessors said here, there were 39 protection workshops that employed more than 3.5 thousand people. By pushing them into the market, only three people who today employ less than 400 workers survived in the competition, and I talked about it in the part where the human rights programme was discussed here. Split's DES and Uriho Zagreb were fortunate to have survived thanks to the city's subsidies. Unfortunately, the third Suvenir Sirać institution with 80 employees was not so fortunate, and more than 50% are people with disabilities, or persons with reduced working capacity. It is an institution that has just hired disabled Bjelovar-Bilogor County for 30 years. More could be said the area of the Daruvar region because it absorbed young people educated by special programmes both in Rudolph Steiner and in high school. Unfortunately, workers in that facility don't get paid for more than a year. They don't even have hospital treatment because of unpaid contributions. And if I add that they have a blocked account for seven years, you can see how much someone's been playing with the fate of these people. By transferring the problem to the local self-government unit, it has failed because it is the municipality of Sirać, which itself receives assistance because it is located in the area of special state care. Under the Constitution, but also the 2002 law, care should nevertheless be taken over in part by the state, i.e. the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of persons with disabilities. And while the government is balling whether... in terms of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health and Social Care or the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, we still have 80 people with special needs who are struggling to survive without pay. I'm stressing again this is about a company that has a market, which has an export programme, but the competition can't handle it without help, because once again I'm talking about people with reduced working capacity. Why then education through special schools, indulging in usefulness and including in normal social life when, after being old, one-sided decisions and not implementing the law, these people literally throw themselves into the street, and I think something about it here and speaking and fellow Lesar and announced the submission of amendments that I will definitely support because the law does not see a complete resolution of these very persons. Once again, I would like to point out that the National Programme for improving the quality of life of people with disabilities was adopted in 99. In 2003 we adopted a national single policy strategy for people with disabilities for the period 2003-2006. In 2002, we passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment, as it was then said to improve the markedly poor state of employment of persons with disabilities, in order to improve their inclusion in the world of work, but thus primarily contribute to their personal and common social security. It's been more than two years, and we're satisfied with the finding that they haven't passed sublegal implementing acts, that because of the reconstruction of the Ministry, there's no authority and who needs to adopt implementing acts and supervision, and I think that's exactly the fundamental problem, we have good laws in the field of minority rights, but they are not implemented and no one controls the implementation, we have good laws on gender equality, the government's office, and until constitutional protection, and the practice deprives everything. We have a national strategy of a single policy for people with disabilities, laws and, until the constitution of defined rights of disabled persons and never less and less protection of persons with special needs. Friends and colleagues of this House, we all urgently have to make changes to this Act if it is necessary and to assign the Ministry within what time it must submit a report to the Assembly on what has been done, because let us not forget about the 10% of the population as registered persons with disabilities and their quarter is at the Employment Office and part of the employees does not receive the salary and has no health insurance. At the same time, in the 2004 Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, the amount allocated to 20 million was not spent nor spent. We should finally ensure the effectiveness of the existing rules, which will allow for the full integration of persons with disabilities into social life, these changes have a purpose if they will quickly follow the adoption and implementation, define criteria for the establishment and financing of both protection workshops and work centres. In order to address the status of persons who are not able to find employment in companies or institutions of 10th quality. It would be truly disastrous to spend two more years on the adoption of sublaws, to wait a year for elections, and to transfer this hot and unsettled potato to another government. And I'll agree with my colleague, Chikesh, who says who criticises the law is not well-intentioned. But I'm going to ask what's wrong with not implementing these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32669	Thank you very much. Madam Vera Babic's secretary of state came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32670	Madam Vice-President, I thank you for your contribution to the debate on this proposal, but I would like to warn you of the part where the Sirac Institute was apostrophe with a claim of grave condition, the pay for inability to achieve healthcare. These allegations of yours do not end up responding to the truth, namely the fact that the Sirac facility is in very difficult condition, but also the fact that it barely meets the percentage for the status of the institution for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, simply because there is only one above the number of those who determine the percentage that such an institution would have that status. As for the adjustment of their programme, unfortunately the fire that took place there destroyed labour resources, etc., was a consequence of inability to work. It is true that no pay has been paid under the collective contract because these people have not even worked, but they have been paid a minimum wage, all recovery has been filed by the one who has the majority share that is the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and just a few days ago the funds for payment of salaries have been remunerated although, of course, Sirac does not work. I also assure you that, at the request of this Ministry of Health and Social Care and the warning that it would possibly be about the inability to achieve health care, it is also not exactly health care workers can achieve accordingly, and the consequences you have been talking about are not such, although they are very serious and should be taken into account and, as you know, the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship has committed very much together with the county and other local administration entities to finally resolve this status because I think we are close to a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32671	Thank you to the secretary of state. The following is the debated representative Vesna Škulić, who will be elected by his colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32672	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that the purpose of rehabilitation is achieved only after the person has been qualified for productive work and is employed by this aspect of people with disabilities could be referred to as a group that is difficult to employ. At a time of rapid progress in information, technology and technology, the main disadvantage in employment is not only disability but often inadequate and inadequate professional skills. Under the conditions of legal and labour market activity, appropriate education and training is necessary for certain interests in accordance with the capabilities and employment opportunities according to the needs and offers of the labour market. Generally speaking, this concept of professional rehabilitation and employment means changing their position from the current status and symbolic position in a dynamic and equal legal relationship. However, what does practice tell us? The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment is very good, and I will support it, however, when it comes to its application in practice, how will it run? As a result, there is a national single policy strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 that regulates complete problems and policies towards people with disabilities. Let's imagine the situation when one person, we don't have to go far from Samobor, gets a job in the City of Zagreb in what way will it get to its job? According to the national strategy, transport of people with disabilities to their jobs should therefore require a multidisciplinary approach to address not only this problem but the whole policy, or the problem with people with disabilities. Again, we come to a situation that those who are excluded from the labour market will still remain excluded, so these are the most difficult categories of people with disabilities. It will happen that cities that do not have specialized transport, cities that do not have low-level buses will not be able to translate the person into their jobs. So she's automatically out of the labour market. She would also talk about a system of education for people with disabilities. In the Republic of Croatia there is one institution that is the Center for the Education and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, for people with physical impairment, because I agree here with my colleague Chikesh, we are now talking exclusively about one category of people with disabilities, so blind and impaired and people with physical impairment, and we are not talking about people with mental retardation. This Dubrava Centre has been existing for 40 years, and nothing has been invested in it in 40 years. If I tell you that this center is being maintained by the humanitarian action system, then I've told you everything. It comes to the fact that windows fail, that children break down because access ramps are quite slippery, etc. Also, the education system is quite archaic, we have a type of shoemaker for which there is no longer a need on the labour market, so automatically already with the education system, we exclude people with disabilities from the labour market. I would also stress the accessibility of the regular education system. We in Croatia when we look at high school institutions, but actually when we look at primary education institutions first, we will see how accessible the schools in the Republic of Croatia are. Therefore, people who are mentally healthy have only physical impairment or if we take the combined damage of people with disabilities. So, easy mental retardation and physical damage to those children we have to send to specialised institutions because there are three steps in the entrance because there is no access ramp, because there is no elevator in the school, because the toilet door is 90 centimeters narrow. So, for bizarre reasons, we exclude our children from society at all and put them in the social category. I think that sublaws would solve a lot of things and put a lot of things into operation and, of course, they should not be passed any special or special laws but simply adapt the existing system. I'd say something else, I'm a little lost in my papers because I think the law is good and I'm sorry that this is a good law, but it's really good that it can go down precisely because of these bizarre situations that because of inadequate transportation or some similar situations, the law won't be able to function in practice. So again, it will rule out the most difficult categories of people with disabilities. Because then there will be another violation of fundamental human rights and freedom. Already in the world, the social approach model for disabled people has long been abandoned, and it is now based on human rights and fundamental freedoms. And in the end, we are not people with special needs, but we are with the same needs. So, it's the same need of me or any of you to get to your place of work or I don't know how to go to school. So we all have the same need but the way we realize it is a little different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32673	Thank you very much, colleague. The following was reported for the debate, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32674	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues! By passing this law which is under consideration and which defines professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities certainly has its own good side but I would also like to say that what is needed is a professional rehabilitation, for which institutions with special employment needs are needed and that disabled people can be classified and employed in all other companies, state institutions, a small economy. It should therefore be said that the needs of persons with disabilities are certainly different and that their employment opportunities are different. Therefore, the care started to be taken in practice to make the accessibility of all state institutions and services as best as possible from the approach of those to the wheelchairs and to the elevators in the buildings where the rooms on the floors are doing a little bit, going better and more but also the sensitivity of the entire Croatian society must be with those persons, then there will be more people with disabilities in Croatia. In fact, the progress of IT and technology certainly has a number of places where people with disabilities can work with professional training and retraining to do jobs from their wheelchairs, from their homes, they can use the Internet, e-mail, to work for employers who are not bound to be in the institutions and I hope that these measures provided by law, which is that all ministries that are different today will certainly find moments and opportunities, and also what is called a tax relief that will certainly support employers in hiring people with disabilities who will find opportunities and moments and the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund will ensure by paying contributions to fostering the employment of persons with disabilities who will apply legal norms and are required to account for all employers who employ more than 20 million employees per year. Those funds will certainly be welcome to this fund and will certainly have great effects. So I personally support the adoption of this law. I also support all the elements introduced in it and the tendency must be put on the application of all these legal norms, respecting what is passed in the law because it was also seen in 2003 that the number of persons with disabilities has dropped, and therefore a strategy has been adopted, a national strategy for the employment of persons with disabilities, but its application has also been difficult and we must all agree together to employ as many persons with disabilities as possible and to respect these legal norms in each particular. Here's another time, I support this law and I want these specifics put in it from financial to all others certainly to be used in the care and employment and professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32675	Thank you very much, colleague. The following is registered representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32676	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! So, given this material, it is obvious in this legislative proposal that in the Republic of Croatia there is a very high percentage of the total population with a certain degree of disability. So we can see here from this contribution that they're about 10% on us 10% is actually a person with disabilities. Also, I am not such a great pessimist given the current situation, given the overall state of the labour market in Croatia. So we can see here that one high percentage of these persons is still employed, which means that Croatian society still has high sensitivity, high feelings for these population groups. Also, it cannot be denied that 7.5 thousand unemployed people are not a huge number, but I am saying that it is probably a reason, it is also a real market situation and the additional disability of these people, given that they are very often those without the working experience of that person or with little working experience, then with unquality education and are not as such prepared for work. However, further insight into this material is obvious that the competent ministry, or government, has done everything to operationalise the existing law, in order to actually make all assumptions that the largest number of these people in a recent period of time, or in the continuity of employment, and that this problem is solved by persons with disabilities. It is also visible that an effort has actually been made to include all the structures of society so that the approach is actually multidisciplinary of this problem which is an additional guarantee of success. The great hope and chance of success is also the formation of this Fund for Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, which together with the budget funds will amount to about 100 million kuna and it certainly is not enough, but not a small sum and these are the means that will indeed be this time, these changes operational and included in the best sense of the word. I would now return to the beginning of this debate and in a certain way recall. Two weeks ago, we had a debate, a bill that wanted to improve the issue of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. I'm surprised that out of so many burning human rights defenders in this debate today, there are not half of them, nor are there any hard feelings which, in this case, give recognition to the government because I think this is one of the most effective ways in which the government participates and with the aim of fulfilling human rights because this is one of the laws to be observed in that light. So the adoption of such a legislative proposal is, in fact, the government's best intention of achieving and fulfilling the protection of the human rights of the Croatian population. A very competent person spoke before me, a colleague of Škulić, Dr. Lucia Chikesh. I believe that their presentations were very good and I believe that in a certain way I am encouraged by their exposure, I believe that in fact this one legislative proposal from us, from Croatian representatives, is also asking the Croatian public for a change of attitude against this problem. He's looking for a new paradigm. So a predetermined attitude towards a certain thing. The same change this society already makes toward mental patients, for example. You are witnessing that in fact a new theory of the treatment of such patients is actually treatment in the community, rather than behind some concrete walls, such and such hospitals no matter how they give them names. This society also changes the attitude towards homosexuals and against other marginalised groups. I believe that, in fact, the change of attitude towards this issue, towards people with disabilities is as important and as crucial as their employment. I'd say they don't need privilege in employment, they need equal access to the workplace. And only in the end would I refer to this Professional Rehabilitation Fund, which will allocate funds with the aim of hiring people with disabilities. It says here that in fact all businesses will allocate one percent of the funds in that fund with the aim of achieving the operationality of this bill. I'd actually set up a thing like this. What makes a company single out a part of the funds if it respects this law? Let's say that if a company that has 20 employees has 5 people, then 5 people with disabilities, why not encourage it among other things by releasing it because of the allocation of those funds. For example, this would be one symbolic incentive for people to employ disabled people and to make a certain contribution to their employment. Finally, my full support for this bill and I hope that, in fact, of all of us here, this support will be unique and that this law will result in the best intention that the Government has, which is integration, rehabilitation and better employment of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32677	Thank you, buddy. Now it's President Carmela Caparin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32678	... /The speaker was subsequently turned on./... Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back briefly because, if the predecessors had already said a lot, but absolutely I would have supported this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities which I would have, I would have reminded them of the particulars of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that the state gives special care and devotes to protecting disabled persons, their inclusion in social life. Of course, there is also the Law on Croatian Registers of Persons with Disabilities and the one we are talking about today. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 to create a presumption of full membership in the European Union. The national strategy shall contain an assessment of the situation, contain action programmes for the area of relevance for disabled persons and proposals for measures to systematically improve the quality of life of disabled persons. It should be noted that the National Strategy prescribed the obligations of the authorities of the state administration and the deadlines of their implementation and therefore it is very worrying that if we adopted the Law in 2002 that they had failed to adopt implementing acts implementing the provisions of this Act. Today we really need to talk about one multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary approach, the access of all ministries, and also access experts of various profiles to address this problem. Today, the biggest problem of the unemployment of disabled persons is the inadequate professional training of disabled people required to enter the process of work. During the year, only 10 to 12% of people with disabilities are employed unfortunately. Invalids are entitled to employment under certain general conditions on the so-called so-called ‘. the open labour market and, in the case of general market employment, this relates to the obligation of the authorities and state administrations, the authorities of the judicial authorities, units of local self-government, bodies of other public services and various funds and other legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is known that it must be employed by 31.12.2003. at least one, in 2004, forgive, at least one person with disabilities to all 49 employees. By 31.12.2008 at least one disabled person on 32 employees. And that in 2020 they should employ at least one disabled person on 16 employees. I hope that there will be employment of disabled people, that their professional rehabilitation will also come from this law that we are talking about today. In this debate, I would like to thank the Government for helping solve the problem in Sirač where 80 people are really employed, where with one more than 50% of people with disabilities, but these people in Sirač do not want to get paid rather than work. And that's why I'm calling from this booth to help and to ensure, however, that no matter what the fires, all the unhappiness of production in Sirač. Finally, it would refer briefly to the work of the Health and Social Policy Committee where there was indeed a common consensus on the adoption of this law. And that's what dear friends talk about about one really social sensitivity of our society, so when we talk about democracy, about democratisation of society, that's one part of it. And that's why I'm investing and I'm very hopeful in the realisation of this law. Of course, the implementation of each law requires resources, and this law shows that these funds are secured and that there should be no problem in their arrival. And what I'm going to look at briefly is this national strategy, we're talking about implementing a national strategy and fighting addiction, etc., we have a series of national strategies, so I believe given the importance of this problem of disabled people that we're going to discuss this national strategy of people with disabilities, the implementation of that national strategy where we came from and what we've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32679	Thank you very much. The next debate was registered representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32680	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities with the Final Proposal of the Law as well as most of the MPs who discussed this bill. According to the 2001 census of the population of the Republic of Croatia, 9.7 of the total population of the Republic of Croatia are persons with disabilities, of which 11.5% are men and 8% women. In addition, around 2.5% and 7 and a half thousand people with disabilities were recorded in the Croatian Employment Service records and 7.4% of people with disabilities in employment are constantly employed while others receive assistance in the welfare system. Rehabilitation and employment is one of the important ways of fighting for the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in the community and promoting their independent life and dignity. In particular, there are important articles 7 and 13 that talk about the employment of persons with disabilities under general and special conditions, and self-employment, establishment of crafts, the activities of the free profession, the activities of agriculture, forestry and the like. In addition, strong support from the state, ministries and local self-government, tax relief, favourable credit and grants, advisory services and the like is also needed. We also invest three amendments to Articles 10, 13 and 27 in order to implement the proposed law more effectively. For example, in Article 10 of the Treaty on European The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance provides for the division of employment contributions for large employers, as follows from the basis of the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is why we propose that all employers, other than employers referred to in Article 10(2) of the proposed Law, be required to pay a special contribution to encourage employment of persons with disabilities. In addition, Article 13 of the final draft law left out the possibility of the start of economic activities of persons with disabilities through a cooperative which is headed by a joint business and mutual assistance of cooperatives in accordance with the provisions of the Cooperative Act. We therefore propose to add "or cooperative" in Article 13(1) of point 1. And also the amendment to Article 27. In Article 33 paragraph 5 of the Law, we propose that this should also be changed and said about the revenues of the fund, the financing or co-financing of programmes and projects to promote employment and the maintenance of the employment of people with disabilities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities does not provide for the possibility to finance and co-finance programmes and projects that promote the rights of persons with disabilities established by law through the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, so we propose an amendment that would ensure new forms of funding, those forms of funding. I would also end up saying that, with the social sensitivity of the Croatian Government, including the Croatian Parliament in this part, because I believe that this law will be passed by consensus, that amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will be accepted, but also that effective support is also needed for their families and organisations at all levels in order to participate in dialogue, enter into decision-making structures and be equally legally included in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32681	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, the final Mr. Pero Kovacevic, 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32682	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The HSP Club must again warn about the amendment and addition of this law that these changes also point to how the rule of law works and how the rules are implemented in Croatia. In fact, we have one in Croatia that belongs at the level of the declarator, and the other is at the level of implementation. We all agree here on this point that a significant shift should be made, but it's unfortunate that the state administration is not doing it. The Croatian Parliament adopts laws, they are declaratively phenomenal, but the state administration and the relevant ones do not go from word to action. In fact, the very fact that a valid law was passed in 2002 means that we are now in 2005, and that neither the former government nor this authority has passed the regulations that are important for the implementation of this law, it says that both the former and the declarative authority treated the disabled with a declaration. Because she's the one who stalled the law. The law was passed in 2002, a phenomenal law, but unfortunately it could not be implemented, nor is today implemented. And that is the biggest problem in this Croatian country when it comes to any area. And imagine, no one's responsible for that. No one's responsible for that. When it comes to the adoption of sublegal regulations, we must be aware of most of the new laws such as this one is not enforceable because what needs to be solved in order for the law to be implemented and implemented in practice. And then these deadlines for the adoption of sublegal regulations are instructive, and eventually ministers, neither the former government nor this government was accountable. And now we come to mean in 2005, in 2005 and among the main reasons for the amendments to this law are the fact that the law was inconclusive that no sublegal regulations were passed and that in 22.12.2003, a new Law on the establishment of ministries and state administrative organisations was amended. And what's he saying? This speaks of the need for people with disabilities to be told next, we must give them a guarantee, we must guarantee that the laws that this Croatian Parliament brings will also be enforceable. This is also a lot of nice words, but this gives no guarantee that this law will also be enforceable. And now if we look at the amendments and the additions to this law. It was supposed to be that article on the 10th, last year they had an obligation, so, hiring a disabled person, a legal person. The deadline was 31.12.2004. We're now extending those deadlines from 31.12.2005. It's true, some of them are shrinking. What is the situation in the conduct of the state administration and everything else, I won't be surprised if we move those deadlines again at the end of 2005 or 2006. Therefore, dear gentlemen, the State Administration and the Government, move from word to deed and do not say that you work very hard in this area, and in the end, for the reason that the implementing rules have not been adopted first and that before, I say, the year and some change in the structure of the state administration, that you do not come to us again. Therefore, we give support to the Law, but we do not support such non - conduct in the implementation of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32683	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32684	Mr. Vice President, I'm not going to use those five minutes on behalf of the club, but just to correct the quote of a colleague who is truly incorrect. If neither the former government nor this government, he will say, has actually not kept too much to the realization and realization of this Law. It's not simple to say correctly. If after 10 years one such law is passed, if the Fund is formed and no more can be done because the losing elections are not fair, then it is not fair to put what was not done in the last year, and what was done then could be done. It's not fair to say the responsibility of both the government and the government that failed to do what they had to do last year. There was no way to make sublaws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32685	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, since this morning, although not in the presence of a number of MPs, we've been discussing a very sensitive issue. It's a question of people with disabilities. Of course, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party we look forward to a debate that shows that we all support the amendments and additions of the Law, because in this way we are actually sending a message to Croatian society how socially sensitive we are and how human we are. And it was really pleasant to listen, therefore, to this political commitment to advocate the entry of people with disabilities into the world of work, but there remains one indiscretion. There is also a certain practice in our society, because it seems to me that we are in Croatia, perhaps the only country in Europe that is abundant in laws that are not implemented in practice. So here, and in this case, so, for example, this Professional Rehabilitation Act, we actually have a great try. One government attempt in 2002, the Law that entered into force on December 12, 2002, has actually been a dead letter on paper for 2 years. For us are these changes and additions that we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club support, but in fact they are only prolonging further prolonging the time of implementation of the Law into practice. And actually concrete measures to improve the status of people with disabilities. Furthermore, when this Law is implemented and implemented, I would send, here is a message that we should not expect some messianic effect from the Law because we must be aware that there are 300,000 people on the labour market today who are able to work. And when we pass it on to the market economy, when we transfer that information to today's employer who is very interested in having a person who gives probability in his opinion, of course, this and more regular, etc. So we need to further look for mechanisms that will encourage these employers to employ people with disabilities. It may seem pacifying to someone, but I left the information that I pointed out in this morning's debate, which is the fact that in the 1980s we had 39 companies that employed people with disabilities. 39. Today there are 5 of them, of which 3 are in bankruptcy or bankruptcy and 2 actually work only thanks to the support of local self-government. It might be good to think exactly that way because introducing contributions is certainly a safe source of funding. Let's try to think in such a way that we have capital companies that will primarily employ people with disabilities, and of course those capital companies must be with special support and care and state and unit local self-government. Then we'll actually prove how human society we are, then we'll actually prove how socially sensitive we are, and then we'll be able to say, here's a national strategy that was adopted in 2003, and the Rehabilitation and Employment Act gives effect and we haven't wasted any time in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32687	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, sir. Of course I support the adoption of this Act, and I would just look back on the previous lady, to her one observation, which compared that in the '80s there were 35, if I wasn't wrong or 39 institutions that were employed, and now there are only 5. I don't think it's backwards. I think it's advanced. We can't create 39 and God forbid these five don't fit next year or up to 2 years, but in one reasonable period. I don't agree with what Mr. HSP said, he says, "Let's move on to action." I don't know, sir, how many times you've come to realize something here and how many times you've gone to a particular company and you've done it. So it's here to make laws, and it's another thing to stimulate people to do it. Neither will you, nor will I. I'm doing it on this one, so I'm doing it, but you or anyone else who doesn't have a narrow area of action sure as hell won't do it, but you know who's doing it. Neither does Mrs. Secretary, nor does Mr. Minister, nor do you, as Parliament's attorney. I'm still in favour, which is more about decentralisation of this system, and I'm still committed to making it possible to engage as much as possible, to enable the socialization of people with disabilities, whether it's just about the disabled, but let's not forget the disabled who have mental problems. And they need social, and they need to be enabled to work, a work that says nicely here, even in the United Nations Declaration of 83, that disabled people have the right to help train as much independence as possible. And it is said that disabled people also have the right to economic and social security and a proper standard of living, the right to work according to their abilities. And that's what we all have to stick to, that is, regulation is legal, it just needs to be checked on the ground whether it is then implemented and whether all the companies and all the institutions that need to work are operating in accordance with the law. Once again, I would like to point out, thank you for the government's efforts to, that we are definitely going into realisation and I hope that all those who need to stick to this will follow. Neither should Mr Kovacevic here nor I, because there is anyone who will abide by this, who he refers to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32689	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32690	First, it is an incorrect assumption that we do not have to worry about the fact that the Law is not being implemented. Mrs. Lucia, read why the law is passed by emergency procedure and then it is said that the law is not applied at all. Therefore, take page three and we HSP representatives are the voice of the public in the Croatian Parliament and we will always point to what you do not do. And the fact that you're saying that you're amnesting the government and the ministers not to do so is embarrassing. They should do it, that's why the government exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32691	Please, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32692	He hasn't corrected my quote and I can't agree that he's a voice to the public and we're all not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32693	Please, as soon as we are elected to the Croatian Parliament, we have some basis to speak for someone, in the name of those who chose us. So we're all less here, depending on how much anyone stands for it. So let's not divide by that, we're equalized as MPs. Thank you very much. Is the government's representative final? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32694	Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 246. The debate is closed. And we have amendments submitted by MPs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship, Mrs Vera Babic. Amendment number one of Dragutin Lesar's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32695	Mr. President, the Government does not accept this amendment, namely the proposed amendment was intended to regulate the exercise of the right to professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities who are educated in the regular system of education for the first profession and, in our opinion, it is contained in the provisions of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law, the approach to professional rehabilitation, is based on social care rules, is decided in the first degree by the competent social care centre and by the second ministry responsible for social care affairs. In the same way, the rights of persons with disabilities older than 21 years have been governed, and students who are educated in the regular education system are entitled to professional rehabilitation by the basic and secondary school rules which are also contained in the provision of Article 3(1) of the Law, in conjunction with Article 4. In addition, the proposed amendment would create a conflict in relation to the Social Care Act in relation to the competences of the bodies which decide in the first and second stages.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32696	Councilman Dragutin Lesar please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32697	My amendment did not refer to the right to professional rehabilitation but to professional training of disabled persons, children covered by a regular education system. By refusing this amendment, you have not rejected me but 100 young people who are disabled, educated in the regular system of education, you do not recognise their right to professional training. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32698	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. Score. I find that the amendment was voted by 36.6 abstentions and 66 against, it did not go through. 2. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32699	This amendment is also not accepted by the government, namely Article 6 has been deleted from the provision of Article 8 of the Basic Law, which sets out the activities in which persons with disabilities, which could contribute to their professional rehabilitation and employment, and which is already contained in the general working legal regulations. Since the aim of this Law is to equate and provide equal opportunities to people with disabilities and to all others, so I do not see a valid reason for the regulation of what is already contained in general labour regulations here in a special way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32700	Silvano Hrelja, Club of HSU, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32701	Dear Secretary of State, it was not our intention to challenge the legal interpretation of the applicant, we do not want to do so now, so we are withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32702	Thank you, Amendment 2 withdrawn. 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32703	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32704	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 4. HDZ Representatives Club
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32705	This is the same Mr. President-in-Office of the amendment to the previous, and since the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives has been accepted
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32706	So it's already been consummated with the previous amendment. 5 of the same club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32707	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32708	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 6 Legislative Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32709	The government also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32710	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7 club representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32711	He accepts the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32712	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. 8 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32713	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32714	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32715	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32716	It becomes an integral part of the law. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32717	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32718	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32719	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32720	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 92 votes for, 6 abstentions and 8 against the law on the amendment and addition of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32721	We move to - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Prize for the promotion of the right of the child, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 245 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32722	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Madam MPs and MPs! This is about amendments to laws that are primarily technical. The Law on the Prize for Promoting the Rights of the Child was passed in May 2003. In the meantime, the basis of the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of Ministrys and State Administrations has led to a change in the scope and responsibilities of individual ministries, and for this reason it is necessary to amend this law in the sense that certain powers that have been so far at the Ministry of Health and Social Care are transferred to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Therefore, I ask all MPs to amend this proposal and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32723	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32724	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! This seems to me if I counted well the fourth or fifth law that comes from the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity in which there is no fundamental change. So we have four or five times the change in which things are delayed, so in 2004 they change in 2006 or 2007, and we have a change in which one ministry in its jurisdiction is replaced by another ministry. Indeed, after a little over a year, as I think at least my representatives from the SDP Club expect a serious law to finally come out of this ministry to help solve the problems of the Croatian family at least when it comes to this normative level in a much better way than it has been solved. I would just like to say that what was a change, for example, of a law of eight months ago, was a delay in the formation of family courts, something that was to be done by the Constitutional Court, should have been implemented, but in the family ministry which is indeed in the family sphere I say several times virtual ministry because you can't say that the ministry cares about family when family care is divided into two ministries. This is something that we have warned that this must not be done because you can neither talk about the protection of children's rights nor family when you have only one part of the Ministry of the Family and the other part of the Centre for Social Care and the whole system of social care that decides on the good part of the protection of rights and children and families and you have in a whole other ministry. Therefore, this is not how family politics can be conducted, and it is here in just over a year and shows, therefore, that when it comes to family and the position of children, nothing really moved but public painting with other people's projects. I would also like to say that, for example, in this ministry so far, we have not seen a single solution that would solve the problem of alimony payments and basic rights of the child in Croatia, which is that it has the right to care and care by both parents regardless of whether or not they live with it. So today we have five times in front of us from Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's portfolio a law that changes only the competences of the ministries, so no systematic solution to the problems that today's Croatian families have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32725	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Danira Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Croatian Democratic Community's club certainly sees the award for promoting the rights of the child as one of the ways of popularising and promoting the area of child protection as well as the means by which the wider public can be effectively sensitised for children's issues and problems in Croatia. I believe that today everyone in the Croatian Parliament can agree that children and young people are of key strategic interest both to us safely and to any modern nation and state that wants to provide assumptions for a better and better quality life. The Croatian state and government are doing much to promote and protect the rights of children and families. With a few years ago, the institution of the state's attorney for children and constant work to prevent and combat child labour, child prostitution and child pornography certainly highlight the reform of social and family legislation where the government has done much in the past few months. I stress the creation of a system of family benefits aimed at improving the material position of children or families with children, which includes systems such as child's allowance or maternity benefits. According to the United Nations, Croatia ranks in the 30 highly developed countries of the world as indicators of child mortality up to 5 years of age and the percentage of children involved in primary school education is extremely high. Many other data place Croatia in order of developed countries and democracy when it comes to children's rights. However, despite meeting the world's general standards and the existence of quality and modern legal solutions without one significant commitment of the whole society, the state as a central institution to the permanent protection and promotion of the interests of each individual child will not be able to protect children to a sufficient extent. Besides, when it comes to children's attention, love, and smart strategic determinations, it can never be enough. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which is currently in force, was adopted in June 2003 when the Ministry of Labour and Social Care was a resolute Ministry of Monitoring and Application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. With the election of the new Government, the structure of the ministry has been changed and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has become a resolute ministry for questioning and monitoring the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this regard, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child considers the technical law, or law, which overlooks the only obstacle that stands in the way of the award for the promotion of the rights of the child. And this is a question of the change of the resolution ministry responsible for the adoption of the rules laying down a more detailed way of calling for tenders, the procedure for proposing candidates, the award criteria and the description of the Charter Medal. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity will also carry out professional and administrative tasks related to the work of the committee and the award process. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Prize for the promotion of child's rights under urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32727	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, on behalf of the HSP Club, Ms. Representative Ruza Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32728	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club supports the proposal but because we support everything that would in any way protect the rights of the child. But we are interested in the criteria by which these awards will be shared. We are interested in whether the awards will be shared by parents if parents report to each other for abuse whether the reward will be shared to a teacher who reports other teachers or other students, whether the reward will be shared to neighbors who report abuse in the neighborhood because I think all these people, that they should not receive awards because it is their duty to report, that they report it. Because we all know from daily newspapers that we read every day that child abuse is not done to abusers anything or almost nothing, is not sanctioned. Laws if we were to enforce existing laws that exist, because there are so many laws in child protection that we should not give any rewards at all because I think those people who protect the rights of the child that they should protect it from themselves, but whatever it is that will help anything we're up to. I'm just curious, when we're already defending children's rights, how many of us at the HSP Club have pointed out children, students, actually students who come from the island to schools where they don't get a hot meal, where they can't get one. So students who study in Split, for example, who come from the island, who study in, they get the right to a warm meal, who are not in the November home, get the right to a warm meal and students who are, who are not in student homes and who live in private they can't get a warm meal. If it's the same kind of abuse, I'd love to, we're offering an HSP award to whoever solves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32729	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32730	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the IDS certainly supports all proposals that come in promoting human rights and thus promoting children's human rights. But I'm afraid this is just one of a series of technical solutions that will make it a question of whether or not what this Law is about to achieve, and why this Law was passed. So far, there has been a lot of talk in this assembly about children, talk about maternity benefits, maternity leave, health care, alimony fund. Of course, all of this according to the Government's most intelligent policy, i.e. that in the Republic of Croatia there is a need for designing demographic restoration and we in the IDS and I think that the protection of children's rights should be designed. The fall of birth in the Republic of Croatia is not just about problems with the level of maternity benefits or length of maternity leave and it is hard to believe that parents would choose to have children for these reasons. We are aware that the decision on how much someone will have children, of course, is not dependent on maternity benefits or leave, but depends on how children are going to enroll in mangers, kindergartens, how these children are going to be educated. If you really think about dealing systematically and systematically with the problems of demographic renewal and promotion of children's human rights, then you will really have to do this, or you need to take serious access to this problem because so far, the measures that have been taken, and I think, primarily, at the mentioned maternity benefits and leave, have just opened up the subject of demographic renewal. And besides the initial measures, demographic renewals need to continue to take care of children, and that's where I mean, primarily, tax policy. A secure material and secure legal environment should be created for both children and their parents. A series of research has been made, and it has shown how many problems there are in families. There are more and more who have fewer children, drastically increasing share of single households and families, growing share of single mothers and single mothers with children, all this information that is alarming shows two things that economic factors contribute to the disintegration of the traditional family, the disorder between family members and the fall of birth. And secondly, since the situation is difficult and when both parents are raising children, we can imagine that a parent who is alone has only one income or maybe not even one. It is also known that parents and children live only on a child’s allowance. When parents face such problems in the structure of a state that is expected to help them do almost nothing to help such families. That's where I primarily think about welfare centres, the judiciary and the ministry. We are aware that social care centres that are expected not to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia at such difficult times as parents and children because they do not primarily respect the deadlines set for them. We are already aware that parental care is determined by the laws of the Republic of Croatia, but what it is worth when in most cases it is all a dead letter on paper. The family's problems are different. I'll look back maybe just on family issues, family that's been going on lately. We often have the opportunity to see a rise in domestic violence, and we see that social care centres do not fulfill their function in this regard. And we haven't had a chance to see that anyone from the Social Services Center has been responsible for the failures that have been made so far. We can see that they treat children like they're papers, not living things. Neither the political structures in the Republic of Croatia contribute to promoting children's rights, especially the last days where we follow the debate through the media on abortions, artificial fertilisation, on trade in egg cells. In a way, the debate is being conducted in a way that brings us back to a time when human rights were no matter what kind of children's, women's, national were violated, and the highlight of everything is the debate is whether the child is a thing or a gift? The only positive thing I'm seeing is a child's attorney's office whose fundamental role is to get to know and advise children on how to achieve and protect their rights and interests. Cooperation with children and encouraging children to declare and respect their opinions. That is why it is particularly important in the future for children’s rights as fundamental human rights to get closer to their children and to listen to them about what they say about their rights themselves. They will best show us what is most important to them. What rights do they recognize, what rights are respected, what rights are respected, which are violated? Now, after a little over a year as the Child's Attorney General was founded, we also got a picture in the Republic of Croatia of how we stand with the rights of the child. We had a report on the attorney general's work, the truth in only three months. From the 9th to the 12th of 2003, the report already showed what the situation was, and the situation was pretty bad and we witnessed that the situation was even worse in 2004. Well, let me finish. These amendments to the Reward Act only solve technical problems. About a few articles meant that one ministry had been tasked before now. There is a lot of talk about rights, about children's rights most and I think that, that we should not stick to the principles of declaration and that we should really do everything to ensure that children's rights in the Republic of Croatia are fully protected. We need to educate our children so she respects human rights tomorrow. So the IDS supports this proposal, but we also warn that all structures should implement the law and promote children's rights so as not to remain a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32731	Thank you very much, colleague. The following was reported for discussion by counterpart Bozidar Pankretic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32732	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not disputed that the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports these amendments to the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, but I will try to point out, as colleagues and colleagues before me pointed out, I would say important things along with this proposal and the matter itself. The current Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child entered into force on 18.6.2003. Article 6 provides that the award shall be awarded by the Committee for the Prize and the promotion of the rights of the child. The Committee shall consist of 5 members. It is founded by the Croatian Parliament for two years. It is prescribed that members of the Committee shall be appointed from the ranks of well-known public workers dealing with issues related to the rights of the child on the proposal of the Croatian Parliament's parent approval. It is prescribed that the minister responsible for social care affairs shall adopt a regulation which shall regulate in more detail the way in which tenders are called, the procedure for proposing candidates, the criteria for awarding and the description of medals. Of course I agree with my colleague, Rose, that it would be good to see that the public when these rules will be passed and they will be familiar with the details and how these rules will still edit that matter. The funds should also be provided in Article 9 of the Budget of the Republic of Croatia, which I sincerely believe are secured. Article 11 states that the minister is responsible for social care matters should be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act. Unfortunately, we have to realize that the deadline expired in late 2003. Since the change of power occurred in early 2004, no implementing rules were adopted. It is justified now to question that this Law did not actually come into life and that there are objective, but certainly subjective reasons because this Law means waiting for already implementing regulations for almost 13 months. I think the Croatian Parliament must propose this on behalf of the home working body and set up a Committee on the Prize and Promotion of the Rights of the Child. As I have said, the final proposal to amend this law will certainly be supported because the Law on the formation and detachment of the Ministry and state-run administrative organisations, the implementation of this Law is now the responsibility of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. We believe that this new deadline will now be met quickly and that we will receive urgent implementing regulations that will enable the very meaning of this Law to be passed. The concept and idea of child rights is a new legal institution which recognises their children equal and inalienable rights and is based on a complementary relationship between the rights of children and the responsibilities of adults. Principles of equality, prohibitions of discrimination, conduct in the best interests of the child and respect for the child's opinion confirmed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every child should be assured of decent childhood and adulthood but in practice, unfortunately, this is not always feasible because of the flexibility of concepts and the possibility to interpret the concepts differently unfortunately. In order to ensure the implementation of these principles, two action plans and two Declarations on children's rights which constitute international standards for the protection of child's rights have been adopted. The Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia are adapted to the contemporary concept of children as independent legal entities, make up Croatian standards, and the National Programme and its supplement are for concrete action. The main problem with all these documents is the inability to carry out consistent commitments due to global exchanges of child-related problems and the lack of adequate mechanisms to systematically sanction child rights violations. You don't need to specify here specifically. We're almost every day here I'd say, witnesses to child rights violations, you wouldn't mention all those ugly events from the recent past that happened that here confirm unfortunately this topic. Declarative political will exists, but its implementation is often made difficult by legal procedures or other social circumstances. The setting of immeasurable targets set only qualitatively but not quantitatively also presents difficulties in achieving the plans. Determination of specific time-limited tasks, setting priorities in activities and, above all, a critical attitude towards possible solutions or at least a way to address these problems. Each effect for children is primarily a change of attitude towards children and a change in the perception of children in society. Because if we recognise equality and equality at the value level of children, this attitude should automatically withdraw concrete social changes. A change in the mentality of a society that is obviously necessary for us to begin at the earliest age to which all adults should contribute because children reflect them. When it comes to the dignity of children, it is not only about who did what to the children and who missed out on the welfare of the children. Let me perhaps say a few sentences here since so far in the debate it has not been mentioned and I would particularly like to accept this part of the media relationship. I think it's particularly important here to mention the relationship of the media to the well-being of children, the relationship of the media, which, unfortunately, sometimes not me, I would say, at the height we all expect. Here I'm going to use it to read a comment from Mr. Stephen Face on the Catholic Radio. The modestly almost improbable news has been released in our media these days that the United Nations Children's Rights Committee at the end of October last year voiced concern over the violation of the rights of children's privacy in Croatian media. The news was not published in late October or early November of last year, just after the United Nations Children's Rights Committee expressed its concern but only now after 3 months after the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia issued a guide on the criminal protection of children and minors, who, among other things, also referred to the Croatian Journalist Society. The United Nations Children's Rights Committee recommended that Croatian authorities take the necessary measures to ensure that the media fully respects the right of children's privacy. Croatia is required to provide detailed information in the following report on the respect for children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in particular on the protection of privacy in families, social institutions, schools and detention places. Neither the media nor the Croatian Journalist Society recognized their responsibility nor their obligation of course before or shortly after that, the Committee for the Rights of the Child expressed its concern. They were closer to continuing their competition in the fight for greater reading, obedience, or ratings. The welfare of children does not seem particularly important to them, even when they justifiably called out those who have hurt their children in different ways. Because at the same time, the same children as the rest have damaged content that they have not taken up in any way for their dignity or for promoting their dignity. The more often it happens that those who truly take up dignity for children are called out for conservatism or portraying themselves as a cartoon. It is interesting that, referring to the report of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee, the President of the Honor Council of the Croatian Journalist Society warned of certain articles of the Croatian Journalists' Code of Honor. To protect children and minors from inaccessible media swearing in their privacy and privacy. Not by mentioning the fact that the Croatian Journalist Society, or its Council of Honor, has done so in the period since the adoption of the Code of Honor, or since the publication of the Report of the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations. At the same time, the prosecutor for children said that she should soon enter the press code to seek the protection of children in the media. This discrepancies in the statements raises the question of how and how many responsible services work in us and cooperate with each other. Of course this quote is for all of us to think about. I purposely read it completely. I think it's good to think sometimes. When some news happens and the media has to publish it in a certain way, I think special care for children is the special protection of our children. And I think we should all take special care of that. It is of great importance that this law be brought to life in order to achieve the possibility of awarding a child’s rights promotion. In this way, the public would show exceptional achievements in protecting the welfare, rights and interests of children. This would again help parents and all adults, their social community and the media to see all possible importance and responsibility in dealing with children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32733	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSLS Club, LS and DC representative Ivan Chehok, please elect a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32734	Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Paraphrasing a well-known psychologist and philosopher Ericsson who once said that he taught more than a man by looking at children. It's from all the books. We could say that we could learn more about the state of human rights in a society by following how children’s rights or children’s rights are exercised. It's from all the high-school and declarative debates we're having. And the fact that last week we discussed several reports that directly refer to children and minors and young people. First of all, a report on drug abuse. That we've been discussing these reports that are three years old tells us about how much we and all of this society actually care about the rights of the child. If we really wanted to protect the rights of the child that we wanted children, youth, minors who are the most vulnerable and risky group in this abuse, that we really cared about protecting ourselves then we wouldn't discuss the 2002 reports. Rather, how we closely follow what is happening in this area, and we could react more quickly, at least try to prevent future or possible abuse. Likewise, what we are talking about today is the fact that we do not have sub-legal acts and that we have failed to implement it, so we can say one declaratory again, which will not actually help much in promoting the rights of the child, but may only reward or highlight those who are most often enthusiastically engaged in promoting the rights of the child in the Republic of Croatia. So the fact that we are discussing this here is said colleague Pankretic a year and a half after that we should have taken the appropriate acts in favour of how much we care about the rights of the child. I mean, the most illustrious testimony is that we care a little bit. If we took the other documents we brought in, I'd remind myself that we even brought in the last term and strategy, or certain strategic documents again, of course declarative, about the rights of the child and protecting the rights of the child. So if we were to follow what has been achieved in the meantime, so from these vastly sublime verbally proclaimed goals, we would see that nothing has been achieved. And that we've actually calmed our conscience in some way by the fact that we've brought the declarations. But those declarations when they meet reality fall into the water. And that very few children in the Republic of Croatia benefit from our high-ranking verbally declared views here. If so, it is best, the most visible testimony of the statistics of the lady and gentlemen last year is the number of crimes or the number of crimes committed to the harm of minors in criminal proceedings and increased by 26% or slightly less. So, 26% over the last year, we had more work to do with the harm of minors. So that's the best piece of information that the most obvious testimony is that they're actually children's rights, the rights that we've declared here, but which we haven't even been able to promote, we've even less managed to protect them. I do not want to reduce the contribution, however, I would like to point out exactly the contribution of those persons in the Republic of Croatia, those of our citizens either professionally, but I repeat again, most of the time enthusiastically deals with promoting the rights of the child, especially those engaged in some kind of help, psychosocial assistance to children who have been victims of domestic violence, whether violence at school, or violence in society. So I have to say here and as HSLS, we are extremely dissatisfied with the government's position and the resolution ministry that we have failed to pass the Alimentary Fund Act, because we all know that these children, therefore children to whom parents do not pay child support, are not only protected by rights, but we have not actually realised that they have the right to a decent life in the Republic of Croatia at all. So when the ministry delivers this proposal today, then I must as president of the club and as president of the HSLS ask, what about the Alimentation Fund. Which is why we've even determined the funds, even though the initial funds in the budget, and those funds are gone. We do not have the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity in order to verbally proclaim our great support for the Croatian family, but we have precisely to help Croatian children, Croatian families, mostly mothers, mostly single mothers again, or mothers who are equally victims of violence. But I also want to tell the fathers who are also, more and more of them are therefore in the overall structure of single parents. So if we're talking about children's rights, then I think the Secretary of State has to inform us about what's going on with the Alimentary Fund Act, because we as a social-liberal party are going to insist on it consistently. Unfortunately, I would say from that general document that we have brought, so the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, we have not reached certain procedural and sublegal operational acts, and the worst thing is that unfortunately we have failed to create a network, a coordinated network of all state institutions that would be involved in promoting child rights. The democracy of a society today is not measured by how many political parties there are, the democracy of a society today is not measured by how many parliamentary representatives there are, the democracy of a society today is not measured by the topics that we have here, how much of a commission on conflict of interest, the democracy of a society is not even measured by the way we have presidents or Prime Ministers and what they say and what rhetoric is, whether it is more or less democratic. The democracy of one society of colleagues and colleagues is measured by how much we promote children's rights. And so I think that it is precisely our task as a legislative body to support these rights very effectively and operationally and to move from these declarative general objectives to concrete measures that will be at the level of local self-government, at the level of the central state to help children, and in that sense, we support these amendments, which are mentioned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32735	Thank you very much, colleague. Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary, answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32736	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. In the opening statement, I said that this is primarily about technical amendments to the law, which is understandable in view of the amendments to the Act on the Part-Correl and the formation of the ministries, and that through sub-legislative acts, first and foremost through the regulation, what this law should essentially be resolved, so the way in which tenders are called, the procedure for proposing candidates, the criteria for awarding, the description of the medal, the charter. So these things will be solved through the rulebook. In order for the rulebook to be passed at all, it is necessary to amend the law. I have to answer these things that were said first of all by Mrs. Opacic. I think it is not correct to call this ministry in the sense that it is a virtual ministry and to call for responsibility for something which is not essentially the responsibility of the ministry to transfer it to the courts, jurisdiction to the courts and delaying the application of this law is because the courts of course did not carry out preparatory actions so that it could be transferred to the courts at all. So it's not the responsibility of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, it's the responsibility of the judiciary. A whole series of projects have been launched in this ministry. We need to know that this ministry is only a year in this form and that over the past years, a number of projects have been prepared to be implemented in this year, so that with full responsibility I can argue that responsible, conscientiously in this ministry are working, so here and concretely and this bill is, of course, in that sense, to bring it back to life or to create all legal assumptions that it can be implemented in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32737	That's it? Okay. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Opacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32738	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Secretary of State who said that I have wrongly accused this ministry and that the courts are not in the jurisdiction of this ministry. I know, sir, that the courts are not in your ministry's jurisdiction, but I also know that a law has come from your ministry to transfer family legal issues from the welfare center to the family courts from yours, by your ministry. How familiar I am with preparations at the Ministry of Justice and in courts are not for family courts the way we should have them, but that for family departments. Therefore, you too needed to do something to put pressure on yourself so that these family departments would function as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32739	The same also appeared for the correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32740	Yes, very similar to what my colleague Milanka Opačić corrected. Mr. Secretary of State said it was the courts' fault that there was no transfer of affairs that the Constitutional Court said had to be transferred. Therefore, it is true that part of the guilt is safe in courts, but the direct culprit is exactly the competent ministry where you are the secretary of state and you support, you have proposed an anti-constitutional law although the Constitutional Court has drawn attention to the urgent need to carry out these handovers of affairs, namely that courts solve, as all the international conventions on the rights of the child, on the rights of the man, that courts are solely in charge of the trust and care of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32741	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State doesn't have a say right now, so let's move on to the debate. No more club reports. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32742	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. And listening to the debate, in particular the opening letter of Mr. Secretary of State, the public would have to conclude that it is about amendments to the law that will further promote child rights. So the same is true in the assessment of the situation, where the reasons for the adoption and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by this Final Bill are cited. So the General Declaration on the rights of the child, the reform that has been made, is cited, and thank you very much for noticing, and criminal, social and family legislation that ensures the effective application of the protection of the rights of the child. The law, the basic Law on the Prize for the promotion of child rights, was passed during the coalition government. He has only 12 articles as appropriate to such a law. And what's this about today? This is about amending that law, and what does this change actually want? In the Law on Prizes for Promotion, Article 1. In the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, the words "Minister in charge of Social Care Affairs" are replaced by the words "Minister in charge of the Family". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 10, "The Ministry of Labour and Social Care" is replaced by the words "The Ministry of Family Affairs". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 11, "the Minister in charge of Social Care Affairs" is replaced by the words "Minister in charge of the Family". The fourth article even has: This Law shall enter into force within eight days of the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper". A year or three or four months after the government took office, more quickly changed the resolutions, the ministries so that without any earlier preparations and it took a year and three months to remember that in a law that has only 12 original articles, there are such things as to do exactly this. Something that was a job right away in 15 days, which, if you didn't already, was logical to make this earlier preparations that were made, to remove all the laws that had been passed earlier during the coalition government. The truth is, it's a much bigger job because there were a lot of laws to get rid of these technical things first, and it can all be solved within a month, but it took a year and three months. So at that rate, I've calculated how many more laws, but I'm not going to tell you, that's the government's job, you have to change what laws you have right from your portfolio. It would take you six mandates to change technical things at this rate, and then on the content of whether or not we should talk about it at all. But I believe that you wouldn't remember it either, but here it is now going to be for a year, so it should be noted with the award, so it needs to be made possible by the Minister in charge, i.e. the Minister. But where work is to promote child rights, there is no question about it. Here you see here the assessment of the situation in general, this assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption and the fundamental issues that should be regulated by law are the introductory letter for the adoption of the basic law. He has nothing to do with this final change. Only what is shyly understood here in the end, that for these reasons, the reconstruction of the ministries proposed by law is a possibility for the award to promote the rights of the child. So the reason for this law is just that, and that would be quite logical if you did it a year and two or three months ago, as is the scale of this one at all, this is done in five minutes. But here's to remind ourselves a little bit. Reforms of criminal social and family legislation have created preconditions for the child’s better position and that is correct. However, the reform of criminal law has been stopped. The government was also visited by associations, there's an Association of Protection, a Family Association that's victims of a crime whose underage children were murdered. They were promised a lot of things in the government, even to be introduced as proposed during the coalition government and brought, a life sentence for child and minor murderers. On two occasions you've changed the Penal Code in the government, but of these changes, even though it's promised to the public and to that particular association, not a word. At the same time as the union was promised, the same day there was an amendment to the Penal Code where there was no word on this. As a result, better protection, criminal protection against these most violent acts has been stopped. You have also made it impossible in the family legislation to do a lot of advanced things that the Family Law contained. You also rejected the SDP's proposal to reduce VAT on children's equipment, but here it continues to state that there are tax benefits for the family with children will produce certain results. You cite here and implement measures of an innovative population policy. But here's the government long ago had to propose a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, but none of it. Mysteriously, the law disappeared, and the public got excited with justice. Contradictive words and attitudes are coming. Obviously, the government does not have some position on this, but I say it states that measures are being implemented by the most intelligent population policy. You've abolished Motherhood and Youth Protection. Do you even know that this is a decade, an international decade of culture, peace and non-violence for children of the world from 2001 to 2010. And it was held in 2002, the World Summit on Children, where children order certain things that have been stopped just during this current government. That's exactly a better criminal child protection. It's sexually colored development and raising boys and girls starting from preschool to later college. The conclusions are that it is necessary to take care of the changed role of men and girls in society from the earliest youth to bring down the final prejudices that guarantee and guarantee indeed the achievement of democracy and gender equality starting from the earliest age. In all this, there are no words, not only do you not have to state it here, but there are no concrete results from the ministry. During the coalition government, praise was made, the law to give birth benefits to mothers as well. So the ones that are still in school. We asked on behalf of the SDP club for the bill to be equal, i.e. that the birth benefits be broken down, which means that a woman should not be punished because she is a mother or because she became a mother in school or in college, but you refused. So this bill of law of yours is really one thing I would say is a child's matter, child's work, with apologies for the children, the children of the world who have brought this declaration and who warn you that they are not only the future but are the present.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32743	Thank you very much, colleague. I am also obliged to tell you an apology relating to counterpart Antun Kapraljevic, who submitted his application on behalf of the HNS and PGS clubs. With the failure of technical services, he was at the bottom of an individual debate, so I ask you that because of this failure, a colleague has the right to speak now. It's not the usual procedure, but here's an apology to my colleague, and before that, the Secretary of State for Answers called, and then I ask you, colleague Kapraljevic, on behalf of the club. Thank you for understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32744	A respected representative calls the ministry on why the law has now been found in the debate over the amendments. Probably should've been him before, I can accept that. At the same time, however, I can ask you a question, why six months has not been passed so that this law can be implemented at all. The law was passed in May 2003, no sublegal act was adopted until the end of the year to allow the regulation to be implemented. And just one more thing. In the case of family law and the postponement of the application of certain articles, when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction, it has been postponed because the judiciary has on two occasions requested that the law be postponed because not all assumptions and pre-cooperation have been created for the judiciary to take over those cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32745	Thank you very much. You've actually corrected some allegations. An MP named Ingrid Antičević-Marinović came forward to correct your allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32746	It's incorrect what you said. Why? In fact, in the form of questions, you answered that the former government should have passed the rule under this law. The law was passed, published in "The People's News" on May 29, 2003. 6 months, sir, please read this Law that has only 12 articles and which says that the term of office of that authority was then expired. Because on the 23rd, there were elections that you came here for, so at least that's what you should... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32747	Thank you very much. A colleague of Kavljevic's, finally. Here you go. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club. Another apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32748	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Law itself, about the essence of the Law, it means that I will not speak a word about the way we bring it and when we bring it. As the secretary of state said, these are just technical changes. Technical changes that are more than a year late. With these technical changes, we are just harmonising this Act with amendments and additions, in fact, with changes to the jurisdiction of the ministries that we have done, we should do at the beginning of the term of office. The law was adopted on 29 May 2003, published on 10 June, entered into force on 18 June, and the sublegal acts were to be adopted within 6 months. What I asked the prime minister at the "Current Hour" when we will finally begin to bring normal deadlines to bring sublaws into those deadlines. We either set ourselves a deadline that we cannot respect or speak about how someone else imposed a deadline on us so that we could not honor it. Only in the Safety and Roads Act did we bring 28 sublegal acts out of date. And this is something we bring in more than a year late. It doesn't matter that we're so late, but I wonder, is it true that there weren't a lot of those people who did a lot of work on promoting child rights, so they won't have a chance to win a prize, or people or a group of citizens, so they won't have a chance to win a prize in 2004 or 2005? And only because we didn't do our job. Not us like those who should have changed the law or passed the law, but the government and ministers who didn't propose changes and supplements, and we adopted them. And that's why I'm calling again on the government and the ministers to define those deadlines that they can honor on their own. Don't make us laugh, too, and don't make them look ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32749	Thank you very much, colleague. An individual debate. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32750	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32751	You're giving up? Thank you very much. Next up is Drago Prgomet, MP. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32752	Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, when we think and talk about children, then we tend to say that children are our greatest gift to God, our present and our future, and I think that's absolutely true. Unfortunately, though, children are getting smaller every day, and we have long spoken of the threat of extinction. So, according to the United Nations projection, Croatia will in 2015, which is actually so close, have 143 thousand inhabitants less than or 25, and that is so close again, we will have fewer inhabitants for one Osijek and Zadar together. So here's just to say one thing, let's say in 1980 we were the number of people born to the number of deaths, so we had 18 thousand and 120 more. In 90, it was 3 thousand and 217, so that in 2003 they would be down by 12 thousand and 907 inhabitants, which is indeed a data that concerns and warns. And all of this we hear and it doesn't really touch us or touch us personally, and the most common answer is that more than 300 thousand unemployed 60% are women. And here are the problem of housing and other problems, social and economic, socio-psychological. I think these psychologically are also the most important. And what, in part, affects the birth rate, but it's not crucial. And that's how these Western European countries show us that they're certainly far beyond our standard, but yet they're similar to ours. Although the number of children born is getting smaller and their participation in the total population is also increasing, children’s rights are often threatened. Well, the data suggests that 20,000 youngsters were victims of domestic violence, which is only with school violence. Throwing out psychic and physical violence, mockery, and even blackmailing what was spoken of openly, and it is good that it is. What about breaking children's rights in the media? The rights and privacy of children in Croatian media are being violated. The same has already been said here, and the children are a particularly sensitive group and they need special protection. But we are also talking about them here, but the rights and privacy of adults in the media are being violated, which we should talk about as well, to set the limit as far as freedom of the media is concerned, and when it comes to human rights violations. The violation of children's rights in the media in Croatia was warned by the United Nations Children's Rights Committee and expressed one concern. Our media put it shyly after three months. What about protection, too, children's rights in various accommodation homes? Because there's still a large number of children, spending several years in institutions, it's said that the average is somewhere between 4 and 5 years. That there are about a thousand and 500 children, 150 of whom are younger than 3 years old. In the foster home, there are about a thousand and 200 children without parental care. I think it is really necessary to facilitate the adoption of children as well as the housing of foster families which is incomparably better for children and for society cheaper, and we know families with us who have fostered children where they really care for them with extreme love and attention. That's why every child needs a family to praise UNICEF's action, and that's what's been said so nicely. It is essential, therefore, to pay greater and necessary attention to the rights and interests of children, to prevent violence among children and to any form of child abuse. Promoting the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and other international documents in the circle of children's rights and creating conditions for their consistent application through harmonisation and domestic legislation. The co-operation of competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity, as well as the Advocate's Office as well as other institutions, is also needed. It was also necessary for the Ministry to finance the printing of books for blind and undersighted students, as well as the launch of a children's workshop with computers, libraries and playrooms, which will visit villages and smaller places where there is no possibility of an organization in its own engagement of these environments. It's been said here on several occasions about the Alimentary Fund. It can be an expression of good faith of society and state in order to protect the rights of the child, but certainly there can be no way to solve problems and to neglect, so they avoid the legal obligations of parents to abstain. It is necessary to establish, as we have pointed out in previous discussions, courts and departments that will deal with family issues and the protection of children's rights. And it certainly is not good that we had to postpone it, and as we heard, it is not a mistake in the ministry, but in the insufficient preparation of the courts. Because still under the devastation of family communities, children are thrown out of special traumas. All of this will improve the position of children and protect and promote their interests, which will certainly contribute to these amendments to the Law on Prizes for the promotion of the rights of the child and I will therefore support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32753	Thank you very much, colleague, it's your turn to represent Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32754	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly look back on the changes to this Act or normote technical changes and support them because it really belongs to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, I am sorry that my colleague Antičević spoke in such enthusiasm about the Law as one lame child thing and so looked back even though it really was a normote technical change, regardless of the norm technical changes this ministry is doing and it shows its numerous programs. What I imagine is that reward for promoting the right of the child that it is a reward that will in some way sensitize the public to promote the rights of the child and, in an explanation, it is said that it stems from the Convention as it was adopted, the United Nations Convention 1989, and the Republic of Croatia became a party to that international treaty in 91. This has, of course, undertaken to ensure that international standards are applied to the protection of children and to comply with its requirements under this Convention, i.e. to take other measures for the exercise of children's rights in practice. The most important parts of this Convention and they say that all children have equal rights, each child has the right to the name, the right to care for freedom of expression of opinion, privacy, information, protection from abuse, the right to education and health care, and we have heard, perhaps colleagues do not find that interesting. Maybe they don't find that interesting right now, but I just heard they're interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32755	You're right fellow I have to secure peace at the Assembly, so please colleagues and colleagues, colleague Caparin says you're defocusing so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32756	We heard on World Cancer Day that there are four children waiting in Klaic's hospital for each hospital bed. The child has the right to rest, to play, children without parents have the right to special care, disabled children have the right to special care and care. It is really worth UNICEF's action to promote fostering children without adequate parental care called "Every Child Needs a Family" which is also supported by the Ministry of Family and Defence. In the Republic of Croatia, 1600 children are located in 18 homes of social care and 61 children are up to one year old, 105 of them aged 1 to 3 years. Institutional homes cannot replace the family, however, national legislation must ensure that each child is protected. Let us consider strengthening the social care center, taking away parental rights for those who do not care about children anyway and assigning families who have all the conditions for adopting such children. The fundamental right to life is linked to a man of conception and is on us to promote the activities of protecting the rights of family and children. The Republic of Croatia has assumed all the responsibilities arising from the Convention and concerns its implementation and the obligation to amend and adapt existing laws and acts in accordance with this international document. Every child is granted the right to life without drugs, alcohol and nicotine, and we have recently discussed it, all of us are touched by the abuse of a one-month-old child, truly horrendous. Unfortunately, the list of children awaiting treatment due to the problem of abuse and trauma continues to grow. Last year, 4624 crimes committed to the harm of minors were reported to include 2 thousand of them in the category of abandonment or abuse of a child or a minor. The number of crimes against minors increased by 25.7% last year compared to the year before. And it is a special problem that I am pleased that a colleague from HSS referred to media obligations to protect children's rights, which was warned by the United Nations Children's Rights Committee last year and expressed concern about the violation of the rights of children's privacy in Croatian media. It recommended that the Croatian government take the necessary measures to ensure that the media fully respects the right of children's privacy. Instead of sensational information, the media should indeed encourage the development and strengthening of people's sensitisation of child suffering, or contribute to public condemnation of violence. To praise and respond to the Ombudsman for children who recently stated that her demand for child protection in the media should also be entered into the press code for not meeting the support in that section. The reward for promoting the right of the child is indeed for anyone who really cares about the welfare of children to improve their dignity and promote rights. The prospects for the protection of children's rights are significantly better if knowledge of the rights and principles and provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child from which it came and this prize has reached the highest public level towards adults and children. It is really up to us to do all this and not to look back at normotechnical norms, norm technical changes to this Law and to show it in reality by our actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32757	Thank you very much. In 12 and 46 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. Next up is representative Lucia Chikesh, please be my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32758	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I support the Law of Rewards for promoting the rights of the child because this is also one way to protect and promote the child's rights. Of course, every prize is a great recognition but it is an even greater obligation for whoever receives it and therefore a longer term work of individuals, groups or institutions should be taken into account when awarding the prize, or volunteering. Why is it said only now to pass this Act, on the other hand it was heard from the SDP Club as it says this Bill proposal is for you children's business or as the other colleague has declared we expect this Ministry of the Family to pass one more real law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law was passed on 3 June 2003 and in the signature of this is the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Zlatko Tomcic. So, first of all, this is the Law adopted by the coalition government and you each compliment on this, and you shouldn't have been so angry if there were only nomotechnical changes with it we admitted both to you and the effort and work and fully respected your law and I don't know why... means you deny yourself in that anger that you only report denying your work. We're here to promote the right of the child, we're here to act all together on the right of the child and not something that's been passed, and now just nomotechnical change needs to be so attacked, I think that you're attacking yourself, and this is not how we're going to go forward and work constructively, but we're bringing confusion between ourselves and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32759	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mršić's representative here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32760	Well, I'd like to replicate our law on this. If that's how we define that in one congregation there are our laws, and in another, your laws are being summed up, then I don't think that's going to get us far. The law that we are changing today has been passed by the Croatian Parliament it is worth the same to all of us and I think it would be good if we changed the laws more rarely, because they were brought by the previous assembly or by someone else we didn't vote for. There's an important law here, I think he had both support in the Parliament, but also in the citizens. So I think it's not good for colleagues to say that our law or your law, the law has been passed by the Croatian Parliament, applies to all citizens of Croatia, even to those who voted against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32761	Thank you very much. You have the right to respond to the replica of Councilwoman Chikesh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32762	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, the law has indeed been passed in the assembly of your majority, your majority. Therefore, it is not your law and ours, but you are now attacking him with something that was brought in at the time when you chaired this House, and that is the point. So, just to be against it, not to bring something constructive. Nothing in this law has changed in 12 of these points, except that the Ministry of Labour and Social Care has been replaced with the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. And I don't think there's any reason why we've been here for over an hour we've been attacking each other when I say there's just been a change of this and nothing more. Neither yours nor our law, but the law passed to the majority, when you were the majority authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32763	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Opacic's incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32764	So I'm correcting Mrs. Chikesh's incorrect claim that we ourselves deny our work and attack our law. That, Mrs. Chickesh, is absolutely incorrect. We're just saying that this is the fifth law from the Ministry of the Family where the numbers and letters are changing and that it's high time after a year that everything we haven't been able to do in three and a half years, and there's a lot of problems that Croatian families have, that it's high time for something to start working in this ministry. In addition, you change the permanent ministry, the date and the year when something will start to happen. That's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32765	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Vesna Škulic for the debate. Here you go, fellow Shkulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32766	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The diversity, seriousness, human rights violations, children with disabilities, or children with developmental difficulties is being maintained, so it is still at a very high level of concern, and there is still no relevant attention. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has led to attention being drawn to the area and the problem of children's rights such as sexual exploitation of children, child labour, children in armed conflicts and violence against children are generally recognised as a question of human rights requiring action. To date, however, no similar interest has been expressed in the situation of children with developmental difficulties. These children remain largely hidden within the family or institutions threatened by the neglect of their economic, social, cultural and civil and political rights. It is an absolute shame not to provide parents and guardians with any valid form of support or services. It is even more embarrassing that children with developmental difficulties are exposed to elementary abuses and neglect of their rights. Children with developmental difficulties do not listen to what they have to say and do not take them seriously. No information is available to them, and they do not have the right to privacy and physical integrity. Unfortunately, this Law speaks of technical changes. Do not talk about doctors who when a mother gets a child with developmental difficulties, who tells her, ma'am, you can automatically leave your child at the maternity home we will put him in one of the institutions and no one will be responsible for it. It's not about letting kids out of school, or talking about non-accessibility, education facilities,... kindergartens, schools. It's not about the right to choose a profession. So I am interested in such children’s rights, that all children are equal in both rights and obligations. And finally, I'd quote something from the book, and this is our world, too. "There is a new time with us in which the birth of a disabled child will be welcomed with equal joy and hope as a healthy child is expected. So that the simple experience of the personality of each individual child with developmental difficulties is recognised as a special gift, dignity and humanity of all of us." And in the end, every child is a gift after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32767	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Škulić. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32768	... in a series of false allegations that my colleague listed, but one is terrible. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] That it is not true that doctors tell parents to leave the child and that they will take care of it. First, they don't have any authority to take care of such a child, and in their hypocrates' oath it doesn't stand anywhere, I think we all hold it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32769	Thank you. Next up is Mrs. Chickesh. Here you go, Mrs. Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32770	I was just about to touch this one too, because I know a very well-known pediatrician as well as gynecologists and neonatologists are working on a child born with difficulties. And by no means, as my colleague Caparin said, they don't have gynecologists or neonatologists or hospitals any authority that they're going to frame the child. You know exactly who does it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32771	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Chikesh. Next is the debate for Mrs Ljubica Brdaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32772	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In a situation where it treats the ministries like lego cubes, it's no wonder we're discussing such bill proposals. I'd be far happier, which doesn't mean that I don't support the award sharing of rewards to those who advocate the promotion of the right of the child that we have material that will actually speak much more about promoting the right of the child than about the rewards of those who will get it. When it comes to the declarative level, we will all agree that children are our future, our treasures as we love them, as they are necessary for Croatia. Because here we have heard stories today about the poor demographic picture of Croatia, and that's true. However, the problem will not be easy to solve, because we heard, it also contains economic components, it is a matter of choice, whether people who are married or not want to have a child. Because actually when we talk about it, we have to keep in mind that people are primarily giving birth or should have children from lovers themselves, not just for the state to have a certain number of inhabitants. It is also very important how these inhabitants will live, how they will feel. Whether we will be a country satisfied with healthy citizens or we will have a large part of the traumatized population that will solve its frustration in aggressive ways, whose appearances we have from our family through kindergartens in schools, on the street. I have to say that yesterday a woman was beaten yesterday on a bus ride from Zapresic in the afternoon, that a busload of men and women were calmly watching all of this and did nothing. When you abuse your mother, you abuse an automatic child who sees or hears her living on an unhealthy level, who has no basic right to a safe home, to healthy emotional development, and about something else that we don't even talk about. Human rights are one thing: declarations, laws necessary, and it's good to have them, but on the other hand there's life and practice that are sometimes very ugly, and here we all remember this one-month-old baby accident, the case is not unfortunately lonely. In this society, very little is said, and it is a population of unprotected weak, weak that there is an incest, that there is sexual abuse, that there is physical, emotional and every other violence and that sometimes children are not believed, and even when they are believed, the problem tries to cover up, push under the carpet, because it is a shame for the family, shame for society, shame for all of us. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a situation in some schools where teachers make students kneel and spit on them because they've pissed them off with their behavior. It's the humiliation of a human being. These children, she has a lady, unfortunately she has, these children are neither the property of their parents nor the state, they are persons, full human beings, and so should they be treated and taken care of because they are the ones who need to take over, continue where we stand to be able to do so, to be happy and to be healthy. It's a great responsibility on all of us, and that's why I think we should talk a lot more about promoting all human rights and, above all, children because they are really the weakest unprotected group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32773	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Brnadić. Next up for debate is Mrs. Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32774	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Now, as we have had the opportunity to hear, there is indeed only a formal amendment to this Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child because it is a change in the work of individual ministries, but in my view it is one excellent opportunity, once again one reason to speak of the rights of our children and to protect the same rights that can never be talked about enough. The role of the state, the role of civil society associations, the units of local self-government and the family as a nucleus of society are truly inevitable, I would dare say a kind of crossroad that actually children's rights must go from one declative support to realisation and real protection of all children's rights. The child has the right to a safe and peaceful life within the family, has the right to material security, health care, the right to education but also the most important right to family love, the right to play, the expression of opinion and freedom in expressing creativity. But today, the situation in Croatia does not really follow the real needs of protecting children's rights and childcare issues. So we are witnessing delays in the formation of family courts, delays in the formation of an alimony fund, even though the pre-rebalance of the 2004 budget has already been provided maternity benefits have not been increased although Minister Kosor is constantly in the media, so there are praises that these fees have been increased. In fact, the former government had the courage and extended this circle of maternity benefits from the unemployed mother to the mother craftsmen, or mothers in self - interest, and, of course, mothers in regular schooling. The SDP's proposal was rejected to de-distribute maternity benefits and there was no comment on the introduction of a zero VAT rate on food and children's supplies. When children are cut off for a promised alimony fund, they are actually cut off for the possibility of ensuring a dignified life that the state is actually obliged to provide. It is a sad fact that instead of a country, certain measures of the most innovative policy can and must introduce a unit of local self-government, almost the only one. That's how it is, for example. In the last year, a children's supplement of 100, 300 and 600 kuna was introduced for the first, second, third and every next child born in the family, the city of Zagreb also introduced free textbooks for all Zagreb elementary schools and increased the subsidisation of the price of mangers and kindergartens. Children’s rights are particularly threatened in families who are underly concerned about their children, but are located in children’s homes, children, especially those with some difficulties, or with some form of disability, they find it difficult to find their replacement families, rarely adopted, but there is still something easier to foster foster foster families. Those who stay in their homes are often left to themselves after finishing school, left to the street, and adulthood for them really means a rough encounter with reality. Some units of local self-government have been able to assign a residential space for such younger minors who until then were protégés of a child's home in Nazorovo, but I'm afraid that such partial assistance will not actually contribute to the general state of care and protection of children's rights in Croatia. The fact is that some units of local self-government have opportunities, have budgets to help children, and some others don't. And I think it's actually the worst injustice. If someone outside Zagreb sees what children's rights are in Zagreb where they are at a relatively good level compared to the rest of Croatia and then it is also tragic, also sad for these families and for those children. And finally let me say that those who are involved in promoting child rights should really be rewarded, but to ask them, I think a bigger reward would be a child's smile than some cash compensation or care about who will award that reward. I think it's quite arbitrary and I think that the state has ended up having to take matters into its own hands, not that the only children actually care, that only children are taken care of within the local, or regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32775	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Caparin's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that Madam Minister Jadranka Kosor did not subsequently increase the maternity leave, etc., however, dear colleagues the conflicting power abolished in 2000 all those subsidies that this ministry has brought back to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32777	Next in line for the debate is counterpart Zvonimir Mršić, please welcome colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32778	The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, of course, that this is a nomotechnical law which would essentially make no sense to discuss if we were to discuss the subject of the amendment of the law. And maybe there were other more effective ways to make this change. But since we already have such an important law and I think it's really an indication of people, institutions that can serve as an example of child care and promoting the right of a child that it's a good thing to have a law and reward such people, then maybe it's a good thing that today and today the whole debate and has come down to pointing to some problems in achieving the rights of children who have children. It might be good if we had a theme debate along with this Law and something else on the exercise of the right of child in the Republic of Croatia, so let's see how we are standing with the state of exercise of these rights, which rights have children to define them at last in one place, to see where there are problems and to see what this government and the Ministry of the Family will do to increase the possibility of achieving these rights. I am going to talk here today about children who unfortunately do not have the privilege or are not so fortunate to live in happy and satisfied families, so children without adequate family and parental care. The HDZ Club colleagues talked about how the UNICEF has launched every child's right to have a family, and it's really good that the action is launched. Today, about 2,500 children without proper care are already located in the foster home, somewhere around 1560 I think they are located in institutions. And this action was launched by UNICEF, not by the Family Ministry or the Ministry of Social Welfare. What unfortunately the Ministry of Social Care launched a year and a half ago was, a year ago, sorry, it was to go into deinstitutionalization of social care in the field of childcare without adequate parental care, so as a pilot project to close the children's home in Koprivnica overnight, to place the children by foster families and to return the facility to the church by practically unisoning the action of the local community that action was prevented. And these children are still happily placed in that home of the children's house of sunrise in Koprivnica. However, we have said that the action is good and it is really good for children without adequate parental care to be placed in families that will allow them to live on family occasions. But we were wondering what kind of problems foster parents already have children have, we were wondering what rights these children have that are now located in foster families. Unfortunately, although several foster associations in the Republic of Croatia have requested a meeting with both Minister Hebrang and Minister Kosor in a year, they have not been able to meet with the two resolution ministers. They have neither been given the opportunity to increase their family benefits in the name of caring for those children. And the current fee for those children is 1600 kuna. At the same time, the state budget is set aside for children without adequate parental care, located in institutions, therefore, in children's homes, between 4500 kuna and 11,000 kuna. So for children who do not have their own family and who are concerned by the country's range of care or contributions from the state budget is between 1500 and 11,000 kuna. Also, foster organizations simply wanted to meet with the minister, or minister, and to discuss these problems. They wanted to define what rights these children have, so what those children are entitled to. For example, do they have the right to free textbooks that they had to deal with individually with each social care centre this year, so some have managed to get the right to be completely free textbooks and some get only 50%. Do they have the right, for example, to compensate for clothing and shoes or other rights? Unfortunately, here they could not get an answer to these questions, and perhaps now that UNICEF has launched this action, it would be good for every child to talk about what rights or obligations they will have for foster families and how much money the state will give to those foster families. It would not be good to understand this action by the state if it saves in the state budget, because the amount of care from 11,000 kuna per child will be reduced to 1500 kuna. Otherwise it hasn't been increased since 2001, the costs have increased and I think it would be urgent for foster families to increase it to an appropriate amount. Likewise here, a colleague of Jelena said what she had to do with younger adults, or what she had to do with those children when she was 18 years old. That's when every care of this country ends for those children. Today, when they are in the children’s homeland, they must practically be thrown out into the street. When they are found in foster families, these children likely remain able to be in those foster families for some time. But only a few units of local self-government go to single out housing and create so-called. Isolated housing units. This is an example in Zagreb that is an example I think in Split, it is an example in Koprivnica we have an example of major problems in Slavonski Brod where the County Assembly launched a humanitarian action to raise money for building a happy house. So there's this huge problem where, with an administrative limit of 18 years, these kids are practically thrown out on the street. That's one problem. Another problem is that those children who spend 18 years in a children’s home are not prepared for their own life, so they are 24 hours under care and should be prepared to have certain obligations and cannot be done in children’s homes. And it should be seen that the Ministry of Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Welfare, singled out a certain amount for the construction or purchase of the so-called. Isolated housing units. When we talk about children and then it would be good to talk about the youngest babies, I ask here how many babies we have in Croatia freedly hospital and how many states all hospitals in Croatia get that UNICEF-of sign. Yes, so parents can attend the birth so that their fathers can attend the birth. YES mothers can be with their newborn all the time, not to be placed in boxing and mothers in hallways or under 10, 12 parents to be placed in individual rooms. How many hospitals in Croatia have the possibility that when, unfortunately, children are sick, one of the parents will be with them in the hospital. And how much, for example, this year or in next year's budget projections, are scheduled to adapt the children's departments in our hospitals, that they adapt to these conditions. Or I was talking when we talked a few days ago about kids having the right to education. But when will the country finally define what is the standard of primary education in the Republic of Croatia. What is it about a child that every child who attends primary school has the right to do. Does he have the right to a certain number of squares, to what number of squares? What kind of tables must be, have really given textbooks free of charge or not. Unfortunately, today we still have elementary schools in which we have no basic conditions, such as the sanitary node within the facility. We have a school where we have no running water, within the facility and where schools are not connected to the public water supply system. And so on and so forth. So if we're talking about child rights then certainly the state needs to finally define the standard and say here's every child has the right to this standard of education. And gentlemen, in the end, when we're already bragging about the maternity benefits that are allegedly increased, which I don't know what happened to them. It should be said that, unfortunately, in Croatia today, all mothers on maternity leave are permanently punished because they are not being paid pension funds or kunas, neither in the first pillar nor in the second pillar. And those mothers will have because they're on maternity leave less pensions. And that's the fact that we need to talk about, I don't think we can punish mothers and families for being mothers then. And having kids. DA permanently have fewer pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32779	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mrs. Gristle. That concludes the list of MPs who applied for the debate. Mr. Secretary of State. That's when we finished discussing this wheel. I'm closing the debate for the morning. And we continue at three now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32780	Final draft law amending the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. The debate is closed. Emergency procedure. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. You can vote. Proposal for Law No. 245. It's a child rights award law. You can vote. Score. With 99 votes for, 7 abstentions and 3 against, the law on amendments to the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session with the third item of the agenda, today's consolidated agenda: - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 189 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law apply to the adoption of this Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Justice Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the USCODE Act which should ensure a more determined and efficient fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as it endangers the fundamental demographic values of each society, and therefore requires a vigorous and effective reaction. The original law on BUSCOD sought to determine what colour it was to define, or define its structure, jurisdiction and powers, as well as the deliriousness and jurisdiction of the courts in the cases of criminal acts provided for in this Act. Nevertheless, from the time of the law's passing to this day, many shortcomings have been manifested through practice. First of all, the goal of setting up this office was its narrow specialisation in corruption and organised crime. However, the provisions of the 2001 SCOPE Act have clearly entered into the office’s jurisdiction some ambiguities, confusion, even though those provisions in the jurisdiction of the office have placed criminal parts of the association for the initiation of the criminal act referred to in Article 333 including any criminal offences committed by the group or criminal organisation other than criminal offences against the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces. After some time, the case law has shown that some crimes including the criminal offence of drug abuse committed by several persons are excluded from the jurisdiction of the USKOK. And that is why it is precisely one of the most important tasks of this amendment to ensure that the office is fully and unequivocally competent in criminal offences of organised crime and corruption. This was done by taxing such offences in such a way as to establish a catalogue of criminal offences for which the office is responsible. This is where crimes have been found that are, in themselves, corrupt as they are. the taking and giving of bribes, impertinence and bribery in economic business, abuse of the duties of the state authority but also of those who come to the office's jurisdiction only if they are committed in the composition of a group or criminal organization such as the criminal offence of the abuse of intoxicating drugs committed by several persons who have been associated for the sake of their actions, so around which it has been raised, frankly the greatest dust. In addition, it is also prescribed that the authorities and legal persons should, in the event of knowledge of the circumstances relating to the criminal acts of corruption of organised crime, submit criminal application or notification to the USKOK. In addition to the departments so far, it has been established as the fourth department for international co-operation and joint investigation, established as a department to cooperate with other countries and international organisations in detecting and processing corruption and criminal offences of organised crime with international elements in accordance with international agreements. Such cooperation is really necessary. The Office shall thus be competent, shall receive requests for special reconnaissances of criminal offences and shall forward them to the competent court and shall also receive requests from foreign states for legal assistance in criminal proceedings referred to in Article 21. The Jump Act. In the area of countering this type of crime, Croatia must respect European standards of human rights and freedom in order to protect its citizens and protect the fundamental values of democracy. Thus, this amendment introduced a significant exception to the legal regime of citizens' examination by the regular authorities. Namely, the covered investigator could not so far be questioned as a witness to the content of talks with a suspect who was thus temporarily restricted by constitutional rights and freedoms. This amendment seeks to introduce this possibility and thus extend the powers of the regular authorities. Of course, in order to prevent abuse and remain an exception, the Law prescribes certain restrictions. First of all, an examination of an undercover investigator as a witness by the regular authorities was established in case there was any concern that those persons would not show up for real or legal reasons, they would not show up at the main debate. The second amendment relates to the extension of the investigation, i.e. the U.S.A. reconnaissance actions concerning data representing banking secrecy and the initiation of the process of forced confiscation of the case. This change was necessary precisely because of the importance of urgent and effective action. Namely, by collecting data on citizens' bank accounts, it is affecting the privacy of individuals and its fundamental right to the confidentiality of data. This provision will assist or enable the USKOK to, when it finds out that a particular person in his account has the means to obtain suspicious transactions from the bank to supply data on that account. Therefore, the data on suspicious transactions will allow the office to act more quickly in the case of criminal investigations and this provision also gave the investigating judge the opportunity to make a request when the bank refuses to comply with the request of the office and the penalties of banks are also prescribed in case of refusal to act on the request of the USOK. While reconnaissance is needed before special measures with the temporary restriction of constitutional rights and freedoms, the judge could only determine for the offences of organised crime, this amendment gives him the opportunity to take these measures in corruption crimes before receiving and giving bribes only. With this amendment, our legislation is in line with the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime of the UN Convention against Corruption and the Criminal Law Convention against Corruption. And despite the effort to remove all shortcomings that make it difficult for USKOK to work and respect the application of individual representatives and opinions highlighted in the Committee on Justice, I must say that given the state of material and procedural criminal law, this amendment is the only thing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia could propose at the moment. However, I must also point out that there is a greater reform of the criminal proceedings in Croatia, more specifically the previous criminal proceedings intending to end the judicial investigation and, in order to more effectively detect the crime, criminal offences and perpetrators, put the previous criminal proceedings in the hands of the police and the state's attorney, of course, with the participation of the judge of the previous proceedings. The reform of the criminal proceedings will take place in parallel with the reform of police legislation and will be necessary to ensure sufficient vocacio legis and additional education and equipment of police, state's attorney's office and judges for effective implementation. Of the first-class importance in curbing such criminal activities is the ability of police, USKOK in identifying the situation with so-called. the signs of organised crime and the speed of response through the fixation and evidence assurance actions that the USKOK Act and other laws make available to them. Their mutual cooperation should also be facilitated by the normal provision of the BOOK Act, which intensively regulates relations between USKOK, police directorship, regular authorities, tax administrations and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Judges of Implementation. This government gives a better normative basis to curb corruption, organised crime and in the police, BOOK and resources and courts is that this normative template as a good instrument is used to combat corruption and organised crime more successfully. And here, let me end up with another sentence because the Committee on Legislatives has made a lot of remarks on the text, this text of the final draft law, we, as motions, will consider the comments and submit our amendments to this text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32783	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32784	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th session on 22 February, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office and the Legislative Committee, which supports the adoption of this Act. However, on the text of the final draft of the law, the Committee has also made numerous remarks and suggestions that due to the lack of legal, nomotechnical and linguistic nature. The number of objections and the proposal indicates the necessity of the applicant to further consider them and to supplement or amend certain provisions or parts thereof, thereby removing the doubt as to the need to implement the third reading of this Act. The observations and proposals of the Committee, which were mostly given by nomotechnical nature, were given in a report that you received on benches on page 8 today, and due to the length of the text, I would not read the report whole, but I will inform you that during the day with Mrs Minister and her co-workers I had a meeting with the Committee on Legislatives or the Service of the Committee on Legislatives and Madam Ministers and the Government will accept most of these remarks on which we agreed together, and I think that this satisfied the Committee's wish to come to the better text of the proposed Law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32785	Thank you very much. Do you want the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32786	Mr Vice-President, Minister, State Secretary of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 8 February 2005 the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The opening representative referred to the solutions proposed by the Final Proposal in relation to the proposal for a bill, which are the result of respecting the proposal and the opinion of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Article 21b is amended as follows: Article 21d has been amended in a way that the Office may require the control of the business of entities and other administrative organisations within the Ministry of Finance. In the debate, the Committee members supported the Final Proposal. Respecting the explanation of the applicant's representative, the Committee is of the view that the applicant should make an additional effort to open the debate in the Croatian Parliament in order to supplement point 2 on page 11 as the United Nations Convention on Corruption has been adopted in the process of adopting these amendments and supplementing the United Nations Convention on Corruption. In addition, given the fact that a number of criticisms have been highlighted in the adoption of the USKOK Act, the position of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is needed to ensure that these amendments and additions provide conditions for the operation of the USKOK. Article 21d, inter alia, regulates that the Office may request the competent administrative organisations of the Ministry of Finance to control the business of a legal and natural person and the temporary withdrawal of money, securities but is not regulated in which the procedure will be carried out. Article 42.b regulates that an undercover investigator as an official may be questioned as a witness, so a question arises why is this proposal not regulated and the question of recordings? In his closing statement, the proposing representative expressed his willingness to consider the Committee's opinions and views on the final proposal until the debate in the Croatian Parliament began. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation on the control of corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32787	Thank you very much. Do any other committees, committee representatives? President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32788	Dear Mr Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 36th session held on 22 February 2005 discussed the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, which was sent by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act on 12 January 2005. The Committee discussed the text of the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 63. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent board. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative introduced the Committee members to the reasons for the adoption of the proposed legislative amendments. It states that the proposed amendments and amendments bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union and that legal questions that arise in the application of certain provisions of the applicable USKOK law are answered. The Committee has asked the proposer's representatives to clarify certain proposed legal solutions, in particular the part for which offences is the relevant USKOK? After the debate was held, 9 for and one abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32789	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Immediately speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say, to point out that the SDP Club supports these amendments to the USCOD Act. I think these changes are commendable, that they are on the trail of a solution or an attempt to solve problems that have been practically met every day since he started working. How to enable efficient work and effective work. However, it is somehow the impression that since he was born or was first held by a parliamentary debate during the former coalition government, which was born with the will of the majority at the time, but with great opposition, it is somehow an impression to this day that his activity is, in essence, the help that all other state bodies, institutions, organizations are obliged to provide, somehow, as an unwanted child. Only in fact, if we see reports that the citizens were encouraged and that the greatest number of corrupt works had just reported brave citizens brought forward by the idea that things could change after all. And that swing was getting bigger year after year. It will also be interesting to see, not with regard to the work of USKOK, but to the obstructions of the work of USKOK, have the citizens dwindled in that faith, in that hope? Do they trust state institutions and if, to what extent? Here, allow me before I move specifically on to the observations on certain provisions and as a confirmation of what is therefore changing and why it was necessary to change exactly because of these different obstructions allow me to even imagine when it comes to this topic, why Croatia is losing weight with corruption. Representatives of the International Croatian Transparency Association are one of 80 branches of a global non-profit and political non-party association to combat corruption and its consequences. They published a ranking of 146 countries in October last year, given the corruption perception index, and Croatia ranks 67th on the ranking list. While in the same period of 2003 she was 59 places on such a ranking list. So a much more favourable place. So this is an objective indicator of the wave of corruption in Croatia. But it also shows a relevant and objective assessment data that Croatia received in 2001 and 2004. It is possible to estimate between 1 and 10 with one being rated as a completely corrupt country with a score of 10 countries without corruption. Croatia found 3.9 in this survey and was evaluated in 2001 or received a score of 3.9. While in 2004 she was rated with a score of 3.5. I hope so too, and I believe that both this law and this amendment are on this very trail to stop this trend and that corruption is really contained, that is, to explore and sanction better and more effectively. Speaking specifically here about this bill of law, I think it's worth the fact that an international co-operation department is being set up, and a joint investigation. To amend a provision on the anti-corruption department and on public relations which, unfortunately, has not yet been brought to life by the existing law. Of course, the question arises and why. There's always a little money, not enough money, and it's not good that this year's budget provides the truth a little less but still less resources, we know and the public is familiar with making fun of and then the authorities that there's nothing they've done in that financial respect with the living law themselves. So, however, the last two years things have been improved they've got space, but it's still not enough. And according to the existing law and later we will see how much of the money we spend needs to be allocated and provided in the state budget in order to revive these changes alone. However, a crucial issue is raised here, and this is precisely evident in the provision of Article 5, which is proposed to delete Article 17, since the provision on police officers who would be delegated to work in the office has not been revived. To be honest, it didn't go hand in hand to the coalition government or to this one. The relationship between the police and the state's attorney is worrying, but it's a controversial relationship that lasts almost forever. And here's what the legislator is doing, instead of forcing the police department to carry out its legal obligation, because it's a minimum of the success of the work and the results of the work if we really want USKOK to achieve the results. It has no other exits, so one ministry can't, like it failed to be objective to the previous government, to ensure that two police officers come into the work of the USKOK. But it outlines, so it's not a technical thing, it outlines the attitude of the state at all, I say to the police to the state's attorney's office. If that's how the police treat the state's attorney's office, there's no guarantee of success, specifically to USKOK. Here's the question of leaks. And we today also have through the law on criminal proceedings, which has changed significantly through the novel two lines of command in the detection and processing of perpetrators of criminal offences and the provision of traces of criminal offences. And as long as the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act is not implemented until the end, it is that the state's attorney's office becomes the main operating body and the police will have his service in that part of it, of course, to the joy of the perpetrator of criminal offences. The provision of Article 6 is commendable, because here it is finally, and if I think it has not been disputed before, but we see what strange situation the USKOK has fallen into, and now in this article 21, it is taxing that these are criminal acts for which the USKOK is responsible. In accordance with point 2 of Article 21 of the present Article, where amendments to Article 6 have taken place, it has been clearly prescribed that the Office is responsible for the crimes of the Association for the initiation of the criminal offences referred to in Article 33 have committed a criminal offence itself by association of the creation of a criminal organisation or association for the initiation of a criminal offence. But including all crimes committed by a group or a criminal organization. And, of course, on the basis of such legal solutions, USKOK has also initiated criminal proceedings for the offences referred to in Article 333 and the largest number related to Article 173(3), and it is the abuse of the use of intoxicating drugs or specifically for the trafficking of intoxicating drugs. But I won't comment on the Supreme Court decisions here. The Supreme Court has denied the possibility of jumping to prosecute this kind of crime in this way. Because to God, it's because it's about the seemingly ideal gain, and it can only be about Article 333. Both automatically, i.e. on Article 173(3), which is the responsibility of the SCIK and which would then fall under regular jurisdiction. And that's what makes all the point and all the point, which is why it's just an unannounced jump. And it's good to get rid of this weird situation now. And it's much better to do it by amending the law than by some authentic interpretation of a credible interpretation of the Parliament. Because it always sets out the possibility in one way of influence and coercion towards justice. When we don't like how it solves. So in that sense, it is theoretically absolutely right to go on then to amend the law to tell the judiciary exactly what the legislator then passed and thought. But maybe there's not an adequate way to make something too clear and say it. So, quite then, every dilemma is now excluded that it's about things, or that the USKOK is in charge, of Article 333, so for the creation of a criminal organization or, of course, associations and the whole series that are exactly, which are the basis of the act and the formation of such a criminal association. And this is exactly the kind of crime that pays the most to a group like the trafficking of white slaves, especially women, children, drug trafficking, distribution of pornography, etc. Well, I don't suppose it's the BOOK that's been formed, nor are criminal associations formed to commit, for example, crimes of double-marriage, but it's exactly what's the most rewarding and that's essentially the most dangerous thing for society. Article 7 was well regulated, therefore, that it is no longer just about the fundamentals of the suspicions caused again by the dilemmas between the police and the state's attorneys, i.e. USKOK, but rather about introducing a new slogan, a sign of organised crime as a criminal indicator that would signal to the authorities and legal persons that the existence of criminal offences from the jurisdiction of the USKOK was involved. But here we are facing a big problem, namely, the BUSKOK itself is facing a big problem here. What does he want from state institutions? To act. But they're silent. They don't respond at all. And I think if it weren't for a good solution for the Department of Money Laundering to be with the Ministry of Finance. It's hard to manage, it's big memos, it makes sense, especially if we want to contain and sharpen, deepen that fight against that kind of most dangerous crime, I think it's perfectly logical to go back to the Justice Department. And it's quite unclear why the Ministry of Finance resists it all the time and through every government. I think it would be given the reality and the need to sanction that deafness more strictly, which is why the state's bodies are silent. Or some other institution or organization. I don't think enough of myself certainly as it is here and states that non-compliance upon request that such an employee, employee or official makes it more difficult to do so. I think that would be something that would be very important to link exactly to the criminal acts of obstruction of justice. Can you imagine a single country, the judiciary is everywhere in the problem and in developed countries, in less developed countries, the burden of objects, the slowness of solving, but nowhere is it possible that the court has ordered something or someone else and that this is deaf and that nothing happens to anyone. As well as for the State's Attorney's Office, when certain powers are conferred upon him, such as this law, such powers as those of the Special Law, and to the SCIK. And that's where we come up with our biggest problem, the banking secret. So far, banks have refused to give USKOK State's Attorney's Office data. And relativating banking secrets is one of the best ways to solve the problem. That's why I don't think it's enough for the whole thing to be transferred later in case of deafness to the judge, so the judge can or can't. It was enough if we wanted to sharpen the matter, to get rid of the state's attorney's office if a bank, or a competent official, deafens to it, to be followed by a prison, as follows to any ordinary citizen who doesn't respond to a call or something does. And here at the end, just yet, it is commendable here that this bill marks the necessary amount of funds, that is three and a half million kuna to be provided in the 2005 Budget, and 2 and a half refers only to people's employment needs. So it stays just, it's the minimum means, and the question is whether it will be secured. There are only one million kuna left for the advance, i.e. for the increased fight against corruption and organised crime. However, if these funds are not secured then there will indeed be virtually nothing of the application of this law, and BUSKOK will remain truly as I initially said the unwanted child.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32791	Thank you very much to Mrs. Representatives. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the minister has left. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to this law and believes that most of the provisions provided for as a change are good, and it is logical that this law will more often experience changes and additions because the emergence of new forms of crime is particularly organised and that it will be necessary and amend that law. What is important is that this law is in line with European Union legislation is also extremely important because no country itself can effectively fight organised crime itself, against bribery and corruption, because these are two types, two groups of emerging forms of crime that are certainly cancer of the wounds of today's society. It is not just a question in Croatia, it is also a question in the world. There is no state that can say that they are clean from bribery and corruption, and there is also a question when evaluations and assessments are given on what basis and what parameters are taken to make an assessment of what place the state is taking. We are not meant to pass the law and form bodies that will effectively fight bribery and corruption in order to take 51st or 31st or 21st place, but only because of it ourselves, to prevent this evil and to stop such illegal actions and to stop it. It certainly requires material resources to implement this law, but above all, quality people are needed. We in Croatia have a limited number of people and in the police, meaning criminals and in the judiciary of judges and state lawyers, a limited number that such forms of crime can deal with. And so I would just like to point out when we talk about the staff that in Article 21a(3), the office employs at least two advisors who have acquired the calling of an independent police inspector or more. He's got to stand up for criminals. Because if they get the speciality of traffickers or other specialties there, it's going to be very hard to deal with this part. I therefore think you should add that item. So it is the personnel who must first of all be chosen in such a way that they are able to identify these phenomena, that they are able to recognize the occurrences of organised crime, and secondly that they are able and able to cope with such complex criminal acts. And that is why it is necessary, in law or later, to provide for permanent education in the laws and regulations, of these new forms that appear every day. PURPOSE so far has not been imposed as an institution unfortunately in Croatia. Neither law nor material resources will make that institution strong. The institution will be made strong within itself if it makes several real moves to expose the crimes for which the USKOK has been informed. So he himself, with a truly practical achievement of what he is set for, must impose himself. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Croatia so far, and I think there is a fundamental problem that this institution has not made credible, and it must first and foremost be made credible itself through the results of the work achieved. I welcome that in Article 15a. The Department for International Co-operation and Joint Investigations has been inserted because it is good and it is necessary for the speed and possibility of direct contact and thus preventing these illegal actions. However, when it comes to Article 21, Article 6 or Article 21a. etc. We believe in the club of representatives that we should consider whether all that is numbered should really be part-time work in that way that is counted within the law. We believe that the promoter should see again, because the heavy thefts that are here or, let's say, I don't know about the abuse of bankruptcy, tax evasion and other givings, abuse of powers in economic business, we need to see that I don't list any other crimes, do we not just bury USKOK with criminal acts, and that when you're sorry and when you look at all together now, it's a fundamental task, it's a fight against bribery and corruption, and then it means organised crime. For this organized crime, we believe that it is precisely the most difficult acts that are the abuse of intoxicating drugs, trafficking in human beings and slavery, illegal transfer of persons across the state border, illegal confiscation of freedom, etc. So that they are intruding right into the fundamental human rights that they may need to be numbered, and that everything else will lead to the situation that citizens will directly report to USKOK for serious theft or I don't know any other crimes because they will feel that this will result in a faster achievement of their rights. I don't think that would be good, and so we're just suggesting that the proposer reconsider whether to go with such a formulation or go with those criminal acts that we think should be there right now, because when you look at this list, then that's the entire contents of the Ministry of the Interior. It's a good thing it's finally resolved by this law to question bank secrets. No one wants to compromise the secrecy of bank accounts, but until then, just until there's a possibility of abuse. When this is a possibility of abuse and when it is shown that such a possibility exists then the banks are obliged to give and it is good that this law has been resolved here and well that the issue of the undercover investigator has been resolved. All in all these amendments and additions to the law, we believe that a total will enable and create legal preconditions that the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime can act effectively. However, I repeat once again, the office through its daily work, the office through precisely the successes in the disclosure of these basic tasks arising from this law, must be imposed through these results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32793	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, Mr. Jarnjak has tempered his original position a little bit when he said that the institution, therefore, has to impose itself and that it has not proved itself so far, so I am helpless from anyone. That's just not true. No institution works on its own or on its own or on air or on moral drive alone. She needs one support before, and this is not a good way to support those people who work bravely, who work hard because opposing organised crime means putting their lives on the line. These are the only state officials who are under constant surveillance of the service they associate with, what their property is until otherwise asked of the others. So I think it's a need, and if someone has failed and why it's not so effective that it's a responsibility for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32795	You've made your point. Thank you very much. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32796	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there are no ministers, she's always important debates in the Assembly seem to have other tasks and jobs, but I'm glad the representatives of the SDP and HDZ Club spoke ahead of us. Why do I say that on behalf of the HSP club? Because we do not share the enthusiasm of both the Minister of Justice and the SDP Club or the HDZ Club on the targeted achievements of this law, and that by adopting amendments and additions to this law, we will achieve something important only in the part that we have normally removed some obstacles which so far existed regarding the jurisdiction and work of the USKOK itself. Namely, corruption, bribery, robbery, conversion, conflicts of interest, organised crime, it is all cancer-earth Croatian society and the current topic and this assembly session and what Croatian citizens are most interested in. And now let's remember that in 2001, theatre was adopted by the U.S.H.O. Act and then normal, there were huge expectations and illusions of the establishment of USKOK, and now the state will be able to deal with both corruption and crime and robbery, and with all other problems that were still present in Croatia, which, unfortunately, are still current with the fact that on the scale of corruption and bribery and everything else, we are only progressing on the scales of world indicators. And that's why I can say right now on behalf of the HSP club, given the results of the work that we've been doing so far, it's like that people's shakes the hills weren't even born a mouse. Even the mouse wasn't born because we know that no big pompous actions and USKOK and anyone else ended up infamous. We know how it ended. We don't have any concrete real judgments of large fish for corruption, for robbery, or for anything else that is the jurisdiction of the USKOK. And that's why let's not create illusions about how we're going to solve something important by making these changes. That's true. It is in our opinion only a small legislative contribution, but what needs to be resolved first. There are more important things. I'll say it on behalf of the club. The first relationship between the police and the state's attorney's office, that is, in this case, the USKOK. We know for ourselves how many problems are present in practice, one works on their own, the other on their own, and basically no one fights corruption or organised crime. And the worst part is, is that all that data that the police have come up with, whether it's Bounce, or someone else's third leak. But it leaks into the phase while it represents official, state-owned, already depends on what kind of secrecy is. And those who are under such measures know among the first. And as long as that order is not done, until that reform is implemented, we can't expect anything to happen. We have Elliott Ness of this or that, unfortunately we ourselves know that there are no results. Now we're coming up with another third important element in establishing an effective system, that USKOK is doing its part of the job. They have to tie their hands to politics in all these situations. When we think politics, I think of those who are in power, whether it's the former government, whether it's this, whatever it's going to be. That means, and we know for ourselves how many cases there have been and today it's up to date that something is hitchhiking that's started because it's up to the authorities, whether it's her or her, it's not responding. And as long as we don't make a move all this is one big illusion, it's all one big delusion that something is done specifically, that we have the possibilities of a legislative one, and now we're going to have, like, the results of a USKOK that someone's going to end up in jail, that someone is going to take away the property they robbed, they've illegally acquired it. And only then, so when it starts that way, then we'll just get into a situation where all the citizens who file complaints also point to corruption, and bribery, and organised crime and everything else, surely even more so. But they have to see the results. Because if they report, and there's no result, they'll normally see for themselves that there's nothing they can do, that they're in front of the wall because they don't do the ones that should work. And now about these very changes and additions. I don't want to speak on behalf of the Club, we've talked a lot to the Committee on Legislatives, how badly prepared this bill is, although it's been said here that it's being done by prominent experts, what is lumen in this area that, truth be told, have no results in the fight against corruption and crime and everything else. That's what the board president said. On behalf of the HSP Club, we need to look at some things that seem to us to be bad solutions, and that is particularly true of the provisions of Articles 21.b) and others. It seems to us, and we're actually more secure than we think, that the BOOK is getting some great powers. Big powers that, if it were an organized system, if that system had results, then we wouldn't have anything to do with it. But these powers he gets for both bank accounts and for everything else, in a situation where politics is involved and where politics has tentacles to the State's Attorney's Office, according to the UKC is dangerous. Because these measures could be applied, and when they are brought, there will likely be already such first cases, against political inexperiences, against those whom they wish to be wronged. And so, not in terms of the fight against crime and corruption, but by twisting the thesis and indulging someone, looking for data to make USKOK, that this data is then how we're protected by classified information is, in no way, leaked and that part is made. And that's why we're putting the reserve on this part of Uskok's authority, and we're going to put it as a reserve until the USKOK starts to work concretely and until they have concrete and real results. We saw for ourselves what the situation was in Concar and Bago's affairs that the director of USKOK performed on television as Elliott Ness and everything else. At the end of it, nothing. And it seems to me that it is more located in the area of the Republic of Pescenica than it is in Croatia, to achieve results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32797	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32798	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Department of Justice, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. That's why I refer to this last controversy and Mr. Jarnjak and Mrs. Anticevic and Mr. Pera Kovacevic with the question of how successful our USKOK is in the first place. It may be best for citizens to judge themselves. However, it is certain that no state government body has a high opinion on our citizens, so they certainly do not have a USKOK at this time. Therefore, all of us should imagine together what we do, even though someone is wrong if they think it's different in other countries. And let's say now in Italy, citizens have a very high opinion of their authority, or in France, and so on. The problem, too, is that USCOCK in several cases, and I agree with Mr. Pera Kovacevic, has been well emboldened. I've been well embezzled. And maybe it's really the best Granic-Bago case. It went towards people in a way that at one point we all wondered what it was that turned into. Is this a mechanism of severe repression, or is its task a subtle fight against organised crime? Now, that's after us. This law certainly is, all the assembly clubs, at least I guess so, eventually will support it. The parliament, on the other hand, will support any proposal that intends to fight corruption. It is certainly in Croatia. I guess, from year to year, it's getting less and less, that the situation is getting more and more settled. On the side of this "transparency amnesty" score. However, the fact is that corruption in the Republic of Croatia does exist. Why? Well, I'd say because the cards were divided back in '91, '92, '93 in those conversion processes. In the meantime, clearly, everything has fallen into obsolescence. The state review correctly, under quotes, beatified and a general score, as Royce would say, "whom, yamio, yamio". So, in 92, 93, this social influence was intended to be overrun, it was today Croatia, along with the Suport of Parts of Politics and Justice of Croatia, entirely managed by large capital and part of the media throughout my court. And that's exactly right. And the naive one who thinks something important in this country can be influenced by this House. However, the Parliament is still the cleanest place of relations in our society, but the Parliament should constantly be called because those who do so know that there is no danger from the Parliament and God forbid it, and that the Parliament is making little decisions anyway. On the other hand, there are other problems in life. As far as the law itself is concerned, firstly this, by my judgment, famous article 15. I will indeed quote this indent, that "in the event of particularly urgent actions that foreign national authorities are authorised to take on their own under a special agreement in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, they then oversee the taking and making sure that a foreign state body does not violate the integrity of the House or the right to personal freedom and dignity of a person. After carrying out those actions, a final report shall be submitted to the Director, who may request the presence of the authorised party, the official when the report is submitted", a final quote. Now, gentlemen, what is this special agreement? Who will conclude this special agreement, whether it will be the Jump whether it will be the Government, whether it will be the Ministry of Justice or whether it will be this House. What are these foreign state bodies that can carry out these activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which they can do as such and what some other institution within Croatia will now take to avoid harming the right to personal freedom or dignity of persons as said in this paragraph. Here we all know that, say MI6 English Secret Service in 2003 and in early 2004 caught war crimes suspects on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Even in Jankomir, our services set fire to one of three vans with listening devices, which now means that they can do so in the future or that foreign state bodies should not yet be "intelligence services" I think the services should not do so and that Croatia is only doing it in respect of this moment as well as the next day, when it is not due yesterday. The truth is Croatia is now in a delicate situation and the people would say that every evil behind something good, and perhaps it was good that it came because they themselves were convinced that these suspects were not in Croatia, if by any chance they did not come during yesterday. But let's let it go now. It is indisputable that there would be no doubt when I speak of it, I am in a position and that Gotovina must defend his credibility in The Hague and that Croatia must not be held hostage by one man in any way, so as much credit in the defence of this country. And that sooner or later a witness point will be placed and this denial of the myth of the General. But let's let it go now. Which are foreign state bodies, we need to do it before we raise our hand to this law to know. What all these foreign state bodies will be able to do on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. How long these stores can last, etc. I mean one important issue of Croatian sovereignty, national integrity, in one word of the country's pride as a whole. On page 18, the Law proposal here, in the context of a literal explanation, states that paragraph 3 sets out the tasks of the Department for the Need of Joint Investigation as well as its powers in the supervision of foreign executive bodies, when they take urgent investigative actions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under special agreements. The department shall receive requests from a foreign country for the taking of special results of the criminal offences of Article 180. The CAP and forwards them without delay to the competent court and oversees the taking of investigative actions by the national authorities. Now you see, the word "supervisory" is mentioned here in the explanation, so someone in Croatia is overseeing that side of the body, but in the normative part of our law which is now about this surveillance is not mentioned in any way, and then it turns out that, as was the case, the foreign body simply on the territory of the Republic of Croatia does whatever it wants, which little country on the other hand would allow. There is also no doubt that every convention on corruption, this Parliament will ratify, every contract of such a type of government will conclude, any law that will speak of corruption, the Parliament will only adopt what will then end up being done by Uskok, or what the courts will do about it at some other time. And that's a fundamental question. The question means, knowing USKOK will not be revolutionary in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, there is corruption, there is corruption in the judiciary, there is it in the administration mainly in those segments of the state administration where work, construction and so on, to assume that there is in power, in large state-owned companies etc. What's going on about that when the drugs are due, I absolutely agree that it's good for someone to start dealing with drugs too. Now it's mostly intermittent with the IDS proposal where we suggest that all children in primary schools, high schools, colleges suddenly and constantly two, three four times a year undergo a drug test, and everyone on the other hand, it's normal for cops to subject us to the road whenever they remember the alcotest. So the alcotest that a drug test doesn't, that's funny, but those human rights abuse stories, I think that when that happens, they're declassified because that's exactly how we can prevent one of the worst behaviors in our society. Article 42(4) and (5) shall be spoken here if a bank, an investigative judge, can issue an order to the bank to provide, within the time limit referred to in the order of the office, the account of the person, if the bank does not act by order of the investigating judge or decision of the Council referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, an official or responsible person in the bank will be fined up to 20 thousand kuna and, if he refuses, it may be closed. The prison shall continue until the execution of the mandate for up to a month, etc. I am not against it in principle, however, we must be careful on the other hand. Let's just remember this last scandal about so-called. The Turkish presentation, which was based on a Regulation on national security obligations on telecommunications from mid-2003, gave the POA the right to, at the cost of even shutting down the operator from the same within one year, receive all phone numbers, perform who called, how long these talks lasted, etc., which was a wonderful thing to track journalists. Now, in order for that not to happen with this Article 42, and I think this House should be very thoughtful. We're careful not to bring one counter-constitutional norm, although I absolutely don't mind checking all suspicious accounts but under clear unequivocal legal standards. There can't just be a reason for such a single check, and I repeat, whoever is doing business in this country shouldn't be afraid of anything at all, even if the intervention of USKOK in a body, in a company of a legal person, automatically in public creates the impression that the individual is a criminal, and that legal person is a "criminal institution". I think that at the end of the day the decision should be made to the Supreme Court judges, as is the case with listening. We have to agree that USKOK has enormous power, only if the people who work in it are up to that challenge and that responsibility because they can't say so 35% of our cases end up with some judgment and in 2/3 of our case investigation as such collapse. Only the two-thirds of the data that are failing are people, these are people who have their families, their lives, their friends, their companies, and all of them can simply be questioned by such actions by a state institution, especially when the USOKK is in question. Therefore, the IDS will vote in favour of this legislative proposal, but in your hands, the gentlemen of the Justice Department, or USKOK, is a huge responsibility, although this statistics is not improved, we either need to talk sooner or later about the USKOK itself. Because disabling an individual, that's very easy. But rehabilitating an individual, even when the unfounded conduct of state authorities is almost impossible. And so much is the role of all the judicial bodies of BUSKOK, etc. State administrations as well as journalists are huge, because they specifically talk about judicial authorities are not responsible for what they've done, but their failures for an individual can be simply horrifying. I would therefore like to conclude with this, the IDS will support this Law, but I would like to ask for explanations on these two or three observations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32799	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council I'm going to propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 12th session agenda. Point, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Security Services Supervisory Council. Do we have a quorum? If you have the keys, could you identify yourself? I'm sorry, I'm asking you to count it, because there's something not here again. 84, we need a quorum. Therefore, the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President of the Security Services Supervisory Council. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much. In the name of, we continue with this agenda point. Proposal, final, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption. It is next to the club of the PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's nothing revolutionary about this text, that's what my predecessor said. And it's a good thing there's nothing revolutionary about it. What the Chinese philosopher says is, "I don't give us God to live in interesting times." If things develop like this and fix things, maybe one day they'll come to the level we expected in 2001 when the USKOK was founded. I want to believe and believe that at the time when the proposed and adopted establishment of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime was proposed, the government at the time did not have in mind any international pressures, nor the alignment with this and that, but simply the fact that we need it. And I believe that the law was passed with that intention that after 10 years of looking into the void, it would stand in the way of gangsters organized criminals, smugglers, drug traffickers and similar societies that have grown in our country. The law has been adopted with great expectations. We all remember how the public reacted, enthusiastically, here at last our boys, our Elliot Ness statue at the end of our Al Capone and similar. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. As the law changes today, it is partly harmonising with the real state of crime, or the development of crime. The criminal has obviously come up with new ideas, new ways to rob society and society must adapt to it, of course there is always one step behind those who invent systems of robbery. On the other hand, there are also certain parts that suggest that the ineffectiveness of the apparatus is trying not to sanction, but to compensate for additional norms. This Regulation shall enter into The law said that two interior ministry officials in calling a senior inspector were hired at the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. It just didn't work. No one, but no one in any explanation explained why it didn't work. If that's the law, what kind of organs, the repression of the state we have that don't adhere to the laws passed in this House? And now, instead of investigating who didn't respect the law and sanction it. What are we gonna do? Well, we'll change the law. We're gonna get these police officers off the list of USCOD employees, we're gonna introduce them in another article as advisers, we're gonna bring this thing down to the level of off-duty, so that's when it's not even mandatory. The problem of conflict between USKOK and the police is obviously a permanent problem. In the world, the problem was solved in a way that the police service, the extended hand of the State's Attorney's Office. Public Atorney in the United States has the right to simply hire police when he thinks it is necessary, especially a special state attorney who deals with such criminal acts. No, it's not the only conflict of ingenuity that arises in this law. The conflict of intelligence occurs between the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK. USKOK is namely a specialized State Attorney's Office which in the extreme instance can do very little in its own way and on its own. Namely, the director of USKOK is, at the rank of the election, an assistant state attorney. Already, that definition clearly speaks in which position USKOK is located. The inefficiencies of the apparatus are also seen through the simple fact that, in the light of the Law, some departments have simply failed to change. It's been four years, but the BOOK hasn't been able to run two suits. There's no reason why the BOOK couldn't do it. Was there a lack of money? Was there a lack of people? Was there a lack of goodwill? Anyway, BUSKOK didn't fulfill what the law says. The authorities of the repression, the supreme body of repression, did not comply with the law regarding his organization. These changes concerning the list of criminal offences that USCOK is in charge of at the club are considered to be good. It is good that things are defined as much as possible, it is good that they are innovated and will obviously be innovated and into future things that are happening in a criminal mile still aren't in there because there was just probably no time type of computer crime. But the process will obviously continue and the legislator will be obliged to monitor what is happening on the criminal market so that he can react in the way he reacted here. The proposer's explanation states that the reason for proposing such amendments and complementarity is now in line with international standards which the former European Integration Ministry and the Ministry of European Integration confirm that this proposal has been made, as well as with growing needs. Now, some things aren't quite clear here. The BOOK is a special state attorney's attorney for control, above all, of corruption. USKOK operates by reducing the number of criminal offences, corrupt crimes since 2002, reported from 2002 to 2003 by one thirty percent and making Croatia jump on the list of corrupt countries. Something's wrong with that. Something with that logic, something in that logic doesn't work. Either the international institutions that assess corruption in certain countries are wrong or our citizens and services who have given up their application because nothing is likely to happen. When you look at how many of these reported crimes are actually sanctioned, then it's pretty clear why the number is dropping. One of the changes proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law is also the change in the banking secret. The bank's secret is to USKOK an impregnable obstacle. From the simple personal experience and experience of my acquaintances and friends, I know that, for example, for the tax office, a bank secret is not an insurmountable obstacle. If you happen to forget to report a few hundred kunas that you got from the author's fee from somewhere they'll call you from the tax office of the lady and say sir you forgot to report it and you got it on there and that bank on that and that giro-account. Apparently, a bank secret is no obstacle to her. There's something in logic that doesn't work. Finally, I would like to refer to this point concerning Article 18(3) concerning the financing of USKOK. The budget of the Republic of Croatia this year provides for a slightly smaller funding than last year for the financing of USKOK and with each such change, the need for money is also growing because the need for employment is growing, the need for material resources is growing, for monitoring, for paying external co-workers like this and such. The budget's shrinking. Apparently, even the government doesn't mean what it says here in law. And one more thing. In Article 18(3), when it comes to financing point 3, it mentions some specific needs. And in the last discussion, I asked for an explanation and an explanation of what these particular needs are, who they belong to, what they are. I didn't get an explanation, he's not even in here today, so I'd like to ask you one more time. But all in all, we think that the proposal is the progress made in relation to the current situation and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32801	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that in 16 hours and 18 minutes, Article 207 has expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32802	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Assistant Minister! The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support these amendments and additions to the law, regardless of the remarks I am about to make here. In fact, I must say quite frankly what I said and for the first time when we talked about this law and on behalf of the Club myself, that the former government was not quite sure whether or not we want the corruption and organised crime control office but we simply decided that such an office should be established because this social evil has come to the conclusion that it must be established by a special state body. If I understand the government correctly, she actually wants three things to be achieved by this law. It goes to that field of organization of the office itself, goes after the acceptance of all international conventions signed or joined by the Republic of Croatia and goes to give increased powers to the office. As far as the Convention's right itself is concerned, I think it really should have been done, but there was no such rush and there was no such haste, and this law should have been amended, and we might have waited a little longer to make what we all want, and we expect a new law on criminal proceedings because our law on criminal proceedings is not good. It allows the criminal proceedings to be handled slowly. He allows it to come to antiquity. In addition, we think at the HSS Club that we should have intervened in the Penal Code especially because of the mistake that was being undermined when we passed the latest amendments to the Penal Code on the Non-Sension of Certain Crimes and also the sanctioning of certain things, some crimes directly dependent on the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crimes. In fact, when we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is quite certain that something must happen with this law, that it must be achieved by the maximum prescribed by criminal procedural legislation and that is. and his most important goal, so that no innocent man may be condemned and the guilty shall be punished in the process. I think it's first of all, and it seems to me that the government is doing just that, uh, it needs to intervene in the field of investigation. In fact, during the criminal proceedings, we conduct the evidence procedure twice, and we carry out the informal evidence procedure in the context of the so-called so-called procedure. investigational actions and what this means when limitation deadlines pending proceedings are inexorably ongoing. We therefore expect from the HSS Club that the Government will finally submit a proposal for the Code of Criminal Procedure and we believe that there was no hurry either because nothing would happen if we did not pass this Law amending the Office Act in the second half of this year. What I particularly want to stress is that, gentlemen, we have forgotten that the work of USKOK is primarily based on information that the Office is getting from citizens. I warned and now I warn that in law itself we sanctioned the criminal act of false reporting, and that we also did not protect the application. I mentioned last time that I was very interested in the information on how many convictions have been made in the Republic of Croatia on criminal offences of false application, and we are surprised why the Office has so many pending cases or why with certain cases? As regards the powers of the Office, it is obvious that these amendments to the law wish to equalise the powers that the Office had in relation to organised crime together with its powers or to be identical to that of corruption. That's what the Proposer does, and it does this bill, but one thing that bothers these laws. Namely, if I'm not mistaken, Mr Vice President, behind this point is the Law on Mandatory Relations, which, with the rest, provides general principles for compensation for damages. It is also very important for European countries to do so and make it necessary for such rules that clearly enter into fundamental human rights and freedoms to prescribe and compensate damages. That's necessary. And we're not gonna be the only ones who have it. Most European countries have special regulations in such offices, of course, where they exist. We think it should have been done in this regulation. What bothers USKOK's organisation continues to question whether USKOK is an independent state attorney's office or USKOK is a body of state's attorney's office. We think that it should have been more clearly defined in the law, and we suggested that when we first read the law, however, this was obviously not done. If you are looking well, it is not appropriate to enter the appearance of the seal into the law, and in this case it is done. I think it should have been done more skillfully by means of a sublegal act because I really have to admit that I have seen rare laws that prescribe what the seal of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime looks like. Article 6 is amended as follows: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. This is what we have often warned that such sensitive laws as amending the Penal Code should not be passed by an urgent procedure, so we have indeed experienced one terrible thing. We've prescribed a certain crime, forgotten to sanction it, and of course it's in its essence, that it's no longer a crime. Because there's no sanction for him. If I'm well aware of the statistics of the courts and the state's attorney's office, it seems to me that a certain time ago at the state's attorney's office in Varazdin just dropped a criminal application for that reason that I've just made. I can only think that such cases will end in courts. So there will either be a suspension or a reluctance because in its essence it is not a criminal offence. And that's what we're prescribing for Uskok to be in charge of. Thirdly, in nomotechnics, I suggest to the promoter that he does not write in the future, does not write the number of articles of other laws that he is in this case. It refers specifically to the Penal Code. This means that any future amendment to the Penal Code will have to change this one, and this regulation and it's not good. That's what I have to say when I write the rules, it's not good. What else is not good seems to me to be an article 18, yes, exactly. It is not good in this Law to mention terms such as: external associates. Witches aren't outside associates. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, they have an exact name and it would be good if the proponent were to use the terms of the Criminal Procedure Act in the future. In addition, the same observation to Article 18 of paragraph 2 appears to me precisely: Witness protection funds if they are not specifically set out in the Witness Protection Act will be prescribed, so they are prescribed by this Act. The witness protection law is a "leg specialis". He is a special law relating to witness protection, which through his system, through the mechanism that the Law offers, offers a complete witness protection programme. Before that, it defines who these protected witnesses are and, of course, talks about financing, about financing witness protection, and I think it is inappropriate to introduce such provisions into this Act. But what I want to say in the end, repeating that the Croatian Peasant Party will still support this Law. The fight against organised crime, the fight against corruption and the general fight against crime is not the fight against crime, but primarily the fight against all institutions of civil society against crime, and that is the catch. That is precisely why I have proposed that, with this Law or this Law, the Proposer should wait for all other regulations to be proposed, because that is the only way we will comply with the standards of our overall criminal legislation with the same European norms. That would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32803	Thank you. On behalf of the DC Club HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32804	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues in the course of this debate is, there is one question that has not been answered, which is actually who is to blame why Croatia is not effective in fighting corruption. It can't possibly be the last law or the additions that are now being offered, why it hasn't been carried out. The problem is certainly self-implementation because in many areas we have not been destitute in adequate legal solutions, but it has always been a problem in the exercise itself. Therefore, I expect from the current law, or from these amendments and additions that are now being offered here to be themselves those who will lead to a solution to the problem of corruption in Croatian society, I think it is another one of the self-deceptions that we impose on ourselves. In order to be able to implement such a law, it is necessary, in addition to quality people, in addition to a law that should be a good tool, that political will and the social environment, social awareness for implementation, implementation of this. Political will has already been expressed in the past law and in this Law. It means you're going to bring that tool, that law. However, when it comes to implementing this, it seems to me that the political will does not agree with what is set out here in this Law, and it does not seem to me that the social environment is always supporting one, one organised quality fight against corruption. We welcome everyone, every progress that goes in this regard, especially in creating a legislative environment and adopting these legal acts that should be like some initial chapel, with everything I mentioned above, to come up with a successful fight against corruption. We have recently, it seems to me that this is the fourth time we are actually discussing corruption in Parliament. We had a report we discussed. This is now the second reading of the same, additions to the law, and we had the United Nations Convention in the fight against corruption. If that counts for us to open up a wide front of the fight against corruption. God forbid that this happens later in practice, and here colleagues have already mentioned the problems that occur in practice. If we succeed in pushing corruption into, in these reserves, into quarantine from which it will not be able to attack the social tissue wider, we can consider that we have succeeded. Because little, throughout history, if you follow closely, no one has succeeded in rooting out corruption, but depends on those who have embarked on that fight, on their willingness, on their good organisation, it has been brought to a measure of tolerance and where it has been taking place for a while and when those social opportunities were created for its spread, it has actually been known to spread and so on. I would not like to mention, in this debate here, what are these reasons now, perhaps it would be good for this Parliament to really discuss honestly once what it is that is who does not allow us to deal with corruption because it in essence and raises questions about both our existence and society as a rich and as an effective state. A few words about the law itself. Since corruption had to be specialized in survival, it had to be metterfossed to seek out some new forms of transformation. And this is one legal solution that we have in these additions to the law we can consider one special law legitimate specialist. Which if we accept as a tool in our hands can bring results. This law should have responded to new forms of corruption, both in Croatia and in the world. The international link, i.e. the cross-border link between corruption and the corruption bearer, should be spoken. It seems to me that these changes and additions are going in this direction to give such a single solution. Additional powers were to be given to judicial authorities, tax authorities meant to all those who per definition play the first role in the fight against corruption. In that sense, we do if the Democratic Centre and the HSL support this law. But I say it's not always enough because every tool, and this one, too, can give its result if it's in the right hands. You all know that saying that every rifle in the hands of Mandrusic the Wolf will be murderous. But the question is I wonder if this rifle we have here now will it be murderous. Or it'll be an empty rifle. A few words would say about the danger of corruption itself. It seems to me that we as individuals and as a society are not aware of all the destructive actions of corruption itself. Which is why I don't know. But in our society it is announced that in our society there is an unpublished war, an inner society attacked by corruption itself. And that internal attack is particularly dangerous because he's hard to identify, only recognized by people who are specialists, who are in the area. And that's why corruption is in itself dangerous. Also corruption spells are always at first sight crimes without a victim. It's hard for you to find the victim. Why, because we're all victims as a society, as individuals, are victims of social relations. And in the end, as a victim, only society, or the state itself, appears there. God forbid it comes to that. Why is corruption still dangerous? In what way he is manifested by destructive actions. Under the rush of corruption and its actors, they're shooting at all those bonds that make up one society, and basically we're back in a state of uncertainty again, and the rules that have been adopted are no longer in force, we have one double personality. One double behavior in society. On the one hand, we have a practice that is corrupt and we have laws that prevent that kind of behavior. Clearly, this leads to destabilisation and uncertainty in society itself. If society is unstable, you have unstable individuals, and so that relationship goes on. Because that back to the state before the social contract I said that once before, that's what's dangerous. It brings us to a state of mutual suspicion, leads us to conflict, leads us to extinction. And in fact, that's how we re-inagurate the right to stronger. Why it's still dangerous and why we need people who specialize in such an area. At the same time, we are both victims and carriers of corruption. There are always those who are aware of its devastating dangers of corruption, as there are always those who view corruption as mild - tempered, who view it as something normal from chance, see it as a kind of folklore. I recently saw one movie on Croatian far-sighted people I don't know which of these three were. But I remembered the picture stayed in my head. In which the leading snake actor is an American soldier. A snake bit a soldier on the inside of his thumb. In one computerized animation on television, it is shown that this poison is actually spreading rapidly about the destruction of that man's tissue. Clearly as shown, the treatment procedure was ultimately effective but I was delighted with the treatment technique. Namely, the thumb was actually welded to the chest, in such a way it was saved to avoid total tissue decay with everything else that the doctors had taken. Why am I bringing this up here? In that picture, I found a similarity to corruption. Corruption is the snake of every society. Every social organism. Whose poison eats the tissue of society. Where that poison goes, there's no more healthy social tissue. Or it's actually hard to establish at extra, extra costs and the loss of social and personal energy. There are only separate parts and the only real link between these is a new dose of bribery and corruption. And in the end, I'd say two more three words about the very symptoms of corruption. I'll try to remind you of yesterday's picture that we could see on TV last night as well as today in the daily press. A Rijeka case where a developed Croatian defender because of the land he bought some time ago sought his justice allegedly, is a spatial plan of that land he bought included as part of a green belt in Rijeka. I immediately suspected some corrupt act. If a man bought and after a while changed purpose why it was changed. I immediately ask the question of this picture to show how corruption works. I don't know if there was any corruption here, but I doubt her presence. Because corruption kills all hope. And it leads to universal mistrust and doubt each and every man loses his dignity, seems powerless, poor, and doesn't really need anyone. The bigger our troubles, the more people will in one way try to seek justice to correct the wrong "drin" and that's what's extremely dangerous because when a man faces corruption if the state and its organs are not effective, then he takes justice into his own hands then I have what we had yesterday in Rijeka. I hope, that is, I believe that these legal solutions offered here are going in the opposite direction to create a healthy organization in society of healthy tissue. Which should get results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32805	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual discussion. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative, Rade Ivas, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32806	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on the repression of corruption of organised crime, which has experienced some minor changes in relation to the first reading. Respecting what was said in the debate, he also noted a number of remarks made during the debate on the Committee on Justice and on the Committee on Legislatives. Otherwise, in 2001, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime, in order to combat corruption effectively. In this law, the Republic of Croatia has taken over fundamental institutions between international conventions such as precise and comprehensive incrimination of participation in an organised criminal group, as well as money laundering for the benefit of criminal offences, the regulation of special anti-corruption measures, insurance and confiscation and temporary confiscation of benefits from the criminal offences of organised crime and the establishment of special competent courts and repressive bodies to combat corruption of organised crime. In particular, the Republic of Croatia is fulfilling the provisions of Article 10. The United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime established the criminal liability of legal persons by the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes since September 2003. The functioning of the office itself as a special state attorney's office and normative law solutions are based on the yawning of repression, educational and preventive roles of USKOK in relation to the phenomenon of corruption and also organised crime. How much and how the office has worked so far in this period we can see from the data. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal code was reported by 244 persons. Of the total number of persons reported, 48 were reported to be group organizers, 176 were members of such a group, and only 4 were reported as organizers of the Crime Organization and 16 as members of these criminal organisations. In 2003, 229 persons were reported in the same article. Out of the total number, 58 people were reported to have been group organizers, 169 reported to have been members of such groups, and only two were organised by criminal organisations. The office is certainly the most important part of the anti-corruption system and this final USKOK law, which is before us, will certainly affect the efficient functioning of the office. But in order for it to be fully efficient, it will have to be strengthened both human and better equipped. The reasons for this application are certain legal questions which have arisen during this period of application of this law. And these were the question of the office's work and jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the courts, the office's organisation, the issue of co-operation with the police, the question of the office's authority in the investigation process. The decision of the Supreme Court to take a legal position concerning the jurisdiction of the office, namely this legal position, provides that there is an apparent link between Article 333. The criminal law and the provisions on criminal offences in which a criminal offence in the group and the criminal organisation has been described as a qualitative circumstance. With this attitude, the Supreme Court has denied the office the possibility of acting in some criminal acts of organised crime. This position also places the office in a position that, during the pre-executive procedure for those offences, it cannot require the implementation and specific expressive development. It was also necessary to consider the current organisation of the office. In time since the adoption of the USKOK Act, Croatia has accessed key multilateral international legal instruments containing additional provisions regarding the effective prevention of corruption and the fight against organised crime. The law also needed to build on a more precise regulatory relationship between the state's attorney and police authorities in the event of a reasonable suspicion that the criminal offence of organised crime as well as the recognition of the regulatory relations between the police authorities and the offices and other state's attorneys' offices and bodies had been committed. The current investigation procedure for the offences of organised crime has been conducted in accordance with the general provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the specific provisions of the USKOK Act. In practice, these provisions proved to be good except for the data collection which represented a bank secret. In accordance with Article 99 of Regulation (EU) No The law on banks is prescribed to keep a bank secret unless there's a written order from the office. This provision of the Bank Act prevented the urgent implementation of data on bank accounts and transactions when representing a bank secret. This has been resolved, namely the amendments to this Act, in Article 42a where it is prescribed, in detail the procedure in relation to the data on suspicious bank accounts transactions in such a way that the bank is obliged to supply the requested information in the request of the office within the time limit of a certain law. This Final Bill proposal compared to first reading, as I said, has experienced some changes, respecting certain remarks and suggestions and opinions from the debate. Thus, in the provision of Article 21b, new criminal acts, child pornography on the computer system or network, integrity and availability of computer data, programmes and systems, computer counterfeiting, computer fraud, heavy theft, and compliance with the provisions of the law amending and supplementing the Penal Code are complemented. It also amended the provision of Article 21d in such a way that the Office may require the supervision of the business of various entities and take certain actions in relation to them not only to the tax administration but also to other competent administrative organisations in the form of the Ministry of Finance which exercise supervision and control over a particular type of activity and business, but not to be regulated in which and in what procedure it will be carried out. I said that it is good that the law resolves the issue of banking secrecy, Article 42a and Article 42b also well regulated the question that an undercover investigator as an official can be questioned as a witness. But it might be good to regulate the issue of videos in a clear way in this article, what about them, and whether they can be used in the investigation process. And not to be longer, I finally believe that these amendments and additions create the conditions for the office to be able to work successfully and smoothly, that these amendments and additions to the USKOK Act are in line with the legal acts of the Council of Europe and the legal gains of the European Union and that it should be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32807	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Proposer's representative, ladies and gentlemen. Namely, what led me to apply for a debate on the Amendment Laws and Supplements of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Act? Did circumstances change, did the genealogy of this body change today compared to 2001? I don't think so. And are the proposed changes and additions enough for us to successfully counter organised crime? I don't think so. Is it, are the changes positive? They did. But colleagues and colleagues, I think the fight against organised crime requires a national consensus, a political national consensus and a lot of trust in the institution that we are talking about today as well as a lot of trust in people who should do the task of USKOK. They are primarily defenders, social defenders of law and the rule of law in peace. Do they have the tools to do so and have they received political consensus from all political parties in Croatia? I don't think so. If that's how we look at it, then the position of the BOOK isn't satisfactory. Namely, this law continues to predict de facto and deiure USKOK is part of the State's Attorney's Office only specialised. Even the law provides for a conflict between the two institutions. If the State's Attorney's Office thinks it's not about organised crime, it's going to give that assessment to the USKOK. Therefore, we have not reached a consensus on how to counter organised crime. This should be added to the fact that the Director of USKOK has remained to be appointed a state attorney. I agree, it doesn't matter if we give them confidence and give them the tools. Then we didn't even have to start the BOOK that we wanted to give full support to the people in the State's Attorney's Office. What is the further relationship in which the relationship, the social relationship in which USKOK operates, is how do courts work? Will the measures proposed by the BOOK or by the proposals proposed by the BUSKOK courts be dealt with without delay? What is the police's attitude towards USKOK if we in law say that USKOK can have two police or hire as advisers at least two officials who have acquired the calling of an independent police inspector and they should coordinate their relationship with the police. Is that the power of the Jumper? I don't think so. Some shift really feels like a bank secret, but it should never have been a problem until now if we know we have an office to stop money laundering. If we had a coordinated action, then it really shouldn't be a problem. What is the relationship between the government and USKOK, and best citizens know about the Bago Granic case. This law doesn't change anything. If we still ask the question of providing material, i.e. financial resources for USKOK, which is no more generous than it is according to ordinary crime and crime, then we can say that again that society is not ready, it is not ready for consensus in the fight against organised crime. I look at these things like that, but for the sake of truth, this is a shift, an improvement in the position of the BOOK. Because of that, of course, I will vote to pass this law, but it is not enough for colleagues and colleagues to fight organised crime successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32809	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, five minutes Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32810	Mr. Palias, colleagues and colleagues. From the debate, you certainly felt that the club of representatives supported this law and that it felt that one step forward in establishing what kind of system this state should be in countering organised crime corruption. But you also heard not only from SDP MPs but from other MPs, that perhaps more could be done. I wouldn't go into that detail right now, so maybe I won't take all these five minutes, but I'll take the opportunity to point out an important fact that we need to be aware of. First, it seems to all of us not to know that corruption is the cancer of every society and probably our society. Secondly, when measures are to be implemented in the fight against corruption, we plan and predict in laws, we must be aware that the right and life is a living organism that is changing daily, and it seems to me that the process of adapting legislation and seeking the best solutions is one and perhaps even the work of SIZIF for reasons why new forms of crime are constantly emerging to which the answer should be found. However, what I would particularly like to point out is the fact that BUSKOK itself will not solve the problem until the problem of the judiciary as a whole is solved. USKOK is one of the instruments that must ultimately be a lever that will allow the judiciary to solve certain cases. Some times we may also have a false perception of the judicial relationship to some of the problems related to the pursuit of organised crime corruption, and I think that one of the key problems is the question of the acceptability of certain evidence in the process. We are witnessing that through some decisions and through principle opinions the Supreme Court introduced a practice that is relatively new to us and that it excluded from the circle of permitted evidence something that we were both in theory and in practice over many years thought was unquestionable. At this point, I wouldn't compromise with the Supreme Court on the vindication of such decisions. After all, the Supreme Court judges, and the rest of us can criticise, but we know whose is the last. I would like to say that the legislator, in addition to listening to the forms of crime, must listen to and how the judiciary breathes on the acceptability of certain evidence and, of course, if it is necessary to react to certain evidence rules if we so wish, so as to reduce and reduce such obstructions in terms of deliberate prevention rather than in terms of some professional points that may make it difficult to pursue organised crime, reduce and reduce. It seems to me that one of the shortcomings in this proposal is that some of the latest decisions and views of the Supreme Court have not been adopted in the legislation, and perhaps those measures that would adapt to the persecution of organised crime have not been heard, so here, finally, by supporting the final proposal of the law, I am sure that, in some time, we will find ourselves again in line with new flows of fight against organised crime and I suggest that in this next phase, we take account of the situation and the problems that arise from the point of view of the acceptability of the evidence that the judiciary has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32811	Thank you very much. With this point on the agenda, we've exhausted the reported ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32812	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 189. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments to these 12 were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline, and we will, in accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedures vote on them. First we vote whether or not we will discuss them and vote, please engage. You can vote. I'll get you a score. I find that with 80 votes for, 10 abstentions, 12 against being accepted to debate and vote on amendments submitted by the government after the deadline. We're going in line for the amendments. Amendment 1. Explain State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32813	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendment 1. Actually, the text is nomotechnically edited because it is not mentioned in the article at the beginning, but first only by law, and then the article that changes and complements it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32814	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment One, please engage. You can vote. Score. 80 for, 13 abstentions, 10 against, Amendment One accepted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32815	Amendment 2, which amends Article 14, concerns the powers of the department to prevent corruption and public relations. In fact, it sets out in a clearer way why the employees of this department can report to the public about their work as well as point 3. It changes in fact that, when the department is reporting to the public, it does not report cases of work, but of the observed occurrences of corruption, so...the forms of crime, and not of certain cases that are under way. So, in fact, as a result of the debate in the Parliament and the committees, it is more clearly determined what is part of that department.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32816	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government. Please engage. We can vote. Score. 80 for, 16 abstentions, 11 against, Amendment 2 adopted. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32817	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here are actually avoiding Amendment 3. avoids a certain overlap. This text of the amending and supplementing law establishes a new department for international co-operation and joint investigations in whose jurisdiction and cooperation with the competent authorities of other countries and international organisations, and as this is by mistake also in the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Department, hence, the existing departments are hereby deleted by this amendment by overlapping the competence of individual departments of the Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32818	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Government. Please engage. We can vote. Score. With 85 for, 9 abstentions, 11 against Amendment 3. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32819	Amendment 4 concerns the competence of the department for international co-operation and joint investigation. All amendments proposed by the amendment are amendments which, in a linguistic legal and nomotechnical sense, are in fact more detailed and clearer in determining the competences of that department. And it synchronises... I apologize, wordologically when it is in line with the provisions of other laws such as the Law on the conclusion and resolution of international contracts and the Law on the establishment and detachment of ministries. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32820	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 4. Government. Please engage. You can vote. Score. 78 for, 13 abstentions, 15 against Amendment 4. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32821	Amendments 5. is amended in Article 6 which otherwise amends Article 21, and in fact it is a nomotechnical amendment, since it is correctly pre-recipient before the short name of the individual law to indicate all numbers of the National Journals in which it has been published or amended, which makes it the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32822	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Please engage. We can vote. Score. With 80 for, 11 abstentions and 14 against, Amendment 5 was adopted. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32823	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment shall, firstly, be added to Article 21a. indicates that not only a detour, but also that some legal persons do not have a part of the circle, but that they do certain tasks, so it is added to this amendment, so it is clearly indicated that this applies to some persons who do business do not have a part of the circle. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is unnecessary, for example, to list certain criminal offences that have indications of organised crime when it is known exactly what crimes are, so it is deleted as unnecessary. And in Article 21c. In fact, it is clearly indicated that all criminal offences do not have the characteristics of organised crime, so they do not need to take... actions, so this is in this way harmonised in this Article 21c. While in articles 21d. And 21st. Indeed, nothing is merely a nomotechnical language, and therefore nothing is fundamentally changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32824	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32825	Mr. President, in his first reading, the Legislative Committee has told all these things to the government. The government gave a lecture to us as the Croatian Parliament or the Ministry as to how the most valuable experts did it, and you see what is happening now. You see what is happening, and this is not the first case that happens in this way, and therefore I ask that future laws where the government, or individual ministries, is giving a lecture to the Croatian Parliament, means to the Legislator's Committee to put such laws back in place and not to perform this play for the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32826	I am voting on Amendment 6. Please come in. You can vote. The result? Amendment 6 adopted with 70 for, 11 abstentions and 17 against. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32827	Amendment 7 to Article 8 of the Code on Criminal Procedure replaces the word "the CAP", so the statement of the text is arranged in accordance with the rules of the technique.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32828	The truth is, it could have been arranged by the time he came in the final version. Come on, it's such a nomotechnic thing, but they're unnecessarily burdening the work of the Parliament. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 7. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 7. You can vote. The result? An amendment adopted by 74 for, 7 abstentions and 17 against. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32829	Amendment 8, Mr. President and the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the words "this Council" are replaced by the words "the councils of this article", and the words "the decision... "replaces the words "experience." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, due to the government's apology, there is still an amendment that regulates language and nomotechnically.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32830	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 8. Please come in. You can vote. The result? 73 for, 10 abstentions, 18 against. The amendment has been passed. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32831	Amendment 9 is corrected in Article 13 of the wrong call for articles, to the items, to apologize, to Articles 1 and 2 instead of paragraphs 2 and 3 of that Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32832	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 9. You can vote. The result? I find that with 72 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 17 against adoption and this amendment. Dear Secretary of State, and the Office of Law and your ministry should not allow such mistakes. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32833	In Article 22(3), (4) and (5), the amendment provides for the removal of the possible uncertainty of the doubt in practice, such as the question of the start of the period of application of the decision of the investigating judge and the delivery of the decision of the investigating judge or of the board of directors. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32834	Well, you can't hear it for three reasons. There's one reason there's a lot of jam in the hall. The third reason is because the secretary of state speaks silently. The third we hear the weaker we hear. A little louder, please. And please a little more peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32835	I'll do my best, Mr. President. Shall I repeat my argument on Article 10, or can we vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32836	You don't have to. Please vote Amendment 10. You can vote. The result? 72 votes in favour, 10 abstentions, 16 against amendment 10. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32837	Amendment 11 sets a deadline within which the Minister of the Interior is obliged to adopt the sublaws laid down in this law. It's a three-month deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32838	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's get involved, vote. You can vote. The result? 78 for nine abstentions, 14 against. Amendment 11. And last amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32839	Amendment 12, which refers to the resolution of the subject-matter under way, has been reformed in a way that is more unambiguously correct on the one hand and on the other hand will avoid possible doubts and interpretations in practice, which is certainly important in this type of case.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32840	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the 12th amendment of the Government. Please come in. You can vote. The result? And amendment 12 accepted by 78 for, 6 abstentions, 17 against. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that with 95 votes for, 5 abstentions and 8 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32842	We would now move to item four of the consolidated agenda, but I must inform you that, because there has been no observations here, which is why there is no Minister of State Ms. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. It is held at a meeting of the National Security Council with the Presidents of the Republic and the Government. But the secretary of state isn't here, it seems to me, or I don't know, something like that. And as this session was expected to end around 17 hours, and we've exhausted the agenda we can move to the fourth item of the agenda. Final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations, and the Minister may be involved in the debate when she comes. He can get involved in the debate anyway. Unfortunately, only a secretary or secretary of state can do so here in front of the Parliament. ... About what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32843	Let me just say, it's about such an important law. It doesn't matter now, it would be important to be either a secretary or a minister, but it's very important. It's a law that's been passed for almost 10 years, it's got a thousand and some articles. He's interesting to all citizens. There is no citizen who does not enter into one form of contractual relations during his life and would be a real shame not to, where there is no public access, where the public cannot be introduced to such an important and important law, and also to a good law, that it is not, then to delay for another appropriate time when, behold, the public in one appropriate way and also through television transmission can be introduced to the features of this Law. So is the professional public, let alone the general public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32844	I agree with you that this is important, however, we have also heard countless remarks about the postponement of certain points of the agenda, the skipping of the agenda points, and it is difficult for us to coordinate all that the public should hear, which might not be important to hear the public. It's very relative. And now I don't really know how to do it in this case. We have in the procedure of the Proposed Amendment of the Rules of Procedure in which we have in some way accepted that there are no changes in order except by certain exceptions provided for in the Rules of Procedure. ... I agree, but here we could go, say, to the next item of the agenda, and the proposer is gone again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And we need to find a mechanism where Parliament won't be in this way actually held as some kind of, the possibilities of executive power, the proposer of any, the board, and so on. That's why we're changing the Rules of Procedure in this respect so that there won't actually be prisoners of any such lack of justification or injustice or such, is there? So, let's close the session at 5:00, I think it's too soon. So I expect Mrs. Secretary to show up any minute now. We'll get started. If we don't finish, we'll continue in the morning, the public will be introduced in one way or another. I suggest we move to the fourth item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations, Second Reading, P.Z.E., No. 226. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. So it's not 189 but 226. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. You received the report at the session. If he wants a representative, he wants a representative, but he's gone. The committee's reporters, will they? On behalf of the Committee on Justice, Mr. President of the Committee, Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32845	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government. At the 21st session held on 23 February 2005, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 3 February 2005. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Finally, the applicant's representative referred to the differences between the proposal for a law and the final proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, noting that the reasons for not accepting certain proposals were contained in the basis of the final proposal. In the debate, the Committee members supported the Final Proposal, noting that it was a quality law in the area of mandatory relations. On the text of the final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations, they made certain comments and proposals. With regard to the effect of integrity and piety, it should be clearly pointed out that the contracts are worthless, that zero contracts are annulled and the killings are refuted. What is not apparent from the proposed provisions. Sales contracts should be extended to specific forms of purchase such as purchases in subscription and sales by sight. It is necessary to lay down provisions on the Leasing Treaty because this type of contract has been revived in practice, and therefore the arguments of the Working Group on Law Making that this type of contract is still developing in practice fostering legal uncertainty. It is necessary to review the provision of Article 260. A law which determines that the written offer and acceptance of the offer under certain conditions obliges even though they are not signed by an authorised person because it increases the possibility of abuse, and hence the existence of criminal offences. In view of the creation of this Act, the creation of this Law has been going on for years and has passed a certain period since the first reading of the Law, it is suggested that the proposing representative check once again the compliance with the acquiss and directives of the European Union. In his final address, the applicant's representative further explained the interest-related legal provisions and pointed out that the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations is in line with the legal gains of the European Union and the acts of the Council of Europe, by a statement by the authorised persons of the former European Ministry of Integration. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32846	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Department of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as it may have been later when we discussed the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, then we did so in this Croatian Assembly somewhere around 20:30 in the evening. And here, this time something earlier, but still far from the public presence, so no one alive, our professional public, judges, lawyers who needed to apply this Law, had any idea that it was passed. Thus, the Law on Mandatory Relations passed the first reading. Here, today, this late, relatively late, isn't so late but there's no transmission so there won't be adequate getting to know the media either, because then they're already doing this, but tomorrow's editions are over, tomorrow's news is news. And so this significant and important act of our country, as it is for every country of first-rate importance, is brought here without the eyes of the public. Perhaps less evil and less injustice has been done to the Ministry itself who has been doing this proposal for years to a working group that is made up of excellent theorists and practitioners, but it is unfortunate that I repeat that there is no person here who has no Croatian citizen who during his life does not meet some form that enters life in compulsory relations. We here knew how to discuss the amendments to the law under impact, here this morning we discussed technical laws so where the Minister of Labour and Social Care is changing, whether it is within the authority of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. I think it would be time and I'll spend a few of these sentences, it would be a natural agreement, and we don't need a Rules of Procedure to know what's important and what's most important, and I think it's for every country, and so it's assessed by the committees and the Justice Committee, and the legislation and the constitution that this is one of the first-rate importance for each country, and so our country, along with the Constitution, along with the Criminal Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prosecution of Law, is therefore not an amendment, but a whole new law on mandatory relations is indeed a matter of first-rate importance for one country. This Law has more than 1000 articles and finally all contracts have been collected, which has not been the case so far, in the general part it is almost difficult to find one grudge other than, of course, this section of the other which speaks of contractual interest. Finally, in an unambiguous manner, it is stated in Article 27 that the current terming of the zero contract provision provides for a relationship that, when interest is paid, interest will start to flow if they are not paid, the term prohibits the negotiation and billing of interest on interest. Of course, when it comes to contractual interest, it is in the section, while in tight interest it is not said in such a way. And I think that this is one of the remarks, if we still see in the transitional and final provisions that it is these very provisions relating to interest that delay their application for another 2 years after the entry into force, and it will take effect only after 6 months, that we have, as appropriate, one appropriate vacatio legion then another 2 years to enter these provisions. It's obvious that the banking lobby, one of the high forces within our country, is beyond the reach of anyone. The great hope of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the entire Government, and we have passed this Law, to our citizens who are just with these ruthless banking interests wrapped in black, has provided a law on interest, but the question arises at all, I was interested, no one is livingly applying it, the question is whether an interest rate committee has been formed because this committee had to adopt exactly the height of the tightened interest, and then, according to that account, as provided for by that Law, it should also be accounted for. Of course, all the deadlines have passed when sublegal acts were to be passed but the public almost knows nothing about it, but he knows very well daily in practice that this law does not apply at all. Of course, the joy of bankers who when they appear in the role of debtors then complain about the same interest that so mercilessly accounts for the citizens. And how to take away the impression that a very good legal text is being ruined because the very most important provisions of those most interested in the citizens will not be possible in such a short time but only after two and a half years and if this Law is adopted, this final proposal unless it goes into third reading because even such votes were on the board. So two and a half years. But why am I wasting special time on this one because almost other remarks except for one that I will point out are hardly relevant. But as the state, as the government must finally resist this banking lobby that has no borders and no wave. The Croatian Parliament was also written by the Croatian Banks Association which, of course, protects its interests but to the extent that it objectes to the adoption of this Act and certain provisions because, please, a nice change of any proposed institute would lead to the need to avoid any existing forms of contract, general terms of business and acts of the bank. So a few hundred kunas would lose such a kind of a bank and who would ask our citizens in these unsettled deals still, who would ask citizens when different names of institutions change and how damaged they are. But she also came across the happiness of an association that wants to protect citizens and is talking about exactly this one huge problem that banks have over the government that they have in our society at all. So it says that these prices of banking services are different only in comparison with Croatia and Switzerland from 45 to 90 times higher, and of course this association calls it nothing more than a robbery. This is all the reason why we can all seriously imagine ourselves here, the argument given by the Government why it does not accept these remarks that have gone from many clubs, just referring to the delaying application of precisely these provisions relating to contract regulation simply is not sustainable and is not rational. Therefore, here I appeal to all clubs that just if the government had serious interest and serious intention, the question of the credibility of the Government is again raised, that it is truly resolute to implement what it says and it was at first, the great hopes were that the government would finally end up with these interest rates, the interest rates of interest of interest for every ordinary citizen when he borrows money to another, but for the banks it is not worth it to be their business tactics, and not to call it a real name as there are interest rates of interest in the country, and also for the banks, it is an unimaginable notion for us to have the bank to answer for interest rates. That's why in our legal system, only an individual was responsible for our courts. It's a shame that there are two serious regrets that we don't have a problem here, something that every almost average family meets is a lease agreement and continues to be affected by banks again. Banks here whine, Croatian bank association why no accreditations, bank guarantees, bank cash deposits are resolved, is that because it is in favour of bank business security. And later, the return of their fixed funds. But they didn't look back, but it's sad because there's no other explanation, but that the banking lobby has had an impact on the government because there isn't, because here several clubs of various political options have said that it's a real shame and they're surprised, why haven't there been a settlement of the lease agreement? The explanation given by the government simply does not stand. That it's just a contract that's coming together. So what about the contracts then? And that they can be solved by general, this general part of the existing, or this Law that has come into force. I don't think that's one rational explanation. The Leasing Treaty, we know it here most often as a purchase of a mobile vehicle. But it's so widespread out there and there's no doubt that he's going to spread very quickly here and here and on buying other moving things, real estate in the world, everywhere, young married couples, young families buying all the household supplies, all the household equipment just by virtue of the lease agreement. And we've solved old contracts here, and it's good that they're in this law even a life support contract, a life support contract, so he's a little more recent. But contracts of old and old, which are rarely used. But it's a good thing they're here, but then it's a shame it didn't go to meet a modernity. But for what? So there's no excuse, but to make banks do what they want, so that people who are there are too happy to come to any loan send their own terms, beyond any legal regulation. Here, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this Act, but with this serious remark that the question of the lease agreement and the postponement of this special interest section has no justification, and thus I say the Government is once again untrustworthy in the eyes of the public, who are promised, the Government has passed a Law that is not applicable at all, and now the question of the relationship of these two laws, which still solves at least in an unequivocal manner the contractual interest where, in the words of the ban on interest, there will be nothing again, or for a long period, and 2.5 years you will have to admit that it is too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32848	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32849	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Justice Department. In its first reading, the HSP club supported the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations, with the fact that, like all other clubs, we have made a lot of remarks on the well-intentioned in the sense that solutions are complete and effective solutions. But at the HSP Club, we were surprised by the fact that the government, either for all of us, or for all of us, or for the Ministry of Justice, taught a lesson about how it could not accept a single remark from the clubs, and the remarks were much, the remarks were well-intentioned, with the exception that a group of the most valuable experts in the country did so and that we as advocates are such an answer, that we as advocates have something to anger and interfere in that part. That's one such answer, and then I suggested on the Legislative Committee, so give the Justice Department the authority to just make those regulations, you see that we don't know anything about it. And now that, I'm not saying, even the HSP Club says that the draft laws were not made by experts, they were working. It's obvious that this law has been done since the year '95. But what happened here. What happened was that experts do individual parts. And now these individual parts were to be collected and given a nice frosting, that is, what the chef would say: "Imprem." And it wasn't made. And that's why we got good individual parts, but the whole thing's bad. The whole thing's bad, I'll tell you later why the whole thing's bad. And that's why the HSP Club is asking for this law to go into third reading. There's no reason to bring it today, because there's no difference between the first and second readings. The truth in the late night spirit we discussed then the 7th, I think it was December last year, and that's what we're doing today. But it is a law that regulates the rules of conduct in the field of civil and legal relations and everything that is important and that people meet every day in practice. And now that I say it's a bad buildup, I'll tell you right away. Obviously, it is necessary in general provisions to give a definition, or concept, of what is considered to be within the meaning of this law. In fact, you will see how this is the fact that people have been doing individual special chapters, so you will see that in one part means mixing things, talking about commercial contracts, while in the other part talking about contracts on the transport of goods and services, although these are essentially the same contracts. And now in general it's said like this, in a special one, it's said like this, another time like that. And for that reason, so you just take and say the parts that are unarranged, let's say once you say responsibility for damage, the second time you say liability damage, the third time you say what is owed. So it's actually about responsibility for damages, damage responsibility, obligation to compensate for damages. Then we do, the object is the object of the act, the object of the obligation, the object of the obligation, what is owed. Therefore, the court may speak in court when it thinks, the court will not pay attention, the court will determine with regard, if it finds out, the court will bear in mind, the court will determine compensation, the court may determine compensation, and so on. So these things are already, where it's visible that it's unequal, that it's not made that finish and that it's known exactly how and how to act. Now we come to those things in one part she said and Mrs. Ingrid, that we miss the essential parts that we should be, and that's the lease contract, it's gone, it says it's not the time, it's the time, we know that the lease contract, we suggested and that privatisation goes to Leasing, so the meaning of yours is when you finally pay. Then there's no factoring, frasching, documentary accreditation, and professional stuff that's supposed to be in this law. You also miss the whole chapter on how and how to secure payment. Therefore, there are a lot of these indeterminateities and missing parts, and because of that, if we vote, we cannot vote in this form. We got the material back relatively late. The Legislative Committee itself, when faced with this, was essentially to submit at least one 50 amendments. And the most logical solution for us is that this Law goes into third reading, to bring it into line and act as a whole. Because if we pass the Law, it will not be possible to apply in the way we expect, I think that the deadline is somewhere in October that everything should be harmonised and applied according to the European Union directives and everything else. And that is why I am pleading that we are also demoting for the third reading of this Law. Now I'm going to do the things we've said for the first time again. Let us first refer to Article 12(3), which is the application of customs and practices. There is a dangerous provision for us by which customs are applied, so if they are contrary to dissent regulations. It is still possible to say that in Croatia we do not have such express special customs. We do, but we don't have any special customs. Furthermore, in Article 17(5), this is said when legal capacity is acquired. And then we suggest and think today that it is best to say that the legal person acquires the legal capacity on the day of his enrolment in the corresponding register. So to determine exactly when he acquires rather than what according to special regulations. Furthermore, Article 20 refers to the creation of an obligation. We believe that it should be stressed, that is, paragraph 1, obligations can arise not only from what is said on the basis of a decision by a state or arbitration court or other bodies of the state authority. In Article 26, this is the rate of contractual interest. Here we need to say that we agree with this, with the view that it is unnecessary to distinguish between whether the speech party is a trader or a person of public law. I think we should think about it in this part, and I especially don't support this as well as the SDP Club that this part of the application is delayed in two years and we know what our situation is and what the banks are doing to Croatian citizens and what situations are leading them to. It is further important to state the article 34 which speaks of the duration of the choice right, paragraph 2. It is necessary to specify what is the appropriate time limit after which the choice right passes to the debtor, i.e. the precise determination. Article 69(1), point (b) of the first subparagraph, is replaced by the following: We think the legal action of the debtors should be refuted by a lawsuit and not by this act of complaint. Article 70 is the effect of refuting behind the word "seizure" should be added to the words "insect" because the interface can also be contained there. Article 71 speaks of the time limit for filing an action, it is necessary to specify a subjective and objective period. It means there wouldn't be legal gaps. These are the things that matter in practice, in implementation. Article 214 may be applied for a reduction in the obligation, although the obligation is outdated, we know, the question is whether it will succeed in seeing paragraph 3 in the same article. So they don't match. Article 225 should be specified precisely when the expiry of the limitation period begins. We know there's a lot of problems in practice right in the courtroom. Article 230(1) should specify the age of knowledge of the damage and the person who has done the damage. And now we come to that part of article 586 that talks about life support contracts. We know what our situation is, that people are wrong. And you haven't been able to determine exactly that part at all. We know that poor people cheat on these life support contracts, that they're left with nothing, and that's where you haven't been able to react at all. It's a code! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How to prescribe? The prescribed contract which are components means to determine that what is done now in practice, which can be the subject, as well as the components, would be disabled. It's already going to be done a lot more. So we think that we have to be responsible for the Law on Mandatory Relations, or in the end, what's happened since 1995, and it looks like something that's been going on so long every day is getting worse and worse. So make that final step and effort. Make an editorial of the entire text, coordinate the entire text, create a term, place these missing contracts and which are important for mandatory relations in Croatia from the lease of all other contracts and only then will we be able to vote for something like that from the HSP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32850	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! It is also about a legislative proposal that weighs both in kilograms and in content and in importance for every Croatian citizen. That's why I think it's totally inappropriate for us to talk about such an act at the end of our hours in a hurry in front of a half-empty booth and no TV cameras. It's as if we were talking about the Constitution that way. I don't think anyone would have thought of that. But it's a huge deal, that's obvious. A job done for ten years, which they did as the Ministry's Committee on Legislatives said, prominent experts, which is obviously true and a job that lacks a final step. It is a compilation of texts, smart texts, good texts, texts that suit their intentions in every way. However, there is no final step. The final step would already be seen in the fact that there is a list of concepts, that famous term. If someone had put all these contents together and viewed them as a whole, they would have seen that the same concepts in different places mean different things, different concepts in different places mean the same things. So none of them made a complete statement out of one of them. Such a concept in the beginning would make it easier to find and reduce ambiguity. In our first reading, we asked for such concepts and content because there was no content in the first reading. The content appeared in the second reading and is really important for finding out in the bill and especially because there has been renumberation and more things are not in the places where they were before and no one can find them alive unless there is no content. But what's there is a legal proposal ahead of us. I think it's important enough and I agree with Agent Kovacevic. I think it's important enough and not done enough to make a third reading useful for both the promoter and this Assembly and for the complete, for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The reasons for the adoption are some innovations in practice, so some new legal forms have emerged, some new contracts that were not before. But the lease agreement is, in the world, buying furniture, buying houses, buying home appliances and not just cars like us. Everything's being bought on the lysing. That contract isn't in there with an explanation that it hasn't yet come to life in our practice, I think that kind of formulation was used inside. This is what came to life in practice, but it obviously did not come to life in the head of the legislator. What has been done extremely well in this bill and should also be highlighted is defined in Article 19 of the right of personality both physically and legally. It should be commended for this intention and finally and for its very definition of making it easier to get along in all legal relations between legal and physical entities. Article 26 deals with contractual interest which cannot be more than legal tightening interest, however, the provision does not concern relations between traders. I don't think it's funny what that means right now. So, two merchants can arrange for interest whatever they want, what kind of foreign pasture they can impose on the other side, regardless of any normal limits, on some if you want the usual treatment between legal entities. In Article 27, anatocysm i.e. interest on interest is strictly prohibited by law, so that provision is equal to that provision on interest laws. However, this concerns non-deposit ratios. So, deposits will still be able to account for interest on interest. Some things weren't clear to me in my first reading, I don't understand them today. One of them is in Article 251 which speaks of a lack of intention to conclude the contract as a criterion for, to terminate the contract. I don't understand how that lack of intent will prove itself and prove itself. I think it's completely inconclusive in practice, and that's, that's, that's, that's a statement. A similar situation is discussed in Article 282 of the misunderstanding. The misunderstanding is if they get closer not to explain the same category as anyone can define according to their own will. It seems to me that there may be, in practice, disagreements, problems, different decisions in similar cases and so on. Articles 342 and 349 define the damage and the way, in fact, the treatment of the debtor's harmful actions towards the believer. What seems to me to be missing here, and I haven't found it anywhere in, in law, the bill of law is the moment when the damage is calculated. In practice, we have a lot of cases that, especially insurance companies, have been making it difficult to pay damages inappropriately for years, which means that if you have a car accident with total damage, you need to pay 50 thousand values for your car. The process is getting harder. Your car is being amortised. By the time a court ruling is passed, that depreciation eats 10.20%, 30% of the value of that car. And your damage is calculated from the day of the verdict based on the amortised car without interest from the day of the damage. We have proposed an amendment here that would partially improve the situation. I would especially like to commend articles 400 to 437 that speak about consumer protection. This is a modern approach that can be found in the best regulated laws in Europe, and apparently, someone has worked hard in that part of the bill. Articles 586 to 89 refer to life-longer contracts. Unlike a life-support contract, a life-restraint contract passes at the time of the contract's signature, turns into the property of a person who takes over someone for life. In our first reading, we suggested that this provision and that possibility be erased at all. It may be a legal gain, it may be like this, it may be, but it is fact that several hundred older and powerless people in Croatia have suffered by misapplication of such a contract, mainly through the provisions of such a contract. And today, we propose an amendment to delete the complete paragraph on the life support contract for the simple reason that the content of these contracts can, therefore, be very easily covered by the content of the grant agreement without the actual surrender of the things referred to in Article 482, paragraph 2 or the grant agreement with the charge referred to in Article 484 and the entire range between Articles 479 to 491. Their content of these provisions can cover almost everything that is in the life support contract except for the intention to make of these people who are mostly helpless what has been done quite often. Another thing I haven't been able to find anywhere inside should be in general terms, which is payment insurance instruments. In all situations where someone needs to pay something by default they will pay in this way, they will pay in this time frame, but they will pay in that way, but the instruments of the mortgage type or anything else, I don't think in this Law they didn't, at least I didn't see them. All of this is progress compared to the previous law. Progress is already due to the fact that things are sorted out and complex by, by the content, logical content groups, the progress made by the introduction of novelties that were obviously missing, which appear in practice, but we are still convinced that another reading of this bill would only benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32852	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32853	Mr. Vice-President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I will point out, in my opening statement, that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, therefore as the Final Proposal, the proposal in the second reading, and not only because of the quality of the regulation itself which is unquestionable especially from the professional side and the development and those institutes which are the content of this relationship but which we are about in detail, I would dare to say, I would consider everything at first reading, some things today, but also for the next reason. We are all familiar with the fact that the Law on Mandatory Relations is therefore a regulation that regulates mandatory relations that was adopted long ago in 1978 in another state-owned establishment, where the system of social property dominated and which, as such, with minor amendments to our legislation, was adopted by the Law on Download, the famous National Paper No 53/91. Secondly, such a text or in terms of its application in practice all these years has been followed by an extremely large number of which both logical changes and additions and total changes over the past years have been amended and supplemented 11 times. So it became also in a nomotechnical sense and in terms of transparency and other reasons, and that is one of the reasons why it was simply necessary to approach the production, to draw up a new text of the Law on Mandatory Relations. And of course, I would also like to emphasise this third segment, which is the phenomenon, the need for harmonisation and this Law, therefore, the Law on Mandatory Relations with the provisions of the European Union Directive and in terms of the terminology of the text of the law with the standard Croatian legal term. So with the legal gains of European legislation or those rules that we need to comply with as legal institutes that should therefore be regulated in the Republic of Croatia and as they are regulated in the countries of the European Union and, of course, in the sense that these regulations, such regulations also have adequate or appropriate, appropriate application. I don't think anyone mentioned it, but it was heard in discussions on committees that there was also a month of January this year, so the last one was done, so last one was in January when the harmonisation was carried out, so just to comply with those standards and with the legislation of the European Union in terms of institutes that are in the very proposal of the law as a final proposal. So we can say that, that this coordination system is completely complete and that this proposal can therefore be said that this coordination system is completely complete and that this coordination is in a good way and done. Since we said a lot in the first reading I really wouldn't be on behalf of the Advocacy Club going into a detailed analysis of all those institutes that were contained in the final bill itself because it really took less than 15 or 20 minutes that would take a lot more time. But let me stress those basics in terms of the quality of this new regulation at least those basic elements this time. There are therefore, redefine the concept of customs as a source of law so as to regulate the concept of a commercial contract or should stop on one newspaper and these are personality rights. So, under the rights of personality within the meaning of this law, rights to life, physical and mental health, reputation, honor, dignity, name, privacy of personal and family life, freedom and others are understood. However, the most important newspaper is in fact a provision that a legal person has all these personality rights other than those related to the biological essence of a natural person. And especially the right to reputation and good reputation, honor, name, or company business secrets, freedom of detention and others. The mass is indeed quality and new solutions to modern solutions, and I think that from the ranks and positions and oppositions today, in this sense and on the committees of the parent committees, the debate took place even with one principle assessment that actually this regulation is a happy combination of theories and practices. The second thing I would like to highlight as a newspaper and what represents a newspaper is this ratio of responsibility for damage and it is directly and indirectly related to what I said earlier. Therefore, this separate part of the law that is being discussed outside the contractual relationship also contains very important changes. Because a new definition of damage has been accepted. The damage is now defined by an objective concept of property damage as a violation of personality rights. And according to this concept, non-imaginative damage is already self-inflicted personality injury and the suffering pain and fear caused by a harmful action are merely a measure of the severity of a violation of personality rights, and are taken into account in addition to other circumstances when determining the level of fair cash compensation. Therefore, in the event of a breach of their reputation and other personality rights, the exposed legal person has the right to cash compensation as a form of repair of non-proprietary damage. In other words, the damage itself comes out of the subjectivity sphere, or satisfaction, when we talk about non-imaginative damage and new solutions, it goes through an objective concept right to the cash compensation that appears here as a form of repair of the non-propriety damage done. In conclusion, we will all agree that this is a very important regulation, which includes a circular and significant part of the civil rights of the Republic of Croatia. Professionality and seriousness in terms of its preparation of the quality of legal solutions no doubt gives us the right to consider it as a fundamental step towards the reform of the Croatian judiciary when we speak to the civil law segment or mandatory law. All these remarks that we just had the opportunity to hear are actually two basics. And that is why, as a proposal drawn from the debate in the first reading, this law does not include a lease agreement. It's as if the lease agreement itself will be put outside the law. No, they won't. Everything that has been or can be meaningfully and truly and theoretically classified under the notion of a lease agreement. He'll continue to exist. He'll continue to exist. And in everyday life, and, of course, under the notion of specific legal work, the provisions of this law will be applied not directly if the lease agreement but certainly that the lease agreement will continue to live. And by the very fact, it is becoming more and more resuscitated in everyday life and legal traffic. It is likely that tomorrow there will be conditions or professional and other what is said to be laid down or suggested to be put in and into this law. If we follow that logic and a basic or circular remark, then we can also ask questions and therefore all those contracts offered by the bank's association in its letter are also not systematic or systematicized by this mandatory relationship law. The Law on Mandatory Relations in relation to the Treaty itself, so contracts understood as legal transactions, in terms of consensual demonstration of the will that always focuses on achieving legal effects. So very wide. And what we recognize here and in this law as concrete legal solutions undoubtedly has its own quality. And what daily life will offer us in the future if the need to and regulate it is regulated, there is absolutely no concern that this will not be regulated if, first of all, there is a professional practical and any other need for it to be normised in terms of the law or amendments or additions to the law on mandatory relations. Furthermore, those remarks we have heard in relation to interest rates, interest rate interest rates anacasm and so on, have been resolved as can be resolved in terms of the bill's proposal in relation to the financial component of the method of calculating interest. I think he has found the best possible solution for the proposer with the given frameworks, with the vacuum as it is and with the possibility that, in the foreseeable future, he will, of course, regulate it in the best possible way in the most qualitative way possible. And of course the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is that it is always the best possible way to go at the hands of Croatian citizens. So the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are forced in one way or another to pay in these contractual interest relations. But also in the debate in terms of adoption and special law, therefore, the interest law, we have also made our position clear and precise. And of course accepted the quality solutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I think that this segment and this regulation of the Croatian government, the resolute ministry in the far line, create a basic prerequisite that this segment of interest is therefore resolved in the best possible way in the given frameworks, as a problem that we have often discussed in this assembly. This quality regulation and comprehensive in its work therefore needs to be implemented as soon as possible, so that the legal institutes presented can also be applied in practice. And finally let me look back on those remarks that went in the direction that the legal contracts were inherited. In the first place, when referring to a life-restraint contract and a life-restraint contract, it was placed in the Mandatory Relations Act. It is doubtless, and that is the view of the profession, therefore, not the policy of the net profession, that there is a legitimate need precisely to regulate these two legal transactions for those reasons and the problems we have faced in the past period of time because of the inaccuracies due to the legal practice that they are currently being elaborated in detail and in this way in which they have been elaborated in the regulation itself. I really want to conclude with one sentence. In line with the all-exposed club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it proposes that this law be taken as soon as possible in the appropriate parliamentary procedure and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32854	Thank you. Mrs. Minister Vesna Skare Ozbolt will now address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32855	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I apologize for not being at the beginning at this opening presentation of this extremely important strategic law that Bebic certainly explained why. And let me say a few sentences, however, since it is one of the most important system laws for both the Croatian judiciary and the work of the economy. It has already said how much this law has experienced and how much the need for it to finally be defined in the modern Croatian Law on Mandatory Relations is adapted to the European Union's criteria. The most important newspaper in the general part of this law should highlight the regulation of personality rights and tight and contractual interest. The right of personality is therefore a newspaper to prescribe that a natural and legal person has the right to protect his or her rights under the premises of the established law and, for example, to state individual rights of personality, these are the right to life, physical and mental health, reputation, honor, dignity, name, privacy of personal and family life, freedom and others. And this is especially important for a legal person who has the right to reputation and good reputation, honor, name, or company, business secret, freedom of conduct and others. Let's just say that these provisions are important and for the sake of a new definition of property damage as a violation of personality rights. When it comes to tight interest rates, here we have had the opportunity to hear speakers on behalf of clubs, the system of determining the rate of tight interest in the proposed law is committed at the escontaneous rate of the Croatian National Bank and in determining the height of the tight interest and the contractual interest always comes from the escountary rate of the Croatian National Bank. The level of tightening interest rates depends on a mandatory legal relationship entity in such a way as to increase the econcentrate of the Croatian National Bank according to that proposal as stated in the law. The paper of this law is the possibility to negotiate a different rate of legal tightening interest in trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons, with the aim to determine the highest rate of such interest that can be agreed and that is the legal tightening interest increased by half of that rate. Today, it would be about 18.75 percentage points, according to the proposal. The contractual interest rate, the contractual interest rate, shall be linked to the rate of tightened interest and the height of the highest rates shall depend on the status of the entity in a specific mandatory legal relationship. What will this arrangement of contractual and tight interest make possible? It will allow for the first more flexible system of determining contractual and legal tightening interest, which will automatically respond to changes in the financial market, will allow for the harmonisation of Croatian law with the acquis of the European Union and will remove negative phenomena in practice that have led to the current legal arrangement of contractual and legal tightening interest. The provisions on the rate of contractual and tightened interest under the transitional provisions of this proposed law will apply after two years counting from the date of entry into force of this law. The delay in the application of this law against interest is the result, I must say, of our economic relations because at this moment the econtamination rate of the Croatian National Bank does not have the function it has in the countries of the European Union, i.e. does not reflect the real value of money and securities markets. However, over two years, it is estimated that it will certainly get closer, or it will get the same role that the econtamination rate plays in the countries of the European Union. In a particular part of the law, it should be pointed out that it provides for contracts which have not been regulated under the applicable law, such as the Life Support Treaty, life support, loan, donation and lease. This law will enter into force 6 months after its publication in "The People's News" and in this way we have given the opportunity for all participants of mandatory legal relations to get familiar with the law within 6 months of the day of publication and that judges and businessmen are sufficiently educated in order to be fully in place after the entry into force of the law. And now let me take a brief look at the remarks and suggestions that are highlighted in the parliamentary debate. There have been a lot of, a lot of objections concerning both application and practice in mandatory relations, at the moment of obtaining legal personality of legal persons, determining the interest rate of contracts of so-called The foreign exchange clause, the regulation of the rate of contractual interest, the duration of the choice of creditors in the case of alternative obligations, the means of dissuasion of legal actions taken to the detriment of creditors and other matters, the life support contract, the life support contract. All those remarks and proposals that were in the parliamentary debate in the process of preparing the final draft legislation have been carefully considered, however, it is for some estimates that they simply cannot be accepted. As part of this final legislative proposal, there is also an exhaustive explanation of the reasons for this, and therefore this is as an integral part of the business processing of the law listed in the light of this final draft of the law, and I don't think it makes any sense to repeat it now. However, she would point out some things. Suggestions that this law should also be settled and the lease agreement was not accepted. The agreement as an autonomous commercial law contract is still being developed in practice, and it is therefore estimated that the conditions for its regulation have not yet been matured. A firm arrangement of that contract in practice would be more damage than it would benefit. However, since the lease agreement which is the combination of the buy-in contract with respect to the right of ownership of the buy-in contract with the due repayment of prices, the lease contract and the lease contract is. The provisions and specific, therefore, of the general part of the proposed law may be used in the conclusion of that contract. There were also comments on the provisions of the life support and life support contracts, i.e. to specify more detailed offices, i.e. to prescribe that these contracts must be signed in front of a judge or a public notary. We didn't accept that objection. The form of a life support contract is laid down in Article 580 of the Law. In accordance with paragraph 1, a life-restraint contract must be drawn up in writing and certified by a judge of the competent court or confirmed solimised by a public notary or drawn up in the form of a public notary act. In the event of an authorisation or assembly of an authorised person, the contract shall be read to the contractors and introduced to them, and shall be informed of the consequences thereof. These provisions, pursuant to Article 589 of the proposed law, also apply to the form of a life support contract. And it is estimated that the proposed provisions on the form of these contracts provide indeed sufficient protection to contracting parties against possible abuses. For these very reasons, we could not accept the proposal to include social care centres in the process of concluding these contracts. Because that would also mean a violation of the principle of freedom of regulation of mandatory relations. And I would also add only one comment on the proposal that the application of the interest provisions should not be delayed for two years from the date of entry into force of this law, but should take effect at the same time as the law. The same proposal was not accepted because, as I said, it will allow the econt rate of the Croatian National Bank to become a reference reflection of the real state of the money market over a period of two years. Here, these are some, these are references to some just remarks. I thank you for this debate and for your participation together with the commission in drawing up this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32856	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate, an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this. It's Mr. Rade Ivas's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32857	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, representatives of the government. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations and it is certainly one of the system laws that is relevant not only to our economy but to the judiciary at all. About this law, our predecessors said quite positively, he got a lot of praise, and I don't think it's the first time that the proposals coming from the Justice Department get praises, and I think it's certainly one encouragement for the entire judicial reform that's ahead of us. For almost ten years, known legal professionals participated in this draft law, and it is certainly a consistent and compact law in a legal sense. Otherwise, the current mandatory relationship law was established in the former state and was adopted into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia in 1991. It was necessary to pass a new law for a number of reasons. First because of many amendments, there were 11 of them, the text of the law became unseen because of the Directives of Europe and the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquiss of the European Union, to correct certain shortcomings observed in the practice so far and to comply with the standards of Croatian legal title. The final bill is very extensive and contains over 1200 articles. The proposed text of the law compared to the law so far has made changes in the systematization of content, renumberation of articles has been carried out and substantive changes have been made. But the most important newspaper in the bill, as we have heard, refers to legal capacity and regulation of tight contractual interest. The law regulates various areas through 1165 articles, as well as the interest issue by linking them to an econtamination rate of the Croatian National Bank. Interests will depend on whether economic contracts, trade contracts, state contracts, etc. In trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons, the escount rate increases by 8%, and in other relations, consumer and civil contracts by 5%. However, according to this proposal, it is also possible to negotiate different rates of tight interest in trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons. This proposed arrangement of contracted tight interest allows a flexible system of contracting and legal tightening interest that will automatically regulate, react to a change in the fiscal market. Today we have received one remark from the banking association that opposes such interest regulation and think it is against the market economy and I think there is no need to comment on it at all. The application of this law in relation to contractual and tightening interest, however, is delayed for a period of two years, counting from the date of entry into force, which means everything is over two and a half years. The promoter gave an explanation. This argument can be accepted, but it seems to me that a little effort has been made to enable it to be applied immediately with the law itself. Otherwise, the law itself comes into force in six months. This is okay because it provides the possibility for all entities of mandatory legal relations to study the law well, i.e. to prepare both judges and businessmen for this new law. We also said that the newspaper is more significant in this law in the case of legal personality because it is prescribed that natural and legal persons have the right to protect their rights and personalities under the assumption established by law. The legal personality within the meaning of this law implies the right to life, physical and mental health, reputation, honor, dignity, name, private... family life, freedom and others. [[You don't understand.]] The most important news is that the legal person also has all of these rights of reputation, good reputation, honor, company name, business secret, etc. Unlike interest on which the application is delayed by two years under the proposal for a law, a provision on the compensation of non-material damage, for example in cases of accidents, will immediately enter into force. The news is that in these cases interest is counted on the day of the lawsuit not as before since the day of power of judgment. The Law on Mandatory Relations in the proposal has also set out exactly the circle of persons entitled to compensation for suffering physical pain, due to the death of particularly severe disability of close relatives, conditional brothers and sisters if they lived with the deceased in a permanent community. I am pleased that the promoter also accepted the initiative from the debate and that, in the final proposal of the law, the persons entitled to fair compensation for property damage are included both grandparents and grandparents if they have, if between them and the deceased, or the injured, a permanent community of life. The new law introduces several new institutions, such as loan contracts, donation contracts that are still subject to the 19th century Austrian law, and life support contracts. It's a good thing the promoter here can say that although there were reasons why no lease contract was incorporated into this bill, I will repeat again that it would be better for him to be installed, because I believe that the definition of this legal job and its detailed work in this law would remove those ambiguities that normally appear in practice. It seems to me that, as we have established on the board today, we should review the provision of Article 260 which provides that the written offer and acceptance of the offer is binding on certain conditions even though it is not signed by an authorised person, because this will seem to increase the possibility of abuse, and thus the existence and offences. And the final proposal for this law is in line with the standards of Croatian-legal title, so instead of the term 'zeroty', the term 'zeroty' is introduced, instead of'material and immaterial damage', the term 'equity and non-equity damage' is introduced, etc. And to conclude, it is a very important regulation that includes the most significant part of the civil law of the Republic of Croatia. It is a regulation that is highly quality and professionally done and needs to be implemented as soon as possible so that the established legal institutes can be applied in practice as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32858	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32859	Mr. Vice President, Minister with Associates. This is one really big law...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32860	Just a minute. At 6:11 a.m., it's past the time of the report. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32861	All the laws are important to us, but this is really a law that we can say belongs to that first category of laws that are really extremely important because it regulates the mandatory relationships that arise in life between natural persons, companies, legal persons and all participants. Indeed, great effort and work has been put into the making of this legal text, and it was really necessary to make such a law, because the law that has so far had 11 amendments, and it has not yet contained everything, did not contain those institutes to which the provisions of the general civil code were applied as to donation contracts, as to loan contracts, as to life support contracts and it is truly commendable that we now have it all in one place. It is also good that the institutes are in line with the European Union's liquids and legal system. It is also good that some institutes that have already been in the Law have, of course, been, that their definitions have been significantly more clear and important now than, I don't know, in Article 343. "Several Force", then "Connecting Contracts Due to Changed Circumstances". Now it's all more important than it's ever been before. It was here, not to say again, a lot of speeches that were still needed in this Law, and we're all actually, all on boards, there was a lot of talk about whether there was a need to put the provisions on the Leasing into the Law. I must say that here I will conform to the position of the working group and I believe that this Law allows and gives a good legal framework for those contracts that are of a newer type to be regulated in accordance with this Law, especially in this provision of Article 462. "Sales with respect to ownership rights" and we do not, of course, have to say the fundamental rule in Article 11 that the provisions of this Act are dissuasive. So in principle, he does not forbid us to settle things in legal traffic and otherwise from what this law is like. Of course, life will regulate those institutes to the end, and as many as this Law has a thousand articles, it will not be possible to predict all those relationships that will appear in practice, and I think it is an ambitious requirement that by one such law we can absolutely specify in detail. He's precise, he's clear and I think you should accept him already in this reading and not go into third reading. The only thing I have a particular grudge is life-long and life-restraint contracts. I think there was little here, and I think there was room for this institute to work out a little bit better because really when we look at court practice and actually look at the behavior of the subjects related to the conclusion of these lifetime and life support contracts, there are really various manipulations. It's not the law, it's the subject's fault that they're actually doing it in life. And perhaps there was room for the institute to be instituted so that such contracts could be concluded before the Social Care Centro. Social care centers, we know that, they have psychologists and other types of experts who might even recognize some bad intentions, but in the conclusion of these contracts themselves. Now these contracts are, of course, life support under the current Law of Inheritance concluded before a judge. Of course, such a contract should be read, it should be directed to the party whether he understands everything or not, but in practice we know that the courts are packed with cases, we know that all of this is done and when the records are signed. At the hearing, no one reads the record completely securely but signs it. And that is why perhaps the third institution to which such contracts could be concluded should have been opened, and I think it was a good proposal. But in any case, I think this legal framework is in line with some European standards, but unfortunately, these are very difficult contracts and are very difficult situations that they lead to. And these are really very painful litigations when it comes to breaking up such contracts and when people who are of some high age, who have no one and are actually brought into some kind of age to be manipulated and deceived. And after that, actually, the issue of legal protection is very questionable. Also, as for interest, I think here as far as interest is concerned, we can say that this particular government and the Parliament have done a lot in this session. And with that authentic interpretation of interest and with this interest law that's in force I think we've really broken one very, very bad practice of that interest rate calculation, and that's especially wrong, and it's been wrong and interpreted that every year, we're counting interest on the deposited principal again. So I think these provisions are good on interest and that this two-year deadline is really going to lead to a more realistic econ rate that this supplement can go to at that time regarding tight interest. I think the law is really good, and for every commendation that we now have everything in one place, that we no longer have to look at those old OGZ rules and dig up their arrangements. Now it's all here, the institutes have been much improved, many are actually interpreted, and in any case this Law really needs to be passed and every praise to both the ministry and the task force that has invested obviously here an enormous effort in the making of this Law and I believe that we will also bring it here. Personally, I support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32862	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, despite the general commendation of this Law. Our task is not to share praises, but to promote on the critical side the solutions we are offered. So it should be assessed that the Croatian market is institutionally neglected, abandoned, undeveloped. And it's very liberal. That's why I think the grades we've heard about the criticism of this law, so what the Law doesn't contain deserve more detailed answers. I'll start with today's most frequently highlighted lease agreement. The explanation that Croatian legal practice or relations on the market will best regulate such matter as the lease agreements of any kind is the advantage of precisely liberalism on the Croatian market in the way I am about to tell you now. In fact, in the last year alone, Croatian banks have probably committed $3 billion to their queens abroad, and most of that money has been spent in the Republic of Croatia. It also means the leasing of any kind. If we know that the judiciary is not at least effective then leaving such a relationship as leasing, that it is arranged by banks and other strong institutions as chains of trade, then it is leaving the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the mercy of the stronger. No matter what interpretation it will be that, under this Law, how it is now proposed to resolve in legal practice, the question of the Leasing Treaty simply seems to me to be that this is not an aid to the citizens. I won't be long, but I'll repeat some of the discussions I had in my first reading. I believe that an excuse to have long-term and life-long maintenance contracts is that these are inheritance-registration contracts, so they should not be more precisely regulated and protected by those on my terms. It's not good. Simply practice shows that most often those who give their property for their end of life protect themselves. Well, most of the time they're played, then it's not our job to keep it quiet, but to say that such contracts should really be attended by social work centres. It is in the interest of legal certainty of citizens who make such contracts. When it comes to interest, of course, I support the solutions offered in the Mandatory Relations Act when it comes to interest. But by the way, I haven't found anywhere in the Law to define persons of public law in the Republic of Croatia, they're in theory very well known but we have to define them. Since we have a liberal Law on Associations, so we can expect in Croatia that we have an association that doesn't even know how much they don't have to register but they're involved in legal traffic, I would ask for immediate answers, whether they are public rights persons or not. This should be added that delaying the application of the provisions of the draft interest law for two years is not legal certainty since the reasons why we were managed when we passed the applicable interest law. He doesn't support reasons and change isn't caused by relationships in society. This should be added that the interest that is provided here will not ensure the protection of the weaker, on the contrary they only speak as the law states that interest on interest cannot be calculated. But there's something that's not essential, but building a legal system, this law changes two more laws. In the transitional and final provisions we amend the Law on Interests and the Law on Inheritance. Of course, in the legal practice of the Republic of Croatia, it could have been said for several years that the continuity, the constant, but even in the Parliament, we have reached one conclusion that one law cannot change other laws, even if it was only deleted and put out of force by some provisions of another law because it does not create legal certainty. After all, I have already mentioned that the question of legal personality has been resolved in a modern way and I have no objections there, but if we could yet step up or at least reduce the application of the interest provisions I think the law could really get a positive assessment but we would not be able to solve perhaps the most important problems that today's liberal market in the Republic of Croatia is about interest and lease contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32864	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt concludes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32865	Let me finally thank all of you who participated in this debate, and I would like to thank the working group headed by Professor Petar Klaric, who has been preparing this Law since 95, and I don't think I should be able to get back into what I've already talked about in some way to answer all these questions that you've asked, now this one in an individual debate, except now that my fellow Leki that associations are not persons of public law. And what are personal public rights, are defined by public legal affairs, states, units, local, regional, regional self-government and other bodies with public authority and we do not think that they were necessary to regulate this Law on Mandatory Relations. Here I call you finally to vote this Law, that the law has no need to go into third reading because it is truly complete, it has been worked very long, a very expert group has worked on it and I urge you once again to vote on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32866	I thank you for bringing this debate to an end in connection with this law. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll interrupt the session and continue on the agenda tomorrow at 9:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32867	Final proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations, Second Reading, P.Z.E. 226 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HNS PGS Representatives' Club, two amendments. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snježana Bagic. Here you go. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32868	Amendment 1. The government doesn't accept. Why won't he accept it? Namely, preventing debt resuscitation by paying off, which is a common phenomenon in our terms, which is proposed, by reason of this amendment, as a reason why Article 342 proposes to supplement paragraph 6 at the assessment of the applicants, is already achieved by other provisions of this law. According to Article 1086 of the Law, compensation for damages shall be considered to be due at the time of the occurrence of the damages, while the provision of Article 1103 provides for the obligation of fair cash compensation, i.e. the compensation for non-immuvine damages, the satisfaction for that type of damage being suffered on the day of the submission of the written request or the action. Therefore, since the time when the damage occurred, it is property damage, i.e. from the date of submission of the written request or from the claim in respect of non-proprietary damage, the debtor is obliged to repair the damage. From that moment on, the obligation is due, therefore, to the compensation of the damage until it is paid by legal tightening interest, therefore, according to the same law. Therefore, already during this time, the beginning of the legal tight interest course prevents possible abuse of the authority of this debtor, or his procedure to delay the payment of damages to the creditors. And these are the reasons why the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32869	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić, the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32870	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that large-scale insurance companies and very often serve these very articles of the law in order to withdraw, to reduce the damages that have occurred, and to pay less compensation, for example, to the vehicle, if any, after possible and included depreciations. Please vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32871	Please, who's in favour of this amendment. Come on, come on, come on, come on, You can vote. Score. For amendment 29, abstention four against 70. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32872	The government doesn't accept. The amendment proposes that the provisions of this Act be deleted, which are governed by the Treaty on Death Restraint. With a reason that the same effects of the contract can be achieved by some other contracts of this same law, such as the grant agreement. However, with respect to all the reasons of the promoters, we must point out that the nature of the Donation Treaty is completely different to death. In fact, the donation is free of charge of legal work, so a free contract, while the contract from to mortal restraint implies a certain obligation between the recipients and the abstention providers is therefore a completely different purpose. So, if someone were to give restraint, we would consider ourselves if it were to agree that nature would be only that it could be without any compensation on the one hand and on the other hand, and the consequences of inheritance rights are different when it comes to these two contracts. In fact, the availability made on the basis of the grant contract may be refuted by the necessary heirs until the availability made under the Mortal Restraint Treaty can be refuted. Therefore, for these reasons, we feel that we should certainly leave how a contract on a life-long contract on life-restraint in this law... Inheritance law and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] this law in order to be precisely the persons they consider and who need some care and care that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the possibility to resolve this through these contracts, bearing in mind, of course, that they should be provided with some mechanisms to protect themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there are different options for installing protective mechanisms and for them to be secured and thus to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32873	Proposer esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32874	Look at the contract on death support has come across a great deal, it has gained great popularity among those who intend to get away with older people as much as possible. We all know a few hundred such cases in Croatia. All that is achieved by the contract of to-lethal restraint can be reached by a donation contract with... which is clear, beautifully precise, unlike this contract that has been left in some foggy spheres, through these foggy spheres, what has happened so far to the elderly is being taken away from these apartments and houses out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-23-0.u32875	Thank you. We are voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Please engage. You can vote. Score. 30 for the amendment, 6 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 90 votes for, 7 abstentions and 8 against a mandatory relationship law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
