ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32877	... I welcome you. [[beginning not saved]] We continue the session and move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Health Insurance Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading of P.Z. No. 170. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32878	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. About a month ago in this House, we considered and adopted the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights as one of... A law that as a legislative authority we tried to regulate the way in which patients' rights are protected in this country's health system. [[for the announcement, the speaker doesn't understand]] And in the debate on this law, I or a large number of colleagues and colleagues have warned or expressed our position and supported this bill because we have come from the assumption or claim that the most effective protection model of someone's right is if the citizens or those whose rights or laws first know their rights, so they are familiar with their rights, if they know where to consult, inform. And finally, if there is a violation of a certain right to know which institution is competent, authorised and tasked with the right that has been seized, violated or denied in accordance with the law being returned. We had something similar last week when, under the Consumer Protection Act, we passed an annual programme of consumer rights, although we also have the Consumer Rights Act, there was a need to adopt an operational programme in order to determine the jurisdiction of the state, but also civil society, to help consumers protect these rights. If we have passed a special Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, then the question is now asked, and what about the rights of the insurance companies secured by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? Namely, the Law, the Croatian Health Insurance Office declares and treats it as an insurance undertaking. And all of us who have their health card, the law calls and gives insurance status. So on the one hand, we have an insurance company. On the other hand, insurance. You all probably know that any insurance undertaking that appears in the provision of certain services when entering into an insurance contract by the other party gives either a contract or an insurance policy or an act, a document establishing mutual relations between rights and obligations. This insurance company and these insurance companies are the only cases where, apart from their health card, insurance companies do not receive anything else from their insurance company. Therefore, the Croatian Institute does not have to give its insurance companies an insurance agreement, it does not have to give the insurance policy, neither the solution nor any law on obtaining insurance status. At the same time, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance determines the rights of the insurance company. Therefore, it is authorised under the Law to establish its rights, that those rights are amended, depending on the decisions of the competent authorities, and that there is no obligation to inform or inform its insurance undertakings of the changed rights or conditions of insurance. By preparing this topic and wanting to check how this insurance company works towards its insurance companies in July of last year, I addressed the director or director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute with one banal issue, but with a true example that is often in the situation of our citizens, and I asked the question, where can the insurance company at the Croatian Health Insurance Office check whether any medicine he needs is on the list of prescriptions or on the hospital list of medicines? And I referred the question to the directorate in writing. And got an answer that's roughly the following. That the insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Office can carry out that check with its doctor. The second place is to read the National No. 60/03, 70/03, 86/03, 111/03. and 51/04. And it's third, the web. website of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. So, according to this it turns out that all insurance companies of the Croatian Institute should either be subscribed to the National Journal or all connected to the Internet so that they can verify the most common information on the list of insurance companies with which I concluded a health insurance agreement. I expected that I would get an answer, let's say, a contact phone in the Directorate of the Croatian Institute that works at least 8 hours a day, where any insurance can check any information, ask any questions on the subject of insurance rights and get an adequate answer. The answer therefore shows that the Croatian Health Insurance Office does not have an insurance service, there are no officials and phones to which they would receive any questions or obligation to provide any answers. In his reply in writing, he confirmed that he himself was the director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. After that and such knowledge, we decided to ask the insurance companies of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to which they are informed and familiar with their rights. In fact, it is often the government's delusion that insurance rights are established by the Health Protection or Health Insurance Act. And the fact is that most of the rights of the insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Office are established in different rules. The first reading, and in the light of our proposal, I found 17 regulations establishing a variety of basic rights for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which is the most important one from 2003, which determines the basic rights of basic health insurance. We only pulled 10 questions out of this rulebook. And tested at about 40,000 insurance and the average number of correct answers to these simple questions was one. One correct answer to 10 questions. The questions were first, in what time did the employer of the employee he hired have to report to the Croatian Health Insurance Office? Or does a health-secured person have the right to treatment at home or can the insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Office choose a hospital in which they will be treated on the basis of the instructions of the competent doctor? Or, in what time does each health care institution have to receive each patient for examination or treatment? We also asked insurance companies who bear the cost of the salary during their stay for up to 42 days and after that, how much at this point is the compensation for the sick for the first six months and after that, how much is the maternity leave fee. And finally, where or whom a complaint can be filed for the short period of health insurance rights. I've only read a few of these five, six questions that I really have no reason to lie to you about. People didn't know the answers. Or they could guess what it might be but they, as insurance companies of the Croatian Institute, did not know the answers to these questions. Why citizens, why insurance doesn't know the answers to these questions. The first reason is probably because there are a large number of regulations that determine these rights, both not legal but sublegal and not regulations that are passed by the Government or the Resort Ministry, but by an institution with public authority, so an insurance company called the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The second reason is because there are frequent changes to these regulations. The third reason in my court is that the information catalogue of these rights is difficult to reach to the insurance company. There is a fear of irrevocableness and ultimately the authority of bureaucracy on every inquiry is always the strongest and citizens after receiving the first answer do not know where the place for the second question is or where to look for another answer. On this basis, we proposed a small intervention in the existing law in which we went or wanted to oblige the insurance company to issue to each insurance undertaking a decision on the acquisition of insurance status and to give the insurance undertaking an act establishing those rights. So, something that's about insurance and insurance is the most fundamental relationship that should be the most important. The government has manifested itself on this proposal, and I must say that they have made a lot of effort in their own testimony because the obvious is three times more extensive than the text of the law itself, and it is normal that the government's position is that this law should not be adopted because it should change a few more articles of the law, in order for it to cost a few more money. But what I want to isolate from the government's position is the following. So, I quote the government's position. "Besides, even members of the European Union do not have such practice but issue brochures that meet their insurance companies on fundamental rights. For example, the Republic of Slovenia issues once a year small brochures with basic data on basic health insurance rights available to their insurance companies in doctors, pharmacists, health institutions and elsewhere." Furthermore, the second quote "For better information of the insured persons, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is now preparing the brochure of the Institute on basic health insurance rights in the way they are implemented." This is what the government referred to our proposal on November 11th last year, with our proposal for a law being passed in September last year. So it's about a bill that moved from session to session and only now came to the agenda. But then, on November 11th, the government informs us that HZZO is preparing the brochure, for example, as is the case with neighbouring Slovenia. It's February 24th if I'm not mistaken. I haven't found a brochure like that anywhere in any waiting room in the infirmary, pharmacy or anywhere else. I therefore wish to believe that the Croatian Institute will finally issue this brochure because we heard that it is being prepared and when we discussed and passed the Law on the Protection of Patients, and I remind you that then the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of our club and on the basis of the fact that Mr Hebranga, the Minister of Health, has concluded that within 30 days of the entry into force of the Law on the Protection of Patients, will also prepare a special brochure on the subject of this law. It seems to me that 30 days from that deadline has passed without such special brochures. It is only proof that this attempt to force the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to change our relationship with its insurance companies and to be obliged to provide them with accurate information, a list and a catalogue of the rights they acquire at the time of the status of the insurance company. For the introduction so much. The only reason and motive to realize that it would cost something but I can't figure out how always finances, money is the government's problem if we should do something to help the citizens of this country be informed of their rights. It amazes these facts of the fear of spending budget money in favour of citizens in this case the insurance company with public powers which has a monopoly on basic health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32879	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32880	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative Lesar initially said that in fact the letter, the answer he received on his request regarding drugs, whether they are on the list or not, would be given only those people who have been subscribed to the National Journal or who are computer written. However, the first answer is that health interpreters are relevant things. Let's not forget what the cure is. It's not the cure of the Grinjage being interpreted by doctors. Therefore, I would not simply accept any other thought. So let's not get away from that fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32881	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32882	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary Lesar said that the brochure was promised but that it was not printed or that he had not seen it. For his information, the brochure he spoke of was printed and distributed at 12 months in 200,000 copies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32883	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32884	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 19th session of the Committee held on 25 November 2004 discussed this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act submitted to the President of this Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with its business powers. Following the opening explanation of the proposal, the Committee members are familiar with the opinion delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposed law. In his opinion, the government proposes not to accept such a bill. The provisions of the Health Insurance Act governing the issue of a solution to basic insurance rights are fully in line with the Law on Legal Procedure. Thus, the basic health insurance rights shall be decided without a written solution which may be issued at the request of the party. In the debate, most members of the Committee supported the government's opinion, particularly because the right to basic health insurance is determined by recognition of the status of the insured person. As the status of the insured person in basic health insurance proves to be specific, there is no need for the same purpose of issuing solutions. The basic insurance rights of the insured person shall be obtained directly by premonition of the health insurance card. Health care is available to any insurance company in the debate, and the scope of the rights and protection of insurance companies has been established by a number of legal regulations, the proposed solution in the opinion of the Committee members is contrary to the principles of economics because the issue of a solution would result in significant material costs and would not have had any positive effect on the achievement of the rights of the insurance company. After the discussion, the Committee members with a majority of votes of 6 for, 3 against decided to propose a proposal to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the conclusions: The Amendments and Supplements Act of the Health Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the HNS and PGS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32885	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Here you go. Secretary of State Velimir Bozikov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32886	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished gentlemen of MPs and MPs. It is precisely that this objection that our insurance companies are not sufficiently informed about their rights is denied with this guide that has a date of 8 November and has issued, printed by the Croatian Health Insurance Office on almost 50 pages where our insurance companies are detailed about all rights. Thus, this existing practice of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is practically sophisticated to the end, suitable for our citizens who have enough information. Furthermore, information can be seen with, clearly from citizens who are better informed, they can really see it online, there are portals, kiosks in all units, the departments of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, of course as well as centrals in Zagreb where citizens can be interested, they can get these guides so that this Law has become fully applicable now as in European practice. The government is reluctant to change the Law because these contracts, which would now be rewritten, would clearly receive new costs and we think that these costs would be better directed to an even greater circulation of these guides so that virtually any insurance company can be fully informed of its rights. So, we don't propose, we, to change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32887	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of HNS, PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of this Act, drawn up by the HNS Club, PGS, is short in volume as you can see, short in text and easy to apply. On November 11th, however, the government gave a negative opinion on the law, promising the insurance brochure. To be honest, I didn't know until today that the brochure exists although I almost regularly go to the doctor for the accident, my doctor doesn't have it, the pharmacy where I buy the drugs is gone, I don't know where it is, and I don't know when it's printed, it's wearing a date on November 8, 8th definitely wasn't printed because, because the government said on November 11th that it's going to print it, so it just doesn't stand. By action, i.e. by surveying insurance companies conducted by the Croatian People's Party, we found that insurance companies know very little about their rights and, most sadly, do not know who they would ask about these rights. The situation is relatively simple and benign until these rights need to be exploited. And when a person finds himself in a situation where he needs something specific, something that is above the level of the Andols then there are daily applications to help patients in the daily press, help sick children who cannot be treated in a way that enables the Croatian Health Insurance Service to help elderly people who cannot be treated in the same way and whose rights do not fall under guaranteed rights. So a terrible situation arises to gather in a state that states in its Constitution that it is a social, voluntary contribution for sick children to be treated. That may sound demagogue, but it's true, it's true, I don't believe that the stories, that the stories in the newspapers that come out with the name and last name of fiction, are one maybe, two maybe but no 20. In any case, the applicant's intention is to give the insurance undertaking a solution that regulates the status of the right. The solution is not to write another paper, so that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has what to do further, but a solution because it is an act on which a person can request certain legal protection. A solution can be refuted, a solution can be complained, and a man's card can only be placed in his pocket. And when he shows up with a doctor to find out he's worth something, it's not worth it. The fundamental fact is that insurance companies pay for these services. Health care in Croatia is part of the social system, it is part of the economic functioning of the government, i.e. such institutions with public authority, but the fact is that these funds are allotted to all health services from taxpayers' taxes, which are also insurance companies. So, insurance companies pay for it, at least it's polite for the insurance guy to know what he's paying for and it's polite for someone who pays to make sure he thinks he's complaining if he doesn't think he's getting everything he's paid for his money. At the very least, it would be polite for the insurance company to release in fact inexecutible obligations to meet the 11 regulations and 6 decisions of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. It's quite written, I've tried to read those rules, it's been very difficult for me. The observation that the realisation of these rights should be left in the hands of the doctor and that the laymen don't actually have a god knows what to do is a Czech remark that may have been a few hundred years ago and made sense, but since the French Revolution, I don't think it does. But in any case, when an insurance company finds itself in all this, in all these 11 regulations and 6 decisions, and finds that something is not what he thought and how he needs what he can do at that point? He can leave, he can contact the Health Insurance Office, look for a solution at that point. As long as his solution is issued, he has to wait. He can write a complaint and an objection to that solution. By the time the appeal and complaint is resolved, he either healed or died. And the whole thing just loses it a little bit. Because of all this, the HNS Club of the PGS of course supports its own initiative and we appeal to other representatives to support such an initiative because it is in the interest and openness of Croatian society and in the interest of all of us as insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32889	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32890	Dear Mr. Vice President, representative, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act proposed by the HNS and PGS Club. The HDZ Club considered this proposal and took it, took the view that it would not support this proposal, and I will now state the reasons in several lines. In fact, the main starting point of the proposal is that their proposal is essentially based on two basic principles. This is the principle of availability and the principle of contractual relationship, therefore their intensity to be issued to each insurance undertaking. I would say that it is not so and that it is not as simple as my colleague Vuljanic said now that the proposal is actually simple, but in fact this proposal is simple, but the implementation would be very complicated and expensive. Why do I say that? Because when we talk about availability then the availability of healthcare in Croatia is at the highest level. I would say in the world that few countries of the sea can measure with that kind of availability because Croatian citizens and patients normally, when they get into this situation, have a practical right to everything. They have the right to everything. The second is the story whether it's the right that's always been achieved in the best way. But now it's a matter of another topic and another debate. So the principle of availability is respected in Croatia maximum. What would a contractual relationship mean? And why is he actually inconclusive in our terms? For a very simple reason. Croatian Health Insurance, Health Insurance Act is divided into 3 types of insurance. So mandatory, basic or as some call it national health insurance, in addition and in private. These two are voluntary, therefore, and this is in itself mandatory to say that it is within the authority of a state which provides all citizens with these rights, or all citizens, with health care on those principles already stated in the law. What would it mean to issue a solution? And would that be legally possible? It wouldn't be. Because it has to write exactly what the citizen is right to do. How, for example, could the solution say that a citizen has the right to 7 recipes or 8 or 3 instructions and so on? This is the average that has been performed, no, which does not apply to the individual but is derived from the mass of all insurance companies, and the patient who needs to have unlimited actual number and instructions and recipes. Thus, it is impossible to issue a solution according to this one legal point of view. Because the solution is a legal act that must be precise. This may be issued by private insurance companies with supplementary insurance. They write in your contract that you have seven days' right to the apartment, but on the eighth day you pay, right? Therefore, the second situation in one compulsory insurance that the Croatian state has solved through the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and it is quite another when it is a voluntary insurance, when private insurance is then it is possible to write exactly everything that is obtained for what is paid. The principle of solidarity is the basis of our Health Insurance Act, the basic law, and from this principle of solidarity that I think we have well and so remain because we are a social state if we are and we want to stay that way, then we must give it to all citizens the same. And what does that solidarity mean in basic insurance? It means everyone pays differently to the height of their salary, but everyone gets the same thing. They get this cart that we, the truth God, have not yet defined to the end, and the new proposals of the Health Insurance Act that will soon come into this House will try to solve this problem, but in any case this is the one general basket that offers everything in the law. So to talk about, about the monopoly of the Croatian Institute, I don't think it's good because at this point it's necessary. The Croatian state, if it wants to ensure that everyone is available and equal, therefore everything that is the basis of solidarity must simply have such a single state guarantee. We're not talking about his efficiency right now. This can be debated, but the fact that confusion as an insurance company is because they do not know, there are many regulations, many acts that they are not able to read and know and it is in some way now recently solved exactly what has been mentioned so far in the debate that a brochure has been issued which has entered into circulation at the end of the year. It is also printed in 200,000 copies and will be available in all hospitals, all waiting rooms, pharmacyes and so on. The fact that some of them may not have really promoted it properly is another thing, but there is therefore information via the Internet, information through the portals that exist in all the Croatian Institute’s regional offices. It cannot therefore be said that citizens are not sufficiently informed. Therefore, all that is in the law of Articles 100 to 108 relating to the exercise of basic insurance rights is very clearly written. The health card, therefore, is a document that creates and recognises the status of the insurance company and all the rights resulting from it. True God and individual solutions are issued, but at the request of the insurance party, or in cases where an employer or one who is obliged to pay the contribution violates that act. The Croatian Institute then issues a solution or warns the employer or if a person pays for himself contributions that he must do or log out. So these are the cases that have been worked out in these few articles, I say from Articles 100 to 108 that regulate all of this, so it's all clear and everything is available. And once again, I would say that this proposal, however the intention seems good, and in order to be informed, better informative of the insurance companies, is still inconclusive and for legal reasons, is one of these and the fact that since 2002 the Croatian Institute has become part of the budget, therefore quite another law that limits this particular issue of a solution that is bound by the Croatian Institute and in the period when 31.12 passes. So it is quite another relationship and simply and for these reasons impossible to implement and therefore the HDZ Club cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32891	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So far, several things have been said that this proposal could be interpreted in the wrong direction, meaning, and even ignorance of basic matter. First of all, when I was talking about checking a list of medicines to which my friend Boras was correcting, I didn't think the patient was checking the contents of the drug to receive it, not just one basic question. Is there some medicine I need on the list of medicines that go to the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? There are two types of lists, a list of prescriptions in the pharmacy and a list of medicines that the insurance company is entitled to at the hospital during hospital treatment. And now you're not going to tell me that you don't know that there's a practice, that the hospital is firing a patient for home treatment in order to avoid ordering a drug that's on the hospital list with the instructions that the patient buys it himself and that there aren't cases in this country and that the patients don't really buy these medicines with their money because they don't know that the hospital has to provide him with a drug that's on the list of medicines for hospital treatment. So I was talking about checking. Check when I don't trust a doctor if he's on the list or not. Why should a security guard trust a doctor without a doubt whether or not I have a right to do so? Why wouldn't the insurance company have the right to check with the insurance company whether that information is correct or not? Subscribe to "The People's Journal" or the Internet. It has every other citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of having that check myself made by logic of things. Secondly, I sincerely thank Mr. Secretary of State for the information that the guide was printed, I really didn't know that. I'll ask you to give me a copy if it's possible and I congratulate you on that effort because this is if I'm not wrong for the first time that such a guide is printed. But now I only have two questions. Is it after he's been distributed to the field offices when this is published, so when a health card is issued to a new insurance company, you give a guide? Is there an obligation of the HZZO field office to give every new insurance officer the moment he's given this, he gets a guide? Is an internal HZZO act prescribed that this will be printed at least once every year because once a year more or less and rules are changed and that each new insurance company will get this? If you show me an internal HZZO act that it is entered as the right and obligations of the insurance company to the insurance company that at least once a year they will get this, and every new insurance company with a health card, I will withdraw the bill immediately from the procedure. But give me that, is there a decision by the Governing Council of HZZO on that? Is that included in the regulation governing the basic or compulsory health insurance rights? So the rules, the rule that HZO brings. HZZO itself can commit itself to doing this once a year. So that's what this is about. I want to take off every dilemma for a possible criticism of why we're only proposing this right now. No, in 2002 we sent the same request and the proposal to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance at the time and we received a reply in 2002 at the 8th month that the Croatian Institute was preparing the issue of such a brochure. So in 2002 we also asked for and proposed, but directly to the insurance company. Since it hasn't been realised since then, we consider it necessary for the Parliament to make a law of them when they don't want it. That's the third. I agree that the availability of health care based on a card is almost everywhere, about quality this time I won't. But we're not talking about the availability of healthcare, we're talking about the availability of information on insurance rights. Information on rights, not access to healthcare. If I am not mistaken, he is also president of the Management Board of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, so it would be interesting to see how many complaints in the secondary procedure are coming to the Directorate in Zagreb, how many complaints have been made so far to the work of the Croatian Health Insurance Offices in terms of the exercise of health insurance rights, basic or compulsory health insurance and it is true that we do not understand each other. The solution is not entered in the rights and we have requested that HZZO issue a decision on the status, acquisition of insurance status, and in the contract, i.e. in the act of the Institute, the rights arising from insurance are established. So it wasn't our goal to list the rights in the solution, but to recognise the status of the insurance company, and in a catalogue like this, give those rights to you. But if we don't agree now and if the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance doesn't take over the constant obligation of information on rights now, then it will depend on whether whoever's at the head of the Institute has a desire to do so or not. A discretionary decision, the discretionary right of a single man, and we seek and demand that it be an insurance obligation against the insurance company. Citizens are well informed about their rights and this guide is a contribution to this. But let's do this, waiting lists for specialist examinations or hospital accommodations and certain procedures. According to the very information from the health care system in the last two months, for some tests and procedures, it is longer than six months. Those aren't my statements. These are the statements of the Ministry and the Bureau themselves. But that rule, which was adopted by the Croatian Health Insurance Authority in 2003, states that, on the basis of the instructions of the primary health care physician, the healthcare institution in which the insurance company is sent must provide the patient with a service within 30 days. Furthermore, unless the institution is able to provide the patient with a new period of time, examinations, surgery, hospitalisation, director of the institution on the back of the manual must set a new deadline within the next 30 days. So the health care facility is required to solve the patient based on the manual for the longest period of 60 days. Unless the institution has taken care of the patient within that period, the office of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance must find another institution that will receive the patient at the request of the insurance company. Did I quote the rules correctly? I did. That's what the rules say. Now give me the information, Mr. Bacic. How many cases in this country have been since you were president of the HZZO Management Council where HZZO was 61 days from the day the patient first reported to the hospital, a second institution was found where he was given a service according to the manual. Just give me the number. Not by cities, not by county, the total number that was done while you chair the Governing Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32893	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32894	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Here, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act of the IDS Club supports it. It is certainly positive that insurance, i.e. healthcare users, should be allowed to know in a transparent way what their rights, conditions and ways of achieving these basic health insurance rights are. Even more so in Article 2. We at the IDS Club think that maybe even a six-month deadline is too long, so that this could be done in a short time, given today's computing of HZZO. I disagree that this would require some great cost because printing solutions is not such a great cost. And it seems to me that it goes all the way to that the less insurance companies know, the better it is for HZZO, because of course it's only going to cost less. The establishment of order always costs the most. In my opinion and the IDS Club, this proposal can only put out a fire in one segment of this complex problem. Croatia needs a full health insurance reform because practically all health problems stem from a poor concept of health insurance. One such reform surely requires much effort, time, and considerable material resources. All relevant experts from this area should be included and the experience of all other countries should certainly be used maximum, especially those in transition. Perhaps we should look up to our Slovenian neighbours who have good solutions in many segments of health insurance even though they have learned from their own mistakes. For example, 10 years ago they introduced a 5-75% participation, but it has been shown that few can pay for such participation and additional health insurance has been introduced, but the premiums have also proved too high for the majority of the population. Now they've introduced four paying classes so the poorest will pay four times less insurance premiums. So reverse redistribution in favor of the poor, unlike that of the previous proposal that went to the wealthy. Furthermore, hospital funding has been resolved in a completely different way. They abolished funding on hospitally supplied days and introduced payment by diagnosis. Which, according to us, IDS is the best model. Why is that? So far, not all increases in the limit have always proved effective. Maybe it's the best indicator if you go explain yourself in the case of a maternity home. Births that did not have a sufficient number of births extended maternity leave to get the funds they thought they should have back. Or sometimes when for surgery, cremation lay in the hospital for six days now it can be done in day surgery. So it is certainly just that these operations are paid by diagnosis, not by the days they were conducted at the hospital. Because that's how about 70% of patients go home the same day. What's that got to do with it? In Slovenian hospitals, lying in hospitals was reduced by 30% and 32% of beds were released, which means it automatically shortens the waiting for order to hospital. In this way, Slovenians stopped the growth of health deficits. They've also been reforming drug policies. Of course, they failed to immediately reduce the price of medicines, but they managed to curb the rise in drug prices and slowly reduce that percentage of drug prices. The drug prices went up 18%, they were able to reduce them to 8%. After these measures, Slovenians got a more efficient health care that costs less. That is why we at the IDS Club are urging the Ministry of Health to start a systematic reform of health insurance in order to give Croatian citizens the health care they deserve. The citizens of this beautiful one can't wait much longer, both for the examinations and for the hospital bed, without talking about installing orthopaedic aids. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the IDS Club supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act because it contributes to a better knowledge of the insurance companies themselves of their rights in health care. In my presentation, I did not even touch perhaps HZZO, which is actually the biggest problem in Croatia. We in the IDS advocate that health care agencies should be decentralised as they used to be and be responsible for the area in which they operate. The brochure is certainly a good thing to inform health insurance companies, but we do not think it will improve the health care itself in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32895	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32896	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This Law has been in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament for almost half a year. I don't know how it is to assess who can justify whether an excuse can be sought in the fact that the Proposer of this Law is an opposition club, but I don't even want to see it that way. But it seems to me that the serious problems of Croatian health in this way are persistently and consistently trying to put under the rug. Yesterday we talked here about some rights or needs of disabled people, their rehabilitation and employment. However, the public had almost heard nothing about it and almost no one had reported it because the debate took place in the shadow of a hearing of some kind there, special working groups related to spies, spying, and such things. Today we are discussing again, the true God in front of the ears of the public, but still not in front of the public about something that is the elemental need of every citizen who, however we think about it, is definitely threatened, definitely unreachable to those who need it. It is only available to those who are healthy, and everyone who is ill would have on their rights and obligations to the state, the HZZO, the Ministry or some health care institution to say anything. However, I am afraid that today this debate will focus on some debate on red tape, whether it should or should not, whether it increases or reduces red tape. That this debate will be held today in the shadow of some investigative committee and some testimony about some semi-falsified or semi-falsified accusations or defenses. And that again the right patients, their elemental right to the moment when they need medical help to get it at that time. Not maybe the same second, because we're not rich enough or organized enough to be. But to get that health care until the moment their inaccessibility and protection begins to endanger their health and their lives. The fact is that due to limited material circumstances, those who implement the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act are eager to find an excuse or have reason not to provide health care. Because unfortunately, the health system, the health care service doesn't pay. The worst are those who strive to provide patients with what is the Health Insurance Act with a solution or without a solution declared rights. On the contrary, those who do, those who receive patients, those who do not have waiting lists, are denied that service. But those who reject patients in Croatia, in which institutions grow waiting lists, those who don't even have patients under the same law, and I would rather say by political demagogy, their costs are covered and paid. And it's a state that's not since yesterday in Croatia, it's a state that's been existing in Croatia for quite a long time from the moment when famous restrictions have been introduced that have nothing to do with the rights or obligations of patients, have nothing to do with what the law says, and it relates to providing health care. This is some quasi model of covering alleged solidarity and allegedly a 100% medical service or health care for the citizens of Croatia, or they are called insurance companies, but they are all before insurance or insurance systems that bear the mark of solidarity. And this is where the problem arises, from this persistent refusal to bring the system down to real relations, to real costs, and then that within the total necessary resources identified, it requires the possibility of rationalisation. And then normally it will be easier to stand before a patient, declare his rights and the way he proposes this Law. It is true that the issue of such solutions means a new pile of paper and a new obligation for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In the event of failure to comply with this decision to the patient, a whole series of additional obstacles to the burdens of some other administrative or not knowing what kind of courts. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we carry out our obligations to patients, then there will be no such dispute. And in today's conditions of technological opportunity, the conditions in which HZZO has a bunch of people who don't know what to do, then it seems to me that an excuse or an answer or an argument that would reject this Law if it were an additional bureaucracy really didn't stand. I agree with the recent conclusion that the health insurance system will not be significantly improved only by such minimalist repairs, which are actually required by the lack of wish in the Croatian Institute itself that even without such administrative solutions it provides a better option for the availability of healthcare services. However, only real analysis, the right to face the problem in relation to the shortcomings in our health insurance system can solve or begin to solve the problem. I think that in the previous period it was started to solve this problem exactly the way, there were many ways, but one way was that we started introducing in the Croatian Health Insurance System payment by GDR, i.e. by diagnosis. But it's stopped again. That's what I care about again. Again, this system is not being developed and still institutions abuse hospital days to cover their basic costs of treating patients, as the healthcare service is under-diagnosed by individual diagnosis that it does not really cover the actual costs of treatment at all. And then the facilities are going through all sorts of things, every so much lifts up, creates some kind of affair, and every so much goes into some kind of inspection, then at the end or answers the hospital director for it, or answers, I don't know the head of some department, because it's found that I don't know they haven't invoiced exactly right, and so there's always an illusion in one cycle about how we have a super health system, but there's too many people getting sick or electing too many drugs, and then we're sitting where we are. And then the thing comes down to completely wrong stories, then it's about rationalising the health insurance system, so it's like an argument that something isn't working right, it's all about the sheets, and then it turns out that they're actually sheets, not the problem of funding diagnostics, the problem of financing patients' treatment, or the problem of keeping them in the hospital a lot longer than it's supposed to be some serious problem. Then, in the Croatian public, there are really some unusual thesis on how to centralize the procurement of peppers and tomatoes for all health institutions in Croatia, so that about 25% will be added to this, and now all Croatia lives in anticipation or all patients in Croatia live in expectation that it will actually happen and that they will no longer wait for 6 months, which is not because we do not have enough doctors and appliances, but because doctors refuse them from year to year because they have to transfer certain patients from period to period, because the actual number of services provided to HZZO does not recognise them. And now it's the relationship between the facility and HZZO, and the patient here is blind and deaf, he knows everything, and he doesn't know anything. There are a hundred brochures, a hundred National Journals, all available to him, but he turns out to be illiterate, because they deceive him, because they're telling him nonsense instead of trying to show him the real circumstances, so to tell him, he's got to wait for some search, but he's got to wait as long after that as it says here, but he doesn't normally do it afterwards, you got to get that favor, because that's what you're paying for. I heard here today that it's now budget money, right? Well, we can technically, so right now, patients should actually be happy that by budgeting the government or the Parliament, they're making so much money for their health insurance. As that money goes through the budget and has been allocated, colleagues and colleagues, that money is paid by insurance companies, paid by patients, and they have to decide on how to spend it, and they need to know which or whatever time-limits the service must receive. It is said here today that it cannot be said that citizens are not informed, perhaps those who are sitting in HZZO and the Ministry of Health think so. However, citizens have just taken action that has been carried out, and the previous draft of this law has made it clear that they have no idea what their rights are when they come to the hospital. They know best that their rights, to stand in the halls, to wait, to be happy if they manage to meet the doctor they are looking for, they know very well that their rights and obligations are also public health care must be paid and paid. Unfortunately, not legally, but illegally. And therefore, more and more unfortunately, we are filled with regrets, unfortunately because they pay a health contribution, full of private institutions, unfortunately we continue to pay for health insurance, this basic health insurance, and health care when they necessarily need patients looking elsewhere and paying well for it. There are also a whole series of arguments that could be expressed in favour of patients not being informed and being deprived of health care because of the disorganization of the health system, because of the ignorance of those who run and manage the health system, because of demagogy and politics, because they are unable to offer the right solutions and therefore ask for the really consensus we offer but have nothing to give it to. It is high time that the health care service that we have on the basis of the social state is obliged to provide patients, to deal with the problems we have, they are not indecisive, they are highly resolute but must be resolved openly in one system, well-organised, well-supervised and not full of demagogy. And because of all this I said, the SDP will support the bill's proposal and continue to insist that we start and open the debate and discuss reforms and repairs and changes in the health insurance system as a whole very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32897	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Madam Representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well actually, before us is the Law, which is very short in just three articles. However, according to the letter from the law, the law is very significant. Through all my words, all my predecessors on this subject have been told almost everything, especially if we really want to stick to the subject of the debate, and the subject of the debate is just the amendments and additions to this Health Insurance Act. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club is considering the problem of health insurance insurance in Croatia in the same way as the representatives of clubs who have already said, apart from the fact that the representatives of the HDZ Club are, because the HDZ Club comes from another assumption, the illusion that the rights arising from health insurance are known to citizens. We know, not to think, but to know that health insurance rights are unknown. And precisely the greatest dangers to consume these rights stem from the ignorance of these rights. And because it is the fact that we can close our eyes to that fact as much as we want but the reality remains, the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports this Act. We find it strange for the government to say in its opinion the following: the rights of insured persons of the primary health care institution are generally not decided by a written solution, which is true, for the reasons that insured persons can exercise their rights directly on the basis of the absence of a health insurance person. Is that so, not that it seems, but the fact is that it isn't. It is true that the health insurance company declares that it has that status, however, it sometimes allows it to consume rights and most often not from the basic grounds that the health insurance entity must rest on the principles of savings and does not start from not being a free service, that it is not a service financed from the state budget, that is a service paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or insurance companies through payment of contributions. We are informed here that it is for the purpose of meeting, because in a similar way we discussed the Law on Patients' Rights and we said that the Law would remain a dead letter on paper because patients do not know their rights, so then we concluded the Croatian Parliament that a brochure was printed and that brochure was printed in only 200 thousand copies, distributed to branches or I don't know what it's called anymore. Now it is only a question of how much this brochure has reached our citizens, certainly in 200 thousand copies it could not have reached citizens and especially not because it was distributed through the branch office of the Croatian Health Insurance Office, and about the courtesy and service of some people employed in health insurance is the following example. I witnessed one example when a lady came to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute counter, and to verify those printers for glasses, nothing less than glasses. The lady happy because there's no traffic on the counter says thank you for not cursing, that shows that people are kind, that they are God-fearing, that they will give direction and that their problem will quickly be solved. And her handing over these printers and her health card through that window, the window closes, the lady on the other side picks up on that screen, she's got her printers coming in and she's definitely visiting and she's having a conversation, so she's talking, and we're drinking coffee, and we're all looking through the counter, and it's starting to go on for an hour and a half, and the lady before me and I'm waiting and we're waiting for an hour and a half, and after an hour and a half, that magic door opens up the card, and then this little window pops through that window, and the window closes again. But madam wait, don't close up and calmly say, you don't need to be cursed, you need to be hanged. And the lady on the other hand says, "Ma'am, you don't need to treat your eyes, you need to treat your head." Communication completes. Here's a picture and an opportunity to serve some of our employees who need to inform us about the rights that come from our health insurance. To prevent cases like this, in this case I personally testified in this case I personally testified to the lady and recognized me, but I stood in line and waited for it to end regularly. So neither was it a reason to really join what its work obligations require. We believe that the adoption of this law will make a significant contribution and the satisfaction of our citizens who are dissatisfied with the health care system not only because the quality of health care is not equal with the countries we are seeking, but also because we do not know the rights that come from health insurance. If we knew the rights that come to us, we would find ways and ways to consume those rights. And believe that a man who is forced to seek a doctor's service is a very sensitive person, and with these people should really be approached in a special way because even when it is done all by conscience to be the correctest and best of course it is often perceived that it is not so and remains dissatisfaction. If, therefore, we want a significant contribution to eliminating this dissatisfaction to support the proposal to amend the health insurance law. Because he at least strengthens us that our citizens will know what rights they have on the basis of what was paid by refusing to contribute from their salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32899	Thank you very much. This really is one example, so let me comment. This should also be heard by the ministry's representatives and measures taken to ensure that such things do not happen to 2 hours of people waiting. It would still be interesting if we had determined the party's belongings to them. Mr. Pero Kovacevic on behalf of HSP. Here's the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32900	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The HSP club supports this bill as a contribution to the health debate and we know the situation ourselves. The situation is more than alarming to provide healthcare services. What are all the problems in this area present and how the rights are realized we know and we ourselves here and mostly patients who are waiting and waiting for health care services and some unfortunately do not welcome because we know that for certain health tests we have to wait for over 6 months and the man does not get in line at all. Therefore, the situation is more than alarming, but we are now particularly concerned about it. We are concerned that part of the election campaign for local elections is starting on the ground, and now there are promises to build new hospitals on the ground. Here's only I can speak from the point of view of your electoral second electoral unit the Belarusian hospital is moving again with announcements you'll get a new hospital. And we know for ourselves that just for a project for the Belarusian hospital, the current leadership has paid just over two hundred thousand kunas for an idea project. We know ourselves what kind of debt they're in, and we know what kind of relationship they're in, that even by hiring retired lawyers. And other situations, how many unhealthy workers are far more than this. And now he's promising people, so you're gonna get a new hospital. So who are we lying to? Who are we lying to? We're lying to patients. So when we talk about the health situation, I'd like to ask nicely for a pre-election campaign, let's not lie to people. Let's say what's the situation and what's the facts. The same situation the other day I was in Koprivnica I had... a day. Mr. Gršić is also coming to see Mr. Bandic, who promises that the Koprivnica hospital will become a county hospital. That's a lot of irresponsible behavior. And he promised that he would still help in terms of exporting ties to Hungarian and all other things. So let's get back to the situation. I know it's not. How's he gonna make it real county? Yeah. It's a real county. Listen, and now we're coming into such a situation. We must also be aware of the fact that the health situation was more than difficult when the former coalition government took over the situation. But the current health reorganisation was made during the former government. And that's a big problem for people to be present. Let's say for example, Chazema was once home to health where effective primary protection was provided. After this reorganisation, everything went to the county hospital, for example, in Bjelovar. And the situation is such ask the doctors who work there, that people are coming abandoned in terms of providing secondary protection. So our biggest problem with this is the primary protection, because unfortunately all patients when they come are already in a state of far more difficult than primary protection acting in the way that both law and regulation must act. If you take how much you owe the hospital to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. If you take what's the problem with the drugs. We know the situation itself that a number of drugs are being dumped. Therefore, all these facts suggest that one reform should be made which will be in the function of the patient in the function of the citizens and so that the rights are achieved effectively. It is time for us to have primary protection, that the homes of health in the former, say, municipalities that existed are qualified to provide primary protection on a full scale. And that in this we also act on the constitution because we in the Constitution have been told the exercise of the right to health care, the social state and everything else. So we don't have this part happening to us, because as we move forward, we know what the World Bank's pressures are that health care will be as much as health care pays. We know what our situation is. Our people are getting poorer. Therefore, there are major problems, and especially when we come, you saw for yourself what the legislative plan was for compliance with the European Union's gains, we also have new obligations that will be even more difficult for Croatian citizens to achieve their health care. So on behalf of the HSP Club, I say we support this proposal. But we are asking all irresponsible politicians not to promise people that they will make new hospitals for them, that overnight during the month when that election campaign will come up with all the problems. And after that, we'll go back to this situation so patients can't exercise their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32901	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mrs. Zeljka Antunović. We didn't register at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32902	I wanted to correct the incorrect allegations of a colleague referring to the status of a Koprivnica hospital. I don't know who did what he said, but the Koprivnica Hospital is a county hospital. The hospital that, with the support of the county and the town of Koprivnica significantly improved its service to patients, made significant steps in reorganising its business. A county hospital that has been Satanized by the Ministry of Health for the past year, and now former Minister Hebrang. Which denied its further development even though it shows positive steps and results and is a true county hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32903	Please don't fix it, then talk about the former health minister. There's been enough talk about him and too much. Too much with some kind of exaggeration. So now at 10:53, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. I haven't forgotten, but I don't want you to forget this word. And Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakoštanec corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the first time in my life, I've come forward with the circumstances that you haven't seen me for a correction, but I'm also going to correct the alleged basic exposure and the allegation to say so, which are completely untrue. So I repeat. Koprivnica hospital is a county hospital that is accidentally located in the town of Koprivnica, as is the headquarters of a centralized health home consisting of Križevci, Đurđevec and Koprivnica. In this Koprivnica besides the county's funds which are much smaller than those invested by the state based on the pilot project, health reform and decentralised funds that have been discussed and written for many years signed by the former HDZ government, you can see that there is also a coalition of the World Bank's observations and on its website how this pilot project ran in 2000 to 2003 and how it is being run today. So this county hospital, under the circumstances, is a major construction site today, and because of the change of government projects that are in Koprivnica, and not HDZ's, patients have great difficulties, so I hope that they will soon be resolved by the basis of the contracts that have been signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32905	Thank you. We've spread a little bit the same as... We're moving on to an individual debate. Before that, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32906	Thank you very much. Since the clubs have finished their debate, I want to thank the IDS, SDP, HSS and HSP clubs for supporting this bill and I want to believe that most of the MPs will support this proposal regardless of what the government has given a negative opinion. I spoke before about insurance to insurance companies, so the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance towards insurance companies in Croatia, which is about 3.5 million to me. If HZZO had an insurance service, if it had a special free phone number, you know the 0800 and then on, maybe then people in HZZO would find out why there are waiting lists in Croatian hospitals for more than six months. They might get information on why there's so much resistance to working in two shifts in diagnostic parts of medical institutions hospitals. Why do such extremely expensive devices as magnetic resonances, CTs, new X-rays that I don't now count, work on only one shift we bought on loans from either the World Bank or our own debts? Why, for several years now, several health ministers have failed to introduce two-way work in diagnostics on these extremely expensive devices. Perhaps that service would answer the question, how is it that the most common answer to the waiting list is that the appliances are broken, but if it is paid that the service can be done within a few days? Perhaps this HZZO service would come up with an answer to the question that these are doctors who, rather than the manuals, provide a card card for private clinics or clinics where a service can be obtained by not putting it on the waiting list but immediately. Perhaps the service would also help the board and director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute not to solve the problem as a whole, but also to those where they come from. The information of the insurance companies themselves may also bring great savings in spending the money of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The other day I saw information in a newspaper that I could immediately agree was correct, that somewhere around one third of the medications after the end of therapy ended up in the trash. It's also an environmental problem, and we're polluting our environment, but that one-third of the drugs is about a billion kuna a year. So we throw about a billion kunas in the trash because we don't need it anymore and the insurance people have nowhere else to go with these drugs but toss them in the trash. But if HZZO had a service for insurance patients, you might also get the idea that to return medicines to a primary health care doctor or to a county pharmacy each insurance company gets a stamp or a tabon based on the release of the payment of participation and how much of these insurance companies, especially those who use more medicines, would accept such a call from the Croatian Health Insurance Office to empty their drawers, boxes and cabinets with medicines that no longer need to and after any discontinuation of therapy, return that medicine to either a pharmacy or a doctor, and in return the HZZO releases it from the participation. Billions of kunas have been dumped, and participation could only be a tenth of the funds. But since HZZO does not have such a service, there is probably no channel or possibility of such initiatives coming in, and then we are in a situation where we all testify that we are talking about spending too much money on health care in Croatia, that we spend this money irrationally, and in the end, the only insurance companies and patients are you who are being damaged or trying to save. How come we never do those cuts at those places and points where we all know the most needed costs come from. I appeal to the leadership of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Now, right now and here, turn to the insurance companies, open up the possibility of free phone communication, you'll see what a great benefit that will be. Don't say it to bureaucratic regulations and practices, about it costing something because every time we do it, it comes back more than double. I'm using the opportunity and the presence of the secretary of state to ask him, I might get an answer, whether the ministry, your ministry, respected the conclusion of this House and prepared a brochure on the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and whether and whether that brochure was distributed on the ground. I remind you that in the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, the Parliament reached such a conclusion, the Minister of Health accepted it and asked whether the brochure was ready. And for now, just this. I call on all insurance companies of the Croatian Health Insurance Office to look for this guide in their waiting rooms, primary healthcare hospitals because they have the right to do so. It has been said that this book has been distributed into 200,000 copies. All those who want to get this, and in their offices they don't have to call me on the phone number 4569-536, the MP club and I will personally forward their data to HZZO with a request that these book insurance companies be made available, so please let the insurance companies report because they have a right to this book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32907	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I can see that you've been a little lively, but no one has raised a single plate for any violation of the Rules of Procedure or for correcting an incorrect quote. It might be more useful to intervene like that. Let's have an individual debate for 10 minutes, and let's have a meeting with Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. First of all, I can't get the impression that that table thank you for not cursing, which Mrs. Ljubica Lalić spoke of, which hangs by the counters of many health institutions there is not just because of the Christian views of those who set it up, but because those who put it there feel that the curse is a natural way of communicating with them behind the glass. In fact, the natural urge that occurs in people when they have to come into any contact with them, the reason for the bill is extremely simple. There needs to be a legal relationship because the relationship between the patient and HZZ is actually between citizens until the patient and HZZ is nothing but a legal relationship. A citizen pays because he pays a favor, but he needs to know what service, what service, what standard, where. He needs to know what he's right about, which he has no right to. So where there is this in other social relations that I pay for something and that the one who pays me for it needs to deliver some service changes the terms of delivery of that service, the standard of that service and not informing me of that means that it violates the provisions of the basic contract. This is a legal relationship, it needs to be seen as a legal relationship and it needs to be regulated as a legal relationship. There has been a disagreement between the motionor and the government's representatives over whether citizens are informed about their rights or not. Proposer argues they are not an informed government representative saying they are informed, citizens know their rights. In some ways both are right, citizens are informed of their rights if they study HZZO regulations. They're exactly 17. In order for a citizen to know his rights, he must know in detail, I will not read them all, he must know in detail the rules on the rights and conditions and how to exercise the right of basic health insurance, and then the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the rights and conditions and how to exercise the right of basic health insurance and the following Regulation on amendments to the Regulations on the conditions and arrangements for the exercise of the right of basic health insurance. He must also know the rules on orthopaedic and other aids, and then the Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on orthopaedic and other aids, and then the following Regulation on additions to the Regulation on orthopaedic aids. And when it comes to medicines, then the matter becomes comical, because in order to be fully addressed to its drug rights, the citizen has to know the decision to determine the list of medicinal products of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and then the decision to amend and supplement the List of Medicinal Products, and the new Decision to amend and supplement the List of Medicinal Products, and the next Decision amending and supplementing the List of Medicinal Products Decision, and the last in a series of Decision amending and supplementing the decision setting out the list of medicinal products and the Government says that citizens are well informed. They did. When they study all this, they're well informed, it's a way of informing citizens who are proposing governments. Is the relationship between HZZO and the patient arranged, and whether it should be arranged, it's a pointless question, it's a pointless question because it simply has to be arranged. Any resistance to editing this relationship is incomprehensible. Look what happened in that famous hospital director's cut, right after the new government arrived, was resented by hospital directors who invoiced HZZO more than a limit. Simplifiedly, HZZO signed a contract with the hospital to do 100 hospital patients received 110 patients, so the directors blamed that they received those 10 patients through the contract, so they invoiced too much, so they didn't work rationally, so they should be chased away, that's what happened to them. As for the patient who's singled out for his treatment. As far as he's concerned about the contract between the hospital and the HZZO and what he would suffer, if the future director is afraid that a new minister does not appoint him a new board of directors and does not chase him because he received 5 patients too, he as a patient because he pays in HZZO is entitled to a service, regardless of what the contract is between the hospital and HZZO. What to say about the situation when it comes to X-ray diagnostics, something the promoter said about it, it has to wait for months for some kind of magnetic resonance because the minister, the minister, doesn't allow the purchase of new appliances, and the old ones are broken or out of date, and the patients are then sent for private diagnostic processing, on machines that work, it's the only thing you have to pay 2000 kuna. I will not talk about the former minister being advertised in such a private diagnostic clinic, his name and last name were advertised by that private diagnostic clinic, but how could HZZO not notice that, how could the Ministry of Health not notice that it was a daily practice. Well, then, how he forbids hospitals to get new diagnostic equipment, unless he wants to encourage the profits of those in the private sector. When the government rejects this legal proposal, it actually says that it does not want to regulate this relationship, it does not care to settle this relationship. Why? Well, probably because it stops this area of arbitrary action, it stops hunting into the cloudy and potential of this hunt. I think this legal proposal is a good start for a logical relationship to regulate this relationship as logical between citizens and HZZO. I think he's a good start for a philosophy to worry about his own health. Look, a smoker is exposed daily to a higher risk of disease, of course, and when he gets sick, he's treated for HZZO, and tobacco excise duties go into the state budget and have no special purpose. If they were to focus on the prevention of smoking or the treatment of smoking-induced diseases, then that relationship would be logical. The person who smokes the salary of a higher cost is at greater risk but will also pay his increased cost of treatment through the excise duty. Because if 20 years of smoking, then let's figure out how much they're going to pay in HZZO, but then the excise charge should go not to the state's register, but directly to the HZZO's account, and it should be used for these purposes. Then the relationship between the citizen of the one receiving the service and the HZZ would make the service logical. Then we could build on such a legal proposal, including provisions on care for our own health or on the rational use of medicines that the promoter spoke of. We could edit it and upgrade it to perfection but certainly to the extent that it would guarantee protection for patients on the one hand and, on the other hand, impose a logical obligation on HZZO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32909	Thank you very much. The next representative is Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32910	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have one before us to say a small law of only three articles but in fact a law that will ultimately give a very significant contribution to the information of Croatian citizens, i.e. the information of patients or health insurance users, on their rights. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia receives a health card issued by the Health Insurance Institute and has been followed throughout his life, only the status of the insurance company or the basis under which that status belongs is changed. Health card is an I.D. that allows us to exercise our rights as patients or to exercise the rights that belong to us from basic health insurance. Who determines and decides on the rights that belong to us as users of basic health insurance? They are determined and decided by the Institute of Health Insurance, which also issues a health card and the scope of the rights and protection of insurance undertakings is determined by a series of legal regulations and decisions published in the National Journal. Does the health insurance user know what his rights are when he presents his health card in a health care facility? Most often the average citizen does not know it or is only superficially familiar with his rights. A large number of health insurance users do not even know the amount their employer is obliged to allocate each month to pay for his health insurance. And why doesn't the insurance guy know that? He does not know why Article 104 of the current Health Insurance Act is prescribed, I quote, in paragraph 1, "The basic health insurance rights are decided by the institution as a rule without a solution.". Really, it doesn't make any sense for a decision like this. After all, when we make any insurance such as insurance of property, life insurance or other types of insurance, we get a solution and we know very well what our rights are but also what our obligations result from these rights. If you don't know what your rights are, how will you know if any of these rights are partially or completely denied? Such a situation is extremely suitable for different malfeasances, for short guarantees of guaranteed rights, so if you want such a condition, the soul has also given for the flowering of corruption. There is no man who is not sensitive to the health of his or her loved ones. When we get into a situation where we need to look for health care, we're too burdened with this situation in our head to think that we're asking around what our rights are as a health care user so that we can determine whether some of our respective rights are denied or violated. So if we don't know how we're going to seek the protection of our rights that someone has denied us. The proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which is ahead of us, want to avoid exactly these situations that I have talked about, or insurance, would ensure that their rights are made available and thus reduce the possibility of non-compliance with arbitrary decision-making and thus increase the level of legal certainty in this area. There we absolutely agree with what counterpart Lesar used to say, that often insurance companies, regardless of what their health insurance covers, are simply forced to pay because we have a situation where when they come to their doctor, when they come to their home or in the hospital, then they are told that there is no room to wait for, but also at the same time they are referred to a private institution where for their money, the same search will be quite expensive. So I'm going to repeat once again what I've done in some way or made recommendations or guidelines to the Department of Health Insurance, to make hospital controls, to the homes of health, to establish the real use of the apparatus's capacities to provide certain searches, certain services to see if these crowds are real, realistic, or they are deliberately artificially created to make someone else benefit from it. My colleague Stazic was talking about the X-rays. In the House of Health Makarska was a situation that for months the x-ray had not worked, patients were forced to go either to Split or somewhere private to do their tests because there was no money to fix the problem. And, note, the County of Split-Dalmatia Health House is properly receiving funds decentralised, but these decentralised funds to end-users, meaning health homes on the ground arrive to say so on the hood, i.e. in very small quantities, and then these repairs have no priority and cannot be corrected on an up-to-date basis. In this same home of health mammographer who was obtained exclusively by humanitarian actions did not first work for months and now works with very limited capacities, only four patients a day because there is no shift work or no team to cover the afternoon work. And I would also mention something that is very important, which is that this home of health was built by actually citizens of the Macarian coast with self-dependence, most of the self-dependence. So, they've been deprived some of the funds from their income to provide themselves with adequate health care and are now in a position to bid on maternity survival for a long time, with the survival of the stationary. For what? Maybe it's because someone in those very nice spaces sees maybe tomorrow some kind of private polyclinic. And there's a lot of such examples, and these are all examples that actually talk about how patients' rights are respected. We passed the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. How are we going to seek the protection of our rights if we don't know what these rights are? We discussed the National Consumer Protection Programme. The patient, or the health care user, is a highly sensitive consumer category. If, during these discussions, we Parliamentarians or government as a proponent of the acts mentioned seriously thought and wanted them to live in practice, then we support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act because its adoption of Croatian citizens will indeed enable them to protect their rights as patients or as consumers. users of health services. That is why I find it unacceptable, unacceptable to have individual members of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, which is, among other things, mentioned in the Government's opinion, which stated among other things that the proposed solution is contrary to the principles of economicism because the issue of a solution would result in significant material costs. The reason is really banal. Every man has the right to be aware of all his rights and obligations stemming from those rights. Therefore, we support this Law that is before us and thus show that we are serious and that we are not only making legal regulations to bring them here, but we want to enable them to come together in practice, and I note one more issue of health and a very important issue for all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32911	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32912	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There's a series of incorrect allegations. One thing is, a colleague seems to have read the Law on Patients' Rights, not the one we're discussing today. This Law does not inform patients of his rights, but the Law on patients' rights. It's incorrect that there's no means to repair the apparatus. You know that every apparatus in hospitals and facilities is thus secured by the insurance company. It is incorrect for hospital doctors to direct patients to private patients because they do not currently have machines or anything else. In this section, because the doctor must determine what the priority is and what is urgent. If there's anything urgent, then he'll certainly be able to do that search at that hospital right now. If he's not, he can wait in that hospital. If a patient asks to do so on the same day or in two days, he will surely be directed into private practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32913	Thank you very much. The following is the debated representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32914	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I wanted to be brief, but now that these discussions have shown that there is essentially no discussion here about the segment of health insurance but more about the Health Protection Act. So all the problems the health care system has and no one denies them. However, I would now return briefly to what I did not mention in my presentation as a representative of the Club, again to the lack of information of citizens because the survey has been said that people do not even know how much they stand out for health care and so on. It simply doesn't stand because for many years now, as all employees receive a salary report, gross wages, there is very clean and clear how much they stand out for health care and pension and all the other benefits they have. Therefore, all employees, and they are the ones who pay the contributions. Only they pay for all 4 million, over 4 million residents. Therefore, it is the basis of everything, and therefore solidarity is the basis of compulsory insurance, and therefore this story of issuing solutions cannot be legally justified. I've already said that, but I'd like to go back to some questions that were raised here. Mr. Lesar said about how much intervention there was, complaints and so on and how the Croatian Institute reacted to that. So the Statute of the Institute and the Health Insurance Act state exactly that two-stage resolution of complaints. First-degree complaints have several thousand. However, second-degree complaints have only 600ths of a year to be resolved by the Croatian Institute's central directorate. If you take this relationship from a few thousand and first-degree complaints to the number of cases that come to your doctor, and in primary protection comes to you about 25 visits have an average primary protection rate of around 680 to 700 thousand, on average, in recent years of patients being treated in hospitals. According to this large number, there is one percent of complaints from dissatisfied citizens, dissatisfied patients, and that is the percentage we should not boast about, but which is not so worrying that the whole story of health care is not good. The health system is burdened with all problems, and they are primarily organisational and financial. The health funding system is a problem that we will have to discuss and that we will have to decide in this House one day what we want? Whether we want everyone to have the right to do everything according to the current model or we're going to narrow that basket down and load each individual when he gets sick to co-finance his treatment. It is a political decision and this House will not be able to escape one day from that decision. But that's the thing of the future. Now we have what we have. Models were mentioned in Slovenia. Their examples and wanderings, how they had some kind of solutions that didn't show up best with participation. But I would remind you of one thing. In Slovenia, the Croatian Institute, theirs, not the Croatian Institute, but the Slovenian cash register, was only a year in the budget system and exited. We have since 2002, our Croatian Institute is a budget item. He practically doesn't have any independence. It does not function as a Croatian state-owned insurance company that should have entirely other ingenuities and a completely different attitude towards the patient. So then the story of limitations would be completely different. The budget law and the implementation of the state budget requires exactly this model, a limit that must not be exceeded. It's the law. If you do that, it's a crime. Therefore we are in an abnormal state, I must say so myself and I personally this model where the Croatian Institute in the Budget System does not support and I believe if we want to do something good to make money out of contributions as... pays no matter how much that figure will be compared to gross national income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it's 8% or 10%. Like Germany has, for example, so no one asks why Germany stands out 10%, and we're asking ourselves the question that we stand out too much. I don't think so. Because for what the Croatian citizens get, we have so much to take out of this class. That's the facts. So we can now politicize about it, too, whether we're better organized or not, but the fact that we've been through a lot of stages and the way the services were paid was a blue book, the price of times services, has shown its inadequacies. We also went on diagnosis payments. It's not true we stopped. This year, a new 56 diagnostic payment procedures were introduced. It was done by that famous group of workers who started our reform there in 2000, spent a lot of money and we don't know what they got. And just the story of the Koprivnica hospital is a sad story where huge money was spent on intellectual services, not on, building and putting in order of this, Koprivnica hospitals. So that's why this gentleman who, I can't remember his name now, came up on the World Bank's blacklist that, that he practically abused his position and accused him of any kind of shop, I'm not going to mention them now. So we'd better not open the discussion now about the hive model. The story, the story of us dealing with a variety of health issues about how we're now calling some directors what they've been spending, so health control is a basic postulate. All over the world, so it has to be with us. We can't get away from that problem. What happened in 2002? When the system entered the budget there was also a famous Payments Regulation and the Investment Act was passed. So the famous "7 billion over 7 years", funds were provided for construction, equipment purchases, salaries were secured but no one accounted for the use of material in health care. The huge debts that met us now in early 2004 have accumulated, and this was to be resolved. So, to say who's more or less guilty now, I mean now it's groundless because we're completely out of the question, but unfortunately, in these discussions, it's all been mentioned now, and nobody's focused on the very proposal of this, the amendment of the law given by the HNS Club of PGS. He went on a model of issuing a solution. I said and now I repeat that it is impossible to implement, not even legally possible, and with good will it is not legally possible because it has a mass of restrictions, it cannot be written in one solution that someone has an average right to 7 recipes. You can't write that. Ask the lawyers. It can't even be written from what we are now in the budget, so all obligations which in various disputes or non-execution cease 31. 12, no more, I can't be transferred to another year. I mean, there's a lot of things that say that that way, even though it's a good thing, it's all good for everyone to know, but it's impossible to implement. Besides, it collects things. That's why, even now in an individual debate, I don't think this law can be implemented, and I personally won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32915	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32916	Well, I'd like to open up a final debate in this Parliament on a health reform pilot in Koprivnica-Crysing County. To finally tell the citizens that this is not the fluidity of the government from January 3, 2000, but that the contract was ratified in this Assembly in Suziv until 2000, that the contract with the World Bank was signed by HDZ Health Minister Professor Rainer. That the contract provides that it will be used to withdraw funds to use consulting services and the way in which these consulting services will be obtained. That by 2001 the mayor was from HDZ and supported it, and when HSS, SDP came to power in the county and in the city, the first question we asked was the issue of the famous contract and the huge amount used for intellectual services. And we asked for it to change. Unfortunately, it was not possible to change because the parliament was said to have adopted the contract and to have the power of the law. So that's something we're talking about. Don't transfer to us, especially not to the locals what was brought in this House until 2000. I still think it could've been done differently and I think they could've done it, pinched the money on it. But Mr. Gomez, or Bic Hel Keri, got a contract at an international competition. What was that contract for? Professor Reiner drew up the panel for the selection of the consultant. So that's the data to talk about. But it would be good to open the question here why a contract on the construction of an internal, where the World Bank loan will build the ground floor and second floor, and the basement and second floor, and ground floor of the contract concluded with the Ministry and where the same is the case with this government's representative in the commission and they chose the performer. Yeah? That's what we need to talk about, and let's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32917	Comrade Mršić, excuse the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32918	Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32919	I forgive you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32920	I got carried away.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32921	Replicate response, MP Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32922	Well, I think I, I understand fellow Mršić that he is experiencing this in his own way because he is the mayor of the city where that hospital is, and I'm sure the topic of health reform and the hive model deserves one debate, and it's absolutely not me who personally thinks that the Koprivnica hospital should be punished because it was, which was a model of a project that didn't prove successful. But the fact is one thing. If something went wrong during HDZ, there until 2000 and it turned out wrong, it can be corrected. But it didn't work out. Huge money has been spent, and you know those tourist trips to Australia, etc. Well, your mayor was against it, too. They were doctors in primary protection against it, but then suddenly they changed their minds, and I don't know why, right? Therefore, I am to discuss it, I would not now enter into an assessment of the guilt of the individual of this or that. But the fact that huge money was intended for that, and that most of the money was spent on intellectual services, that's tragic. I am to have this debate and to complete it and the hive hospital must be completed, it is without, a question that is not even asked. But you have to find models to bridge it now because you can't break the law. That's the problem. The law must not be broken, because the Health Protection Act now says, unfortunately, what is decentralised means, how is that available? Those are restrictions. I admit they're not good, but they are. As long as the law is like that, we must respect it. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32923	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Let's move on with the debate. You cannot correct Mršić with the best will when you have a reply to the replica, which is quite clear in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32924	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are discussing a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act submitted by the CNS Club of the PGS, which is the basic essence of giving each institution's security company a solution that recognises the status of the insured person, and that it should also be added to the general acts of the institution which determines the rights, conditions and means of exercising the right of basic health insurance. Here I am, in discussions and clubs and individual debates, taking the view that this will make a significant contribution to patient information, i.e. insurance on their rights, and in fact help them to make their rights easier. I can also say responsibly as a doctor and as a head of a medical institution, and even as a patient that this really will not contribute to any patient's information, I could say no better information to patients, nor will it facilitate their exercise of these rights. Here's Mr. Stazic said and read here, so now I'm not saying all those decisions, the rules and that, which are legal acts of the institution. And if the Croatian Institute delivered this to me regularly to all insured persons, I think I really don't know who would have been able to read it all, who would have been expert in interpreting it all to himself. Often we doctors ask for the opinion of someone else who knows better and better to interpret it. And I think it would really cause only one, one general mess and contribute, although patients are even less familiar with their rights. That's why I find this proposal completely irrational, unacceptable and inconclusive. Is this the kind of health insurance we have right now and health care that is based on solidarity where we don't have a particular basket of basic health insurance and where virtually everyone has the right to everything, I think these kind of changes to the law, if you could discuss Mr. Mrs. Grić, no. So that the proposed changes don't contribute. Because in fact, the status of an insured person is proven by one health card, and when you have that health card, you practically enter into the health care system and realize both at the primary and secondary level and at the territorial level of the amount, in fact according to the indication and as required by the competent doctor and determines, and often in agreement with patients. There's been talk here that patients, they say they don't know very much, even if they don't have a clue and they don't even know who to ask. And even a worrying claim was made that if their doctor explained it to them, why would they believe that it was their right to do so. So please, doctor-patient relationship, just the basis of this relationship is trust one thing. We believe what the patient says and we have a diagnosis on it and we are starting treatment in a large part, and I also think that if he doesn't trust his doctor then it's a seriously impaired relationship and that it's still difficult to treat that doctor. There's a lot of mention of waiting lists here. In fact, we've moved from amending the law, we've moved on to the exercise of health insurance and health care rights, and it's mentioned that we're waiting for a week or two or more months. And I don't think that's desirable, and it's not a question of waiting. However, we must say that surely this waiting list does not deviate from the waiting list and in other countries that we often look up to. And we need to actually look at our health system in the conditions in which it works, and I can responsibly say that it is an appropriate organised health system and that many other systems might look up to it. I'm probably behind that, and I'm saying, when I talk about these conditions that we're in, then we have to say, let's say, in America, they're singled out for health care per capita over $4,000. That's us out of 450, is it 500, did we get to 5,000 because of this drop in value of dollars. If that were the case in Germany, say, over two thousand dollars, that in Slovenia, too, we trust them to single out one and a half times as much as we do. So in such a small separation and in fact one disproportionate between need and consumption and what we're setting out, that health system certainly works properly. That's where I would say that it works so well, and thanks to one real conscience and the sacrifice of all health care workers, health workers, especially health professionals. And if that were to be reflected in their low incomes, so as to compensate for all that consumption compared to isolation. So we have inaccessible low wages. Let's just say that on a general medical doctor he receives, he has a basic salary of about 5,000 kuna, specialist 6 and a half. Or let's just say that to bring that subject closer, here, I'll just read some items about how much the price of health care is. So let's say that we have a full spine recording costing 28 kuna, a mammography of 47 kuna, a thyroid operation that is now active because of these of our own, to cost about 95 kuna. Operation eye lens 165 kuna or surgery is a laryngotomy that our colleague Prgomet does, where a doctor specializes in 360 minutes second-hand doctor means, 180 minutes and nurse 360 minutes, and it costs a thousand and 200 kuna. And one, let's say, the repairman when he comes in, which his colleagues pointed out, about repairing the apparatus, when he comes to you, then he says that his captain is 65 euros. And we still have to pay him 35 euros because he spends his trip, pay him mileage, and pay him a living note. And then these relationships are between, signs of health, health care, health care employees and health care and spending. There may still be something I would refer to here, in fact, about everything that this amendment of the Law would cause, that is, how it is proposed to write these powerful ones, we share those acts to issue solutions, that these solutions should be issued by around 4 million and 300, that each year the application and the check-out is about a million and 200, so that it would all cost about 4 million kuna. And I think it's really just one mess that would be created in all of that so it doesn't get any results. And Dr. Bacic said that what we entered into the State budget was really unfavourable for us. We as health care institutions and as healthcare professionals did not support it the same way because we actually get everything on the basis of the services provided and so it would be good to correct it. And here, to say the least, means that these proposed changes, I don't think any positive shift in insurance information will be achieved and that it would facilitate the achievement of their health insurance rights. But I think there are other, far more efficient ways, and that's information, and here's good, info phones, so we have info kiosks, let's say, too. Well, this brochure and various other stands and everything that patients have the right to ask. And she'd still look back, says that in some cases patients buy drugs they should get. And I mean, you shouldn't be running away from it for certain that individual cases have it, but we also have to say that the Croatian Institute is very effective there and that every such return of money is being paid back and eventually comes from an institution that was obliged to issue such medicine or any other procedure. And when it comes to this, let me get back to this waiting question and why someone else can do it. Well, I don't think we should be running from one reality. That one who has achieved health care, if it is necessary to wait and the situation is regular, is in one stable phase, if not an emergency, it is always found to be over the line, to be admitted before. Because if that's what it requires, I don't see anything wrong with it if someone wants to come in for their diagnosis in a day and two to pay for it if they have options. So I think that, little of this entrepreneurial freedom in both health institutions and in health care, there is no need for the Priory to dispute. And here we go again, so I'm going to finish, in these changes and additions as proposed, I don't see any shifts in the information and exercise of patients' rights and insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32925	Thank you very much. It is up to representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32926	Dear Madam Vice President. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS. The main intensities of this Bill can be called into several sentences, as stated in the Government's opinion, i.e. the amendment to Article 104 is proposed. The Health Insurance Act. With the primary objective of providing the insured person with direct recognition of the status and written information on the rights, conditions and means of exercising the right of basic health insurance, and of issuing a written solution to all persons who have entered into force until the date of entry into force of the Act. The existing Law stipulates that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is to decide on the basic health insurance rights, that is, Article 104, as a rule, without making a solution, and that the solution is to be made when it is established by a general act or at the request of a person's insurance. The draft law amends the existing Law in such a way as to prescribe that the Office shall issue to each insurance undertaking a solution which recognises the status of the insured person and that an integral part of the solution shall be a general act of the Institute which determines the rights, conditions and method of the exercise of the right of basic health insurance. In short, it can be said that this Law would amend Article 104. The General Administrative Procedure Act. I believe that this Bill of Law of the HNS-PGS Club should not be accepted because such one, such an amendment of the Law would only lead to huge material costs and to a large administration that would cost the Croatian Institute and the Croatian State a great deal. And I can say that it seems to me that such a bill, it serves only to make the situation difficult in health care, not to make it easier. It would, in my opinion, be much more convenient and much better if the bill's proposals were to go in a sense that would allow for better financing of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, not to be burdened with costs that, for example, over 10 years could increase to 40, 50 million kuna. We have heard various complaints here, in general, about the functioning of Croatian Health and from the discussions that were there, it could be concluded that there are huge mistrusts in Croatian health, especially in Croatian doctors. I have to look back at this brochure where one representative said first that there was no brochure, and right after that brochure was shown to him he appealed to the entire population to look for that brochure, because he heard that it was printed in 200 thousand copies. It's probably so that the sooner she gets the grab, the sooner she spends, so the Bureau has to reprint to get as much cost as possible. For example, one MP mentioned the Magnetic Resonance and how doctors did not allow patients to search for it, but referred them to private offices or private polyclinics that have such apparatus. I have to say that the profession defines strictly, so only a specialist determines who has the right to the Magnetic Resonance and I can say one example of what it means in health care to allow a great deal of money spending. In the 1970s, the Federal Republic of Germany had their insurance companies that allowed their patients to complete, pay total dental care costs. And then it happened that Germany spent as much gold as the entire globe. And after a few years, all those rights failed, because those insurance companies couldn't handle such costs. Therefore, when adopting such laws, the possibility of the state must be considered, the possibility of the population to bear such costs. It is very easy to put one law and one bill of law on paper, but it must be kept in mind what environment we are living in and what are the possibilities of the Croatian state to pay for it and how many people work and pay in the Health Fund or pay taxes to make huge costs in health, and they increase much more every year compared to growth in the economy and growth in income of the state. Therefore, I do not think that this law should be adopted and that it should be done as the Government has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32927	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next to discuss Mirjana Brnadić, a representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32928	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will really focus on Article 104, where an amendment is proposed which, through direct recognition of the status of the insured person, would provide written information on the rights of the conditions and the way in which health insurance rights are exercised. My colleague Bačić, my colleague Lelic and other colleagues presented important reasons that do not contribute to such an amendment to Article 104, and I will present some more that point to the inability to adopt a solution, i.e. a general act as an integral part of that solution, which would determine the rights, conditions and means of exercising the right of basic health insurance. For example, most insurance workers are entitled to insurance by means of a working relationship. The recognition of this status cannot predetermin all the rights that belong to it, such as the provision of other family members when there is no knowledge of how many family members or how many of them there will be. Family leave, if he has it, he won't have it. Compensation for possible illnesses, right to treatment, treatment on a possible pathway, possible stay abroad, work abroad, right to medication, rights to death by a number of other rights established by law in various situations. And how to now issue a solution and special written information for anyone entering the insurance system, when in every branch of the Croatian Health Insurance Office, hundreds of demands of any health insurance rights and changes are daily. For example, today is a work relationship, a HZZO application is made, and a contract of work has been terminated for a short time. The deadline for issuing a solution under the General Administrative Procedure Act is 30 days, has the right to appeal, to wait for the power of the solution. And tomorrow, for an unemployed person, there are other health insurance rights. So, in one word, there is no solution that can cover all legal options, which is more so in most cases in application, and we have heard that, besides the Health Insurance Act and other acts, the Labour Act, the Law on Contributions, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, and we have heard 17 regulations, regulations, etc. Therefore, making a solution mandatory would cause other than administrative and large material damage to the Croatian Institute, which is also burdened with material problems. The promoter also says that 99% of the employees do not even know the separation rate, let alone the absolute amount of the monthly payment for health insurance, which its employer is obliged to allocate. I made sure it wasn't true. We all know, we're getting monthly salary cuts and there's a print on how much we're giving out for health and pension insurance. And for other categories of insurance companies, these are craftsmen, foreign pensioners, natural persons who pay themselves, the Tax Administration has taken over the collection of contributions for health insurance and the Tax Administration is making a decision on the base of the taxpayer to pay the contributions and the insuranceer knows what he pays and how much is the basis for a particular type of insurance. So in the IRS, a solution is made, there is an administrative procedure, there is an instruction on the legal remedy, it can file a complaint, so the whole procedure is transparent and can always be provided with information about what it is interested in. A colleague, Lesar and Stazic, said the citizens were not well informed because they needed to study 17 regulations of the Regulation, etc. That they can't manage, so of course they can't manage, so there are advisers, HZZO coordinators who are available to all insurance companies every day to clarify, interpret, or see, in a specific case, that they can help him in the event of ambiguity with them, in determining their rights. I certainly propose to improve insurance information, we have heard this also here, via info phone in HZZO, through the emphasis of their rights in waiting rooms of health institutions, the premises of HZZO, in means of public communication, in all other available ways, and we have heard that the brochure is printed, distributed. And I agree with my colleagues that the brochure must be made available to all patients, to all insurance companies in all health institutions, and eventually to welcome every patient on the locker next to the sick bed. We've all been discussing insurance rights. My colleague Stazić took a brief look around, and I join his discussion that it is equally important to talk about the insurance obligation that they themselves must take care of their health in order to take care of themselves as little as possible, care for themselves, family and society as a whole. In the end, I would conclude that I keep this bill inadmissible for all the reasons we have heard, which I have also made and that of course I will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32929	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up, MP Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32930	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here it has already been 2.5 hours, approximately since the beginning of this debate and we are discussing at least how I understood this amendment and the additions of this Fundamental Problem Act as the Proposer stated, the issue of a solution to the fundamental security rights. The promoter therefore believes that our insurance companies are not informed, or under-informed about their health insurance rights, and therefore proposes to adopt amendments and additions to the Law to be issued and a direct solution to these same rights. But although the topic is this debate, in fact, these amendments and additions to the Bill's proposal in terms of issuing a solution, we heard here in today's debate and on health reform and on social security reform, and on how the situation is in the Belarusian hospital, and on the Koprivnica-Crying County, so we heard about the rows in front of the counters, so we heard what it says on the counter. So allow me this freedom but certainly more than the debate was focused on what was not a direct topic of this exact agenda of the assembly session. Allow me and that freedom that I personally think it is a great waste of time to discuss something that is not the subject of debate, but when we talk about a solution I want to be, about amending and supplementing the bill I want to be very brief. I do not think our patients are poorly informed, however, I think they can be very well informed, so I will not say what is said here on the occasion of a debate and at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community, i.e. who has discussed that it comes from the assumption, i.e. the illusion that the insurance companies are not familiar with their rights. I, however, think that insurance companies are available, available all information about their rights through the national newspaper, through the website, through contact with the doctor, also what was claimed at the beginning of this debate that there was no brochure, we saw during this debate that the brochure exists, that it was issued on 8 November, that it was printed in 200 thousand copies and gave patients in health administrations, HZZ and other suitable places available. In addition, in the event of any dispute, the need for a slow patient from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute issues and an individual solution. And I think that as part of this, our patients in the Republic of Croatia have every prerequisite to be well informed and informed of all the rights under the Health Insurance Act. And in that sense, of course, I support the government's opinion and position, i.e. I think it is without purpose to discuss the amendment and complementarity, i.e. to support the proposal as set out in this text, and against these amendments and the addition of the bill itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32931	Thank you. State Secretary Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32932	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I would like to start this final part with the counter of our very respected representative, Mrs. Lalic, precisely that bureaucratic counter is the legacy of that communist order, any part of this Europe, whether it be that Russian... And one velvetist who's been in this room and that mentality is, that official is not in the service of the citizens, we all are judging, I'm just wondering if the honourable representative has run anything to keep such people from being on the counter but maybe somewhere in the archives because they really are burdened by communicating politely with the parties, with the people they need to help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, there has been a lot of debate over the very reform of the health system I would, and certainly that there have been a lot of grudges but a lot of uninformed things if our representatives of the Croatian Parliament are not sufficiently informed then it is even harder to expect that our citizens too do not have enough information. Like what? The Croatian Health Insurance Office has two phones at the service of our citizens from 8 hours to 16 a day on a working week, of course number 088 – 79 – 79 is for all areas of interest in the area of their rights and insurance, and almost daily there are 20, 30 people reporting. And you also know that there is a section of supplementary insurance that has the following number 0800 – 79 – 89 and almost daily 50 citizens report to that number, therefore, and this number will contribute to the information of our citizens that there is this number where they can report to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Furthermore, also paying by diagnosis, this process continues, it is polite, it does not walk so beautifully in neighbouring Slovenia, nothing worse is done in Croatia as well. In the past year, it is indeed a stable health system in terms of excessive consumption because you allow many representatives and excellent economists and know that without planning consumption can be spent as much as there is, and every country really plans, of course, that health is a great consumer, you put the ratio of health budget to the total state budget, so you see that it is not so small and that it is not just health care, it is so in one society, that there are other segments of science, education and that I do not list all possible public services and they all need money and resources and they are all obliged to stick to financial discipline. And then we all want Europe and we're at the door and there's the main condition exactly rational behavior, household behavior and practically as much as possible. And our demand was indeed this imperative to put health care into rational consumption. And that, I'm proud to say, is really that segment of drug consumption, that a lot has been achieved, that in the world of drug consumption is more than 8%, you know, and everybody gives themselves, the United States before each election is the problem, just these rights and medicines, and that's what talks about the most. Furthermore, we saw that, there was one large poll for coalition authorities where 600,000 ballots were printed practically and it was directed to all hospitals both to clinical and special hospitals and that surveyed patients who were anonymously giving their survey, an assessment of the state of health and responsible 105 thousand 352 patients sent a reply. Of which 47% were in general hospitals, 35% from clinical hospitals. And do you know what the average score was? 3.84. If we're listening to today's debates as if everything was catastrophic, so our patients didn't evaluate health so badly, the doctors themselves said what kind of communication was, that they were nice 50%, extremely politely said 50%, politely 30%, correct 15%, uninterested in that response was 1%, that there were incorrect things around 1%. The trials clearly that our citizens have seen where the shortages are, it's because of the accommodation 30%, the diet or the food is not good, or the cold comes to the 10% section, these are the objective things. So no one's fair if there are any anomalies in behavioral behavior, and this government is trying to make things better, to reduce waiting lists. So to that end, it is a day of demand that during this half of this year, hospitals are required to adapt because special services are given in shifts, meaning that pre-adapted working hours. So citizens can get favors in the afternoon. And also to supplement the personnel where the necessity is needed to use enough one complex apparatus and so on. The waiting lists are clearly somewhere in over 60 days, but that's what it's really about to reduce them. I wouldn't justify it if there were in the West many of you were in the West and in the most ideal systems of the United Kingdom and so on and ask for some chronic things as to how long you wait, for getting an artificial hip or some similar things and heart surgery and so on. It's not possible to achieve that exact moment anywhere. It's clear but there's a different insurance system, from a basic where they're all secured unlike those extras where they have the right to choose, get early services and better accommodation and so on. So we really can't just give negative estimates that there really are good examples in health care with this money. And then when things are compared you must be aware that medical technology and expensive technology and that it is all applied science the most expensive technology also to Croatia but then when you compare which one is not this, which is the essential part of the money being spent. When comparing neighbouring Slovenia, if Slovenians have $800 per capita per year and Croats have only 400 half of it. We also spend 100 on medicines, but I recently returned one meeting in Sarajevo, and then we heard about cantons, and I find it hard to say that they have a very small population by population or $5 per year for the needs of medicines. So everywhere you really need to see the situation and how much it's an absolute ratio of money. And the drugs can really be a little more and a little less expensive in which country, but they're expensive everywhere, and we really have to act rationally. But not at the expense of a patient. A lot of things will be needed in reforming our mentality, and our patient's relationship to health. Respecting the drug that and the cure actually money. Someone's talking about 40% to throw it away I don't really believe it's that much because there's really not enough to spoil it. But indeed, the patient will have to respect the drug as well as not to seek overmedication that can be harmful at the end of the line. The reform will certainly be about her a lot of talks and other session parliament to meet 8 days and nights would not be enough for all these topics to really be without any party charges, but purely the elemental civil here debate. I'm sure there'll be a lot of good ideas. And indeed it will take a great and fair consensus among all parties to find our best model best for our citizens in order to protect our fundamental right of the Constitution that we are a social state, not to hurt the poorer layers. But also to find a way to find the most appropriate way to finance health and social security. And that's where we're going to have to bend all our minds. This very law, proposed today, would indeed not make anything qualitative. Indeed the new quality is this book I showed you today, which contributes to the information of our citizens, as I said at the beginning of the session this morning. And here's the extra I gave you these two phone numbers that also confirm that there's a possibility of informing our citizens about their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32933	I thank the Secretary of State. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my final address to you on this subject. So I repeat what the Croatian People's Party Club wanted with this bill. It's a very simple thing. That every insurance undertaking at the time of obtaining the right of insurance from compulsory health insurance when it receives a health card will also receive a solution to this Act of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Apparently, some of our bill's proposals haven't been properly read or do not know that the regulation we're looking for along with the ID is called, the Rules of Rights of Conditions, and the way the basic health insurance rights are exercised. So we quoted the name of an act that regulates basic health insurance rights in 90% of the cases, and we said it was the right of the insurance company to know and have it. It's about interpreting the law, and those answers that say nothing of quality would be achieved. Second, in today's debate, we stressed that it is terribly important for the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance to open up to its insurance companies not only because it is in the function of giving advice, information and protection of rights but I assure you that it will be of great benefit to eliminate errors, abuses, violations of insurance rights, and the savings of health money that can be obtained. And I see no reason why there is so much fear of it, and why it is afraid to accept such a proposal which is similarly addressed by the Member States of the European Union. I'm the number 0800 I couldn't write down if you were looking for it and I didn't find it in this guidebook, so it might be good. Because when consumers in Croatia buy yogurt on the lid they find the number 0800 company that produced yogurt, so if it's not good, you can complain about it. So, that's exactly the kind of establishment with public powers that citizens expect. I must remind you now that all those who have rejected this initiative are against the consumer protection programme brought by this House. I remind you that on page 16, Health care, in this programme that the Government has delivered to the Parliament is just scheduled that the issue of information and education of the rights of insurance workers or patients, who exercise law and in the health system, is an extremely important thing that should be done in the next year and next. The issue of health services is also treated as significantly and as important as other services on the market. So this program we discussed last week is also talking about this problem and the necessity of opening up service providers and insurance on this subject to insurance. What are the arguments against this proposal? First of all, it's said to discuss this waste of time, which is offensive to me and I believe for most of those who have listened to this debate. Because insurance people know their rights. Security guards know their rights. I guess with this knowledge we Croats are born so as soon as we are born and we get a book, we know our health insurance rights immediately. They don't know their rights insurance companies, and it's an obligation for the state to allow them to learn and learn. Second, if they know their rights, then why is this given? They don't know, 'cause that's not what it's been until now. Secondly, insurance and patients are said to have to trust their doctors. This is not a medical professional question whether someone has the right to a drug or not, whether they have the right to a specialist search or not, this is a matter of health insurance rights, and no insurance company has to trust a doctor with a response but has the right to verify with its insurance provider. It's a fundamental right, and we need to start from that. And the third reason was that accepting our proposal would be too expensive, so it would cost a lot. But how come it's not too expensive a billion kuna drugs that end up in the trash? Since it's not expensive for the patient to wait for a specialist examination in the meantime to have surgery because the diagnostics aren't done in time, so he has to be hospitalized so he can do time at the hospital for two or three months instead of being examined in time. It's not too expensive. But to allow patients to intervene on their protection of rights and to receive on time what they are entitled under this same rule, it's too expensive for the state, I can't understand it. From the data on the number and complaint that my colleague Bacic made if I wrote correctly, 600 secondary procedures were in place. I am now asking the question, how many cases of appeal proceedings in the directorate of the Croatian Institute would be at the moment when all insurance companies who have been on the waiting list for any service in Croatian hospitals for more than 60 days. So how many citizens tomorrow when they write all those complaints and demand the exercise of the right under this rule that 61 days after waiting for the Croatian Institute must find an institution where they will receive the service. How many cases like this would only be because of that one single right. Not 600, probably 6 grand a month. So that's the problem I've been telling you about, and that's the problem we've been pointing at all the time. It is not a matter of how much the security status gives, whether it is large or small, expensive or cheap, but rather whether what is written here can be achieved by insurance companies and Croatian citizens in Croatia. Do they also know whether this right under this Regulation can be realized or there are problems. It was the theme of our proposal, not the reform of the health system. No savings. Not questioning the Koprivnica hospitals or the Koprivnica hospital but whether what the Croatian Institute has prescribed as an insurance policy we know and can be achieved. Our proposal was to oblige insurance companies to make it available to everyone and to enable effective protection of the rights which alone, without the knowledge and consent of the insurance company and this Parliament, because we unfortunately gave them such authorisation, changed their status during the insurance process. And in the end, I was resented for inviting citizens to ask for this guide in the infirmary. So I'm warning the citizens again, until a few days ago, they're entitled to this booklet in every infirmary. If you don't find her, call me, I'll get her for you. So what now? So why don't you do it? What, after 200 grand, are we going to hand over insurance rights? So if you need a million pieces, print it out and give it to the citizens. If you need a million pieces because I don't want to believe you'll say that after 200 grand, we've solved our problem. You have expressed great doubt in our claim that the insurance companies did not know their rights. I said there were more than 40,000 citizens surveyed, 50 questions. I assure you that the answers to these 10 questions from our polling list that we have had, at this point in time and in this Assembly and in the services of the Bureau and the Ministry may not even half know the correct answers because so far it has not been the subject of the conversation and because so far there has been an exclusive right to the information contained in this Regulation. Our attempt is to take away this exclusive right to red tape from the health insurance company and move it into the hands of the citizens of the insurance company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32935	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32936	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 170. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act proposed by the CNS Representatives' Club, the PGS, for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion, is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. I find that the proposed conclusion was made with 71 votes for, 4 abstentions and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32937	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives LIBRE, first reading P.Z. No. 171 You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me present to you the proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. So what's the point of this law? The existing law provides for the possibility of paying value added tax to be released for the import of goods or for the delivery of goods and services abroad, humanitarian organisations, health, education, cultural, scientific, religious, social, sports amateur clubs and bodies of state, local and regional self-government. It is our opinion that, therefore, this procedure should include other non-profit organisations, associations and institutions promoting the values set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So far, this topic has been treated differently, i.e. Those associations were not legally exempt from paying value added tax, but they were able to use that possibility by a regulation issued by the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of the principles of development of the Republic of Croatia which clearly set out the provisions on the importance and preference of the development of civil society, the Government, i.e. The Ministry of Finance has therefore been convened in the past, and that was on June 8, 2001, this regulation was signed by former Finance Minister Mr. Churchvenac, so it involved exactly this kind of humanitarian organisation, a non-profit organisation. equated them with humanitarian organisations within the meaning of this law and freed them from it, thus giving them the opportunity to free them from paying income taxes. Well, the new government. The Ministry of Finance in the new assembly adopted a regulation signed by Finance Minister Ivan Shuker on 10 April 2004, which erases the possibility that non-profit organisations, institutions and associations should be exempt from paying VAT taxes as was the case with what is stated today in the law itself. It is our view that every country's tax policy must be based on the principles of equality and justice. It remains, however, unclear on which criteria it is decided that some organisations, associations and institutions, and these are the ones in the fields of human rights, women's rights, democratisation and so on, are worth less than others,... humanitarian organisations, health, education, cultural, religious, sports amateur clubs, etc., and that their work should not be stimulated, therefore, as it has been in this Regulation since 2004. In the three years hence, from 2001 to 2004, as if it were possible to free all non-profit organisations were the exemption of VAT payments, a smaller number of them actively used the given privilege, and all the funds saved by non-payment of VAT were already completed in the Republic of Croatia because they allowed organisations to do more activities and pay more services, or to employ a larger number of persons. These organisations have attracted several million euros in Croatia, which eventually ended up in the profit sector or the state budget through taxes and contributions, through their work and efforts over the past three years in Croatia. These organisations deal in the same way as humanitarian associations and institutions covered by legal relief, socially useful work, represent values, ideas and interests of marginal and deprivileged social groups, gather citizens around the programme, and the goals of raising the quality of life. They contribute briefly to pluralising public and political space and democratisation of society. In addition, members of those organisations are independently concerned about the provision of own-work resources, which most often means hard breaking and maintenance of channels towards foreign donors. The state should appreciate this as reducing the pressure on its own budget as well as on such a crowded Employment Service. However, this year's business of deleted non-profit organisations, associations and institutions, as well as foreign donors, as existing budgets are based on the old rule. The long-term decision is due to the refusal of foreign donors who will not want to donate funds or goods to which the state will take 22%. Just a little bit to clarify that this Law was addressed to the parliamentary procedure on 24 September 2004, so six months ago, it was planned until it was adopted as of 1.1 this year, unfortunately only now have we been given the opportunity to present this Law at a plenary session and without the government's opinion, is it really the same thing as the Government's position on this issue. To compare with neighbouring neighbours, Central and Southeast European countries, of the 16 countries there is some form of VAT exemption for non-profit legal persons or their activities, especially if they come from foreign sources. Those who have freedom are Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia. Those who do not have are now with Croatia in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, Kosovo and Latvia. In addition, all countries have an additional number of forms of tax deductions, a relief for donations to associations. In addition to all the abovementioned advice on civil society development, drawn up by representatives of non-profit organisations and representatives of the ministry and state bodies at a meeting held on 9 June 2004, he appealed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide at one of the next meetings of the Government to address the problem of abolishing the provisions of the VAT Regulation which would regulate the release of VAT payments to goods and services purchased by funds from abroad. Among other things, this government committed itself to promoting the development of civil society in the national programme for joining the European Union for 2004. Therefore, that proposal of the Law is fully traced by the government's development policy, at least it should be. With the current solution in the Law on Value Added Tax, NGOs, and non-profit organisations are highly discriminated against. For example, humanitarian and sports organisations have been exempt from paying VAT on donations from abroad as well as donations arising from signed international contracts and the CARDS or US Aid Agreements, but this is not true. The law cannot determine and discriminate against what good useful services or types of donations are, therefore, a release should be prescribed for all non-profit organisations, in particular those promoting the values set out in Article 3. The Constitution of Croatia because this would solve the problem in a transparent and legal way, and by prescribing additional tax control mechanisms and better organisation of certification and user monitoring systems, the whole procedure could become simpler and more transparent. It would also avoid discrimination against non-profit organisations and foreign donors. Maybe I should just read the article 3 more. The Constitution which defines which non-profit organisations would be exempt from VAT payments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, the Constitution speaks of freedom of equality of national equality and gender equality, peacemaking, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, preservation of nature and human environment, rule of law and democratic multilateral system are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the constitution. So, what we're asking is that associations that promote the values of this Article 3. The Constitution, the freedom of payment of value added tax as well as those of other organisations which are allowed under the current Law. If this is not accepted, we are reading a further development of mistrust in the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, which is what some other events and relations with non-profit organisations and associations that we have witnessed in the distribution of budget funds to associations, because it has happened that some associations that have received support from the budget this year have lost their support for years, for the first time, and also some associations have knocked on their doors and financial police who have charged them with large fines because of some minor violations, which makes their work very difficult. Therefore, I hope that you will accept these arguments, so that, as a first step, we can all equalize ourselves before the Law and that we can all promote the values set out in Article 3 together. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32939	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want? Okay. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate clubs for 15 minutes. Club HNS PGS esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In May last year, when the existing Law was amended and the Law on VAT exemption left out non-profit organisations, associations and institutions I gave the amendment and asked that at least the foundations remain in this context of VAT release and normally not accepted, and I am afraid that this proposal by colleagues Pavlica will not be accepted this time either. The colleague Pavlic has presented a number of arguments and reasons, a series of organizations that, by adopting this bill, would come into a far more favourable position than they are at the moment but for easier understanding, I would only try to show you on one specific example what this proposal means, or what the existing solution to the VAT law means. At the request of the Association of the Blind, therefore, the person who brings together persons who are undersighted or completely blind, we went into action in order to buy them at their disposal and equip a complete computer program with all the related parts that are set up for the blind. In order for the blind to use the computer other than the standard of equipment we use, we certainly need a voice unit and a scanner that converts the text into a program and printer on Braille's letter. Without that printer, they can't use the computer. That printer, so a regular printer by the name of it costs 40,000 kuna. It is not available on the Croatian stock market and usually when ordered imports are ordered per individual order. Full computer equipment for a blind person for a blind student attending a gymnasium costs 60 to 65 thousand kuna. These students have no right to help neither from the social sphere for such types of needs nor from health insurance nor from any other system if they attend regular schools. We ordered, delivered and paid the state 22% for the purchase value. Afterwards we came to obtain such similar equipment for all the blind students who go to regular school and at the end of last year, Minister Primorac also engaged in a special case and provided money for the purchase of equipment so that Braill's printer and computer for a certain student of the students of the gymnasium. The difference is therefore that when the state ordered and bought, it did not pay VAT, but when it did so, a foundation specialising in helping in such domains as it did in this case had to pay value added tax. We helped and patched up system failures because the system didn't provide so many blind students, and we helped and saved the state money so the kids could attend high school. In return, we had to pay the state VAT. So if that's not an example, if that's not the case where the state should release non-profit and humanitarian organisations and trusts from paying value added tax, then I don't know what other example they might find. In response to my amendment, there was a minister of finance here in the Parliament and he told me that one of the reasons why these organizations were removed from VAT tax exemption was to pay value added taxes because they noted that some were engaged in oil smuggling. You can check that in a phonogram. So maybe because of some oil smuggler, I don't know what charity was smuggling oil. Therefore, since May of last year, not only do we have to pay VAT when we buy to a Croatian citizen abroad a device that is not available in Croatia, which does not give him and provides neither social care nor health insurance nor a school constitution, but VAT must be paid. And on the occasion where the Međimuracs of Switzerland donated 15 thousand francs to that same foundation. So, when our citizens and citizens who work abroad have raised money at their party, given the foundation as help, we should also pay the value added tax. That's the second reason my support for my colleague Pavlica's proposal to appeal to you. Support this proposal this time because organizations dealing with the greatest part of their activities, saves their money, corrects the injustices that occur and helps people who fall through all the holes in the system however we turn. If last year was the reason for the lack of transparency, fear of abuse I believe that from May of last year until today, the Ministry of Finance has established a system of effective control and control that any attempted abuse will be prevented and, by accepting this proposal, it would come to the fact that the civil sector is free from paying value added tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32941	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32942	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! A few premises and she concluses as well as how out of it. In particular, Article 12, 13 of the Law still applies to VAT. Of course, in this broad spectrum, and as it usually happens in Croatia, everything has happened. Practically, taxes were avoided on everything possible and there was an ever better way of saying what was going on in these so-called so-called so-called taxes. The civil sector in Croatia gave the state a bribe under humanitarian activity. After noting that such a situation is unsustainable, the amendment and adoption of the rules finally and non-profit organisations and institutions and others are no longer equated with humanitarian and other organisations. Another question arises with this finding. And why is that? I personally can state from experience the same if the facts but neither the law nor nor the rules can work for exceptions unless they are a mass phenomenon or massier, they can also give two examples. One big huge donation that I had or better to say connected from Germany to my region, my county was worth millions. One of those who followed this humanitarian aid and related to the municipal system mainly asked for confirmation that he had brought this humanitarian aid. Of course, I couldn't figure out at first what that confirmation is now. After certain checks, of course, I didn't give him confirmation, but the man took advantage of my absence and managed to get a certificate. Why? I honestly say then I didn't even know or follow that for the value of humanitarian aid he could introduce later the values of equipment, machines and other things and not pay for that customs or VAT and believe or not that he formed a construction company and introduced legally fine machines completely that he had in it. On the side now whether we were all in the system and it doesn't matter when it happened, but that as a system it worked in that time but the fact that it was happening. The second fact that the singers were also very happy to hold humanitarian concerts, but each time after that, give us confirmation that we held a humanitarian concert. Okay, here's the receipt. Why? The humanitarian concert, I say again about the premium of the income of 100 thousand kuna, the cost of 99, 1000 kuna aid to be used for humanitarian purposes. These are two extreme examples but I also highlight them because it obviously went with examples here that can be both positive and negative. I point out that this is where the order should be introduced. This order must be controlled and whether it is now or later that eventually small corrections are carried out in that we can put into question and then try to answer that but it is precisely determined exactly how much it reflects on the state budget and how much we may lose through that assessment in such purposes of humanitarianism that is needed in our society. Through these two assessments, it would then be closer to assessing which groups of such humanitarian aids, or non-profit organisations, and others could be significant for the development of Croatian society. I couldn't agree that the very qualification of the development of democracy and civil society as soon as we've put it under control is not for that. It's not gonna stop. It will stop to everyone in Croatia, so they don't want any control, which, of course, nobody should be afraid of if there is normal legal action in that space. For these reasons, in fact, and by adopting the Regulation on May 8th last year, with the exception that was then determined, it caused a violent reaction, and then we heard from some associations and so forth and probably even today from these same points of view. As there is still the possibility of action in the Croatian state through instruments of different aid and humanitarian activities, so still legal and natural persons can, without any problems for 2% of income, be exempt from income tax and income tax if there, this part of the change for humanitarian purposes. Thus, no one defends anyone by calling on that part to be used to the end and is not taxed for that part. The same can be done through certain humanitarian institutions as can be done through various, different forms of purpose and humanitarian aid. The fact that such an initiative or a proposal could possibly be subdued, we tried to respond under the guidelines, the 6th guidelines of the European Union that exist in the 3 groups of exceptions, we are trying to redefine what could be within, but this initiative could not be included in those three groups, and we are preparing legislation that would be harmonised there. I therefore believe that in this part of this part of this, non-profit and other organisations that are proposed to change could not fit into one of these three exceptions, which gives 6 guidelines. There is all the reason that, after I say so, there is still the possibility of actually acting in such a way of humanitarian aid in Croatian civil society, they would not still be able to agree with such an amendment to reopen everyone so that they can act in the way that it was the VAT Act of those articles and defined. And that's why the HDZ Club can't support this change. Of course she won't vote for it. We remain in this, and in the future, of course, the possibility of change, but again explicitly financially established and strictly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32943	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pecek, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32944	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say immediately that the HSS will support a proposal to amend this law. The reasons are very simple. First of all, we strongly advocate to make it impossible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the ministries to change the essence of the law by adopting sublegal acts, which is what they are actually put above the law. In this case, of course, it's a rule that will be spoken of a little later. It is absolutely unnecessary to place them in such a position through sublegal acts of ministers and finally the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have recently received a large number of such proposals where the law contains only general provisions and a more precise definition has been left to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that through regulations or ministries through regulations further resolve this. The freshest example is the proposal to amend the FINA law, which reportedly launchs the "One Stop Shop" project after a year. The amendments to the law allow the FINA to carry out this activity, and everything else has been left to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a regulation within 30 days. Of course, an emergency procedure is required until, at the same time as we adopt the amendments to this law, they cannot enter into force because there is no regulation. Is this the kind of relationship between the executive and the legislative authority? In what position the users of the "One Stop Shop" service will find nothing in the law but will also have to read the government's regulation after the law. Is it in the function of operationality and reduction of administrative barriers? Of course not. We have a similar example in the VAT Act. By 2004, by May, the payment of VAT in imports of goods or donations was freed from non-profit organisations, associations and institutions. The delete decision was made by the autonomous minister himself. There has been no debate and she has found that numerous users, but also foreign donors. Isn't that too much and unnecessary discretion? How do you explain to foreign donors that already immediately at the entrance their donation when entering Croatia is worth almost a quarter less, precisely 22%? Does anyone care if the recipient has the possibility to pay VAT immediately when importing to Croatia? What if he doesn't? The only solution is not to receive a better word of return donation. Isn't that actually an administrative barrier to receiving assistance to those who are just fighting for the development of democracy and human rights, better said for civil society. Whether we are satisfied with the situation in this area or we would do well to continue to use foreign aid both through their experiences and also material aid. Regardless of the improvements that took place 10 to 15 years ago in the area of democracy and human rights, we will probably all agree that it is not sufficiently developed yet. And if this Law does not change, the situation will also not change so that we will continue to have a large number of citizens, as well as institutions that will seek assistance abroad because of the underdeveloped and poor domestic sector. If this Amendment to the Law is adopted, we will allow the release of VAT payments on imports or delivery of goods of non-profit organisations, associations and institutions promoting values as explained in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And more importantly, we'll make it impossible for the minister and anyone to work for us. And this is how the public thinks we haven't been working lately, God knows what's smart. In this way, we will also prevent them from taking over our jurisdiction. This is what we decide in the Parliament, and it is unnecessary for them to discuss and decide both the Government and the Ministry. Let's not let anyone have the possibility of writing sublegal acts to make stronger provisions than those in law. This proposal shall be supported by the HSS, which shall specify more precisely that the VAT has been released from organisations, associations and institutions promoting the values set out in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is those who perform humanitarian or sports character and those who work in the area of freedom, the development of democracy, the rule of law and so on. There's no reason for them to be in an unequal position and there's no reason why we shouldn't define this by law instead of a sublegal act. That is why the HSS will support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32945	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32946	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the SDP, we strongly support this proposal by our colleagues to donate to NGOs from abroad the release of the obligation to pay VAT, and we also accept all the arguments that Pavlic has made here, which is entirely ours, both correct and exhaustive. I think that we here in particular, not us here in the Croatian Parliament, need to convince each other that each country and so does the Republic of Croatia has an obligation, but also the need to support the NGO sector, support those associations and especially those associations dealing with the promotion of human rights, which are engaged in the development of civil and civil responsibility because this is what is missing in Croatia today, but also as those associations which are in some way discriminated or marginalised groups of society. This is at least at the declarative level and today the commitment of the Republic of Croatia and all the options that are present in the Republic of Croatia and in this Parliament. What should also be said is that NGOs in the Republic of Croatia are today financed from domestic sources that are from foreign sources and are only rare and only a few of them who are able to earn something based on their own activities. It has already been said here, but I think it is not bad to repeat that the motivation and need to actually pass this law came from us in the SDP of the absolutely wrong decision of Minister Schuker of May 2004, which the NGOs were no longer freed from payment of VAT on those foreign donations to that decision of May last year, Minister Shuker was annulled the decision of April 2001 when NGOs were released from payment of VAT on foreign donations which they were legally equated with humanitarian associations. Of course, NGOs objected to such a decision by Minister Shuker quite justifiably rebelled, the decision was a major blow to NGOs because they claimed very correctly that the decision actually imposes double taxation on them. These donations were taxed for the first time in the country of origin, the second time in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, given the situation I and the new experience that we have with, for example, competitions from the foundation for the development of civil society, I wonder when any of our associations would apply for any coffee from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia type give us now several thousand kunas so that they could pay VAT for the funds they give us from abroad, of course that such our associations would be glat rejected. The decision, apart from being entirely illogical and bad for development and the NGO sector, but also in general the Republic of Croatia, has put many projects of NGOs at risk. The budgets of NGOs are mainly planned and are without any alternative sources of funding. In the SDP, it seems to us that when we talked last year and discussed this decision by Minister Shuker, it seemed to us that the minister thought that NGOs should actually be the same and that they should fill the state budget. It is totally unacceptable for us in the SDP that Minister Schuker was completely independent without any consultations with NGOs, that is, that decision and that way was condemned and representative of the European Commission delegation in Croatia and we think that we now have a good opportunity to correct it all together. That it was clearly thought seriously surprised us and that the Ministry of Finance had sent an inspection into the NGO of GONG after they protested precisely because of such a decision and the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance punished GONG with 31 thousand kuna with some entirely in our SDP senseless explanation. So we think the decision of Minister Shuker was bad. We here in the Croatian Parliament today have the opportunity to correct this mistake by making it more possible on the NGO scene, i.e. on the scene of relations between NGOs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last year, to mark at least two major excesses. The first concerned the distribution of money for institutional education and education that was at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I will not convince the situation now, but the Minister has also annulled where some manipulations have taken place again, and the second recent decision of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development has been made when most in the Republic of Croatia have not received the funds for the programmes they have applied for, which have been fully justified. In all of this, it should be added that in the last two years we have, allow me that term, a rather sloppy execution of commitments made by the state budget towards NGOs, but we discussed this when we had the budget. So I don't owe it, because there's already a lot about this really very simple theme here. Support of the SDP to this law. We agree with colleagues from the HSS that it is better that this matter be regulated by law, not by regulation, so that we do not again get some minister who thinks he is above parliament and that he can make such decisions alone without consulting anyone and we think that in the Republic of Croatia especially in this area and protect human rights and the development of the non-governmental sector has been quite hypocritical, that there are a lot of declarative views and we think that we in the SDP that the Croatian Parliament must be that and we all here must be that we are not just one of those who declare themselves as fighters for strengthening civil society. We are the ones who can really do it, and we can do it with this law, because if we do not accept this law, and I think we should first address those colleagues who have pleaded not to accept this law, then unfortunately they send another denial to Croatia completely unnecessary about irony, about hypocrisy, about duality, which is something that is not good and is not a positive message. Therefore, in the end, the SDP supports this initiative, but also like all other initiatives that have real but real effects, which ultimately do not cost much to increase the level and civilization of Croatian society, but to strengthen civil and civil initiatives because this is what we need in Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32947	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first representative is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If there is absolutely no other argument that this legislative proposal should be accepted, then the one which the applicant stated about the list of countries where such a exemption exists for non-profit associations should be respected. It is Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. And the list of countries where such liberation does not exist are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro, Kosovo and Latvia, of course, Croatia. So, by rejecting this legislative proposal, we want to stay in society with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Latvia, and we will not get into the order of developed democratic countries, which, therefore, we should at least by this example, if by nothing else, need to be a role model. That's the right message to be sent by rejecting this bill. What is the status of civil society in Croatia? So he's been going through some phases, let's just say three stages simplistic. At the time of the first HDZ administration, the civil sector was seen mainly as an enemy of the state. That's how it was talked about, that's how it was experienced, that's how it was evaluated. In the second phase after 2000, the civil sector was seen as a desirable state correction. The civil sector was not mild in many matters to state institutions or to official policy, or ruling policy. He often knew how to be sharp. But the official policy wasn't hard on him. She saw the criticism of the Civil Sector as a desirable correction. In the third phase where we are now, we could not quite say that the Civilian sector is once again seen as an enemy of the state, but the relationship to it is approximately like a relationship to an unwanted child. Come on, now that it's there, but to make his life easier and better, we won't. Evidence 1. Minister Shuker's decision to amend the rules and to exclude non-profit associations from this VAT relief. Evidence 2. Denied funds from the Civil Society Development Foundation, who? Association of Babe and Gong. He'd dare say almost two in public to the most present association, not to them. Describing the Croatian Democratic Community's position on this legislative proposal, HDZ representatives discussed humanitarian organisations and abuse of VAT non-payment in humanitarian concerts and humanitarian donations. And this bill is not about that at all. The humanitarian organisations are free of VAT payments. Therefore, the HDZ representative rejects this legislative proposal on behalf of the HDZ, this solution, and speaks of something completely different which is not at all the subject of this Law and which is not at all a problem. What again testifies to HDZ's seriousness when it comes to this subject and thinking, the depth of the reason why this proposal refuses. It's the fifth thing we're talking about. What will be the effect if this Law is not passed if he refuses? And it will be rejected exclusively by the will of the parliamentary majority. It's going to shrink or disappear from foreign donations, that's quite clear. Because why would someone give something to someone else and then pay 22 percent for it? Why? So they're going to say, "I won't give, you're going to punish me because I'm giving you something for free. Thank you very much, so I don't have to give it to you, but to punish me with your taxes, so I won't." So I'm asking every one of you who's gonna vote for this to go away, so would you give someone something and then pay 22 percent for it? And that you're the one you're giving it to? As donations from abroad are reduced, civil sector activity will also be reduced, it is quite clear. And maybe that's exactly what she's trying to do, to cut her down and make her die. But as donations are cut, of course, you can refuse to do this and leave the obligation to charge VAT, but which VAT will you charge if there is no donation? Which one? What good will it do for a budget when it all comes together? What will you charge VAT when donations stop arriving? But when they stop arriving, the civil sector's activity will be reduced, perhaps gone. That's what you want. I think that's what you want. Because look, GONG discovered an election fraud in Bosnia and Herzegovina. GONG found out, so why would we need a gong like that that reveals such things? What do we need it for? It's best that he's gone because then there won't be a civil sector that'll reveal such things. The rejection of this bill sends an unusually bad message. It's being sent to the world, we don't want your help, and if you happen to want to help us, then we'll punish you with taxes. A bad message is being sent inside the country, to the general public, to the general public. No, we don't want any help developing those values listed in point 3. The Constitution, and these are the most constitutional values. Most constitutional values, we don't need that. The third message being sent, we don't need any developed civil society at all, we don't need those warning that it's being stolen in the elections. It's best there aren't any messages like that. All those who vote on this, against this legislative proposal, must be aware that their vote will in fact express only and exclusively this message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32949	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Frano Piplojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32950	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Stazic, has now elaborated the problem of the civil sector in Croatia. In many ways, he's right about what he said. However, it seems that several additions should be made. When it comes to the civil sector in this first period when the Croatian state was created and when war was at stake, it was necessary to support that part of the civil sector that helped refugees, exiles, people in need. However, there is one mortgage in the part of the Civilian sector that actually prevented the creation of the Croatian state, it is known to everyone. And that mortgage wasn't taken off, they were going along with all the others who were actually helping the unhappy. The second period discussed by counterpart Stazic refers to the time after the war. The fact that a part of the Civilian sector, namely NGOs, is tied to individual political parties, so that political parties actually implement their policy through the NGO sector. And it's... You've got the NGO, you've got politics here now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm familiar with, say, that the SDP is doing a lot of work through NGOs and in such a way implementing its policy, which is ultimately the legitimate right of the party. I've been to some meetings, so I know it well. This bill of law is a good bill by my court. But precisely because of these doubts that are, which hang above the Civil Sector, I believe will not pass. I know good opportunities in NGOs because the civil sector will not be able to develop its declarations. He can develop, there's a colleague right, only with full social support and financial support. The moment that this mortgage is removed from the Civilian sector, when politics is missing its hands from the Civilian sector, then we will also have it and develop it the way it is in the developed world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32951	Replication response, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32952	First, it does not work through the Civil Sector, but cooperates with the SDP. He cooperates with him, respecting the need for his existence, the results he achieves, his values. Secondly, your relationship with Civil Society, all that you have now said, that part of that Civil Society was against the creation of the Croatian state, and what is, of course, completely incorrect, is that I was absolutely right when I said that this civil sector during the period of the first HDZ administration was considered hostile. This resulted in the inhibition of the democratic development of Croatia, where we had one lagging behind not only in my assessment, according to estimates not only of the civil sector, but of the assessments we received from the outside. Only by including, stronger by involving the civil sector in the overall social flows, certainly through the will of the political parties that have been in power for 4 years, the situation in democracy has improved. Now by re-suffering it, by repeating this view of the civil sector that they were against the creation of the Croatian state, you will attach it all. You will attach all this and again make Croatia an example of the country as it should not treat civil society.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32953	On behalf of, I'm sorry, Mr. Zeljko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, and we have heard what he proposes and to whom he refers, above all, to associations in the fields of human rights, women's rights, peace, property integrity, nature conservation and human environment, rule of law and so on. It is clear to all of us that the activities of these associations are an integral part of democratic human society, and social order and that their activities are justified and necessary. However, the practical seduction of order into the fiscal sector has been unnecessarily politicized here. This proposal hides in itself several traps that could have far-reaching consequences both for meeting the state budget that we adopted here in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, and for introducing order into fiscal policy which we have decided as parliamentary majority when we listened to the Prime Minister Ivo Sanader on government policy and what it will implement in the next 4 years. This proposal is therefore incomplete to me, and we discussed this on the Committee on Finance and Budget, there is no calculation, there is no data on what it means in the VAT system to be saved and how much it would contribute. Here it is said that the state budget would get more than lose, it needs to be proved by numbers and backed up. I therefore believe that this proposal is as far as the implementation of fiscal policy is concerned, above all, incompletely and as such, it is not possible to discuss it in this way. After all these changes, they open Pandora's box of all those who also think they have the right "to seek exemption from customs and VAT" and in order to realise their personal interests, nothing but personal interests. We have heard several examples here, no matter how it was realized or how it was done or even how we imported the baggers through this Law. I'm not sure how if we made a little fun of it, we could influence the peace of mind or the establishment of women's rights and improve the rule of law with a bagger. This Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance announced and conducted a sharp fight against all those who are trying to prevent the implementation of the fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have decided as I have said here in the Croatian Parliament. It is also important to consider the consequences of this proposal, the proponent himself in the assessment of the situation and the consequences that the law will achieve: "In the past three years, during which non-profit organisations have been freed from VAT payments, a small number of them have actively used the above-mentioned privilege." It is concluded that in the financial sense, associations would profit slightly and an enormous space for malfeasance would be opened. On the other hand, by adopting these supplements, we would send to all those institutions, associations, organisations that are not covered by this proposal that it is possible and that it is free to do the same for them, and we would again be where, at the beginning of the tendency to get the system as it was before May 2004 when the Ministry of Finance decided to amend the VAT Regulation adopted in 2001. FOR these reasons, it is clear that it is necessary to vote against this proposal that I am going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32955	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, counterpart Nenadic was saying that he would mention that there would be a huge space for malfeasance if we adopted this Law, but fellow Nenadić, this Law and existing legal provisions and the existing Regulation, which is in force part of the organisations dealing with humanitarian character, which are still being freed from VAT today. What you said would therefore mean that they do not have the possibility of malfeasance, and if organisations dealing with the development of democracy, human rights, civil society in Croatia are free of VAT there are possible major malversions. And when you mentioned the badgers that your colleague Prvenik mentioned on behalf of the HDZ Club, maybe you forgot or didn't hear, he was talking about a humanitarian organization that was involved in humanitarian aid, and eventually, thanks to the release from the VAT, he imported the badgers. So it wasn't a human rights organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32957	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague Sobol should know that apart from the theoretical... so-called... Experience methods, and experience methods are exactly the ones that teach us and based on which we have gained some experience and knowledge of how and how it works. Therefore, I do not see at all the reason that a paid customs duty on a personal car or anything else that will benefit these associations can lead to the obstruction of their work and in any way cease to work, I think it is the price that should be paid to make it and all the expensive in this society work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32959	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhil, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32960	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that I belong to those who support the amendments to this Act more than I did in the last year when the second time came to amend the VAT Act on the agenda and the amendment requested that organisations and institutions from the civil sector are precisely required, and also from all those parts which were then annulled, i.e. when a unilaterally abolished regulation was put into place to pay VAT on funds received from abroad. In this regard, I proposed that these organisations, organisations, organisations, as well as humanitarian organisations, health, education, religious and social institutions and sports clubs, and that they are indeed excluded from paying VAT, because above all it is about organisations dealing with the protection of human rights, the rights of national minorities, it is about organisations dealing with the protection of the natural environment, and also organisations that are working to promote democracy, which means that it is about all those organisations that monitor and implement the values promoted in the work of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But it is also about associations that have attracted millions of people by their work and efforts for the past few years..., hired young experts who created the foundations of just civil society, contributed to the pluralisation of public and political space, and above all to the democratisation of Croatian society. And it was these associations that also contributed to the development of civil consciousness that began the process of building domestic civil society infrastructure. On the basis of precisely their work, the foundations of the national civil sector development programme were also created and that the irony is now greater than that of the organizations that have indeed worked since the beginning to promote such rights today from the foundation are not financed, since they allegedly do not have quality programmes. I have reported more here to say that there are associations of national minorities in the same position, which are from foreign funds that they receive from their countries of origin to maintain cultural ethnic identity, but also to maintain the space in which they work, to maintain cultural homes and even cultural monuments of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately they have to give one fifth of that work to the state. And since all the instructions here are examples I'll give one of the examples. One of the native minority countries that I represent encourages and only helps minorities in undeveloped countries, Croatia certainly does not belong there. But the minority has chosen the right with its work, and even more so has been the subject of talks in the country's parliament, which has granted approval that the minority receives these funds, because it is just investing them in reconstruction in Croatia, investing them in cultural monuments. And here I must say that discrimination is being carried out within minority associations and it is with full law, because some associations of national minorities are being freed from the foundations of the international treaty and based on 140 articles of the Constitution. Other minorities, although having the same contract almost identical, mean the bilateral agreement between the two countries cannot achieve this right. This is an opportunity to really all NGOs, associations, and also foundations that work to promote exactly how democracy, how the rights of national minorities and all other rights are incorporated into the law. And then the Ministry can define the exceptions by its rules, because that is the only way there will be no discrimination and inequality before the law, the criteria will only become clear and transparent. If there are, because if there were indeed abuses as is claimed here and some such institutions have abused and abused their position, I think that if anyone really has a tax administration and a way to control it by issuing certain certificates and it is certainly possible today to monitor every taxpayer and, above all, when it comes to associations or non-profit organisations. And as each country's policy is based on the principles of equality and justice, it would be good to send a message to foreign donors and the European Union by accepting these changes that indeed the same principles apply in Croatia. We have heard examples here that there are really countries in our environment that respect and that have the Law of Liberation of such associations from VAT and I see no reason why Croatia is trying to enter the European Union and with which, ultimately, Croatia and the European Union have the release of donations from all donations, including associations, why Croatia would not now spend and finally say the same country, the country we seek. Because that's the only way to contribute to the strengthening of civil society that we know is the voice of the public and that's the only chance to hear the voice of the public. So once again, I will stress I support the amendments to this Law, because I think it will contribute, not subtract something from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32961	Thank you very much. We've got another lady's counsel and a final proposal, so we'll postpone that in three hours. I'm interrupting the session now, 15 o'clock. Have a nice and good run. Thank you very much. ...session. The first representative is Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, I'd like to warn you of some things. I will begin by reminding the representatives of what it says in the Action Strategy of the Civil Society Development Foundation from 2004 to 2007, which reads that their priority objectives are to promote active citizenship, to participate in community development, to build civil society capacity, to develop cross-sectoral cooperation, to increase the impact of civil society in public policy processes, to increase public influence and to the public the activities of civil society organisations, to develop social entrepreneurship and employment, to increase the impact of civil society in public policy-making processes. And then you remember about a week ago, ten days ago in this House, we discussed the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, and then the ruling coalition's representatives were very eager to defend what is inside, and among other things, when we talk about civil society, it says: "A well-developed and articulated civil society is a fundamental prerequisite in the process of democratisation and modernization of the Republic of Croatia. Civil society organisations play a role in controlling public administration activities of possible abuse of authorities and represent the source of an initiative that leads to new social practice in legislation." And afterwards it says that we have over 600 NGOs dealing directly or indirectly with protecting human rights and preventing different forms of discrimination at all levels. It is written in the proposal for a national programme that you have been very eager to defend, after which the proposal is as withdrawn from the procedure. What I personally consider to be government is about civil society, that is, what he thinks about organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia has shown in fact several times in this year and two months since he's been acting in power. This was the first time in May of last year when the minister of his decision, which he apparently made possible by the existing law, made it clear that all organisations primarily engaged in the protection and promotion of human rights stopped being freed from VAT on funds received through foreign donations and definitely in our opinion gave a pretty strong blow, because a large part of these projects that these organisations worked in the territory of the Republic of Croatia were financed precisely by funds from foreign donations, and of course none of these donors wanted to pay a re-tax and that 22% in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the government has shown what it thinks of one of the most important organisations involved in protecting and promoting human rights was when it was revealed which organisations are, or rather, which organisations have not received a kuna of funding from the Civil Society Development Foundation. And I'd say like this, that the third time actually the government has shown what they think about the area of human rights and because you deny me, I think I'm right, on this proposal of the law since September last year, in fact, the government hasn't found itself fit to read. So neither is it for this bill nor is it not, but I'm afraid that by not giving their testimony they have actually shown as many times as they have so far what they actually think of this area. When we talk about the civil sector, then it seems to me that we should actually start from the fact that civil society organisations are of really invaluable value and should also be affected by the development of democratic processes both in other countries and in the Republic of Croatia and cannot in any way determine our relationship with the civil sector by whether we are in power or not at some point, that is what our ears hear from that civil sector. The role of NGOs in the field of promoting and protecting human rights among other things is to be critical and to point to possible irregularities in the work of the state administration, i.e. authorities as such, and this definitely has nothing to do with who at a certain point in time in power this or that option is. The government is that in some way it has not given its opinion on this bill, I would say that I would leave actually representatives of the ruling coalition in one deleted space to try to actually find their own arguments as to why they are actually against this. I do not agree with the claims made by those who say that if VAT exemptions were reintroduced for this part of the organisation in order to lead to financial malfeasance, that is precisely in the human rights sector. All malfeasances that may have occurred or are going to occur regardless of whether a particular organisation is involved in humanitarian character, whether it is dealing with a health problem or whether it is dealing with a health problem, for example. By promoting women's human rights. Besides, for all possible malfeasances, there must be the authorities of this country who are in charge and that they discover them, and then that they are prosecuted by the perpetrators of them. I would therefore once again like to warn that one part of the organisations that have been painfully real for the last decade, 12 years have been developing in the territory of Croatia and have become a relevant factor not only in the Republic of Croatia but also outside Croatia in the field of protection of human rights, have today been put into a situation so that, because of their failure to release VAT on the part of the donations, they have lost these donations, and on the other hand, neither have they received any support from the government or from the trustee. In doing so, I would especially like to warn one area, which is trafficking in people. Croatia, therefore, falls under human rights, is a violation of human rights. Croatia has in some way committed itself to the International Community that it is able to take care of human trafficking victims especially women and children without the help of foreign donors. So what happened now? These organisations were first left without state support through the foundation, and the second is now that these organisations have to wait this year until 6th and 7th months to see if the competition will at all be announced by the competent ministry and what conditions will be the. After that, they will wait until 9 months to see the results of the competition, and then they will come to the end of the year to eventually receive funds if they have passed the competition. I ask you what such organizations will do and how will they do, or how will they survive throughout this year? So in the end, I support the amendment and addition of the VAT Act. I believe that this issue, which should be transferred from that sphere of regulations that have the right to bring in ministers, should be transferred to the sphere, so to this law, and I really appeal to all MPs and MPs that even though the Government's opinions do not have to raise their hands for this. Because this government too can be praised when some projects work in cooperation with NGOs. In particular, this section covers the Vice-President of the Government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, so I remind you that she has pointed out repeatedly in public a strategy to combat domestic violence that would not have been written and would not have been adopted by the Government if she had not had the support and assistance of the very organisations dealing with this problem. These are women's groups that are among other things like the Autonomous Women's House, such as the Centre for Women's Victims of War, such as B.A.B.E. other without the Kuna support from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32964	Thank you very much. There's one correction, Mr. Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would only correct the quote, namely, it's not true that the government has denied the funding of any non-governmental association. And you know it very well. The government has allocated certain funds to the budget, but the government has not participated in the distribution that the association will receive as much as it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32966	Thank you very much. In the name of the promoter, Mr. Pavlic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32967	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. ...let me briefly refer to this present proposal of our Law on Value Added Tax. First of all, I should like to thank all of you who have been involved in the debate, and I would like to thank those who have strengthened this initiative with their arguments, and we are even more encouraged in this together, and we hope that others will change their minds and join us because we think that this is a useful initiative. So let me remind you of what's most important. Therefore, existing provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, value added tax payments were exempt both from importing goods and from delivery of goods and services abroad. Humanitarian organisations, health organisations, educational, cultural, scientific, religious, social, sports, sports amateur clubs, and bodies of state, local and regional self-government. Therefore, they are all exempt from paying value added tax by the existing law. The past government, by its regulation, has been the ministry since 2001, which lasted until 2004, so whoever abolished this government has made it possible for non-profit sector associations, such as non-profit organisations, institutions and associations, to get similar treatment, I will not say the same but similar treatment, so they are in a special procedure. Therefore, not under this Act but by a special regulation, the rigorous regulation allowed them to be exempt from paying VAT here, for the first time, there are no claims that there were malfeasances in that system because it could be concluded from the discussion of certain clubs or parliamentary representatives that almost the whole system was a system in which smuggling was ruled, in which various abuses were ruled. This was not true because it was very much under the control of the tax administration, but it was an abuse but we also heard it here today, so in these systems that were freed from VAT, Mr. Luggage is talking about some humanitarian organisations where there was abuse, so this used an argument against the fact that these organisations from another one system could be exempt from paying VAT. This argument is not new, I would just like to remind, for example, that in 93, 1993, the Parliament also held a debate on the same subject, when the law was passed, then the finance minister refused the proposal, explaining that it was money laundering. Therefore, non-profit organisations could not get a release with a reason that money laundering could occur. So in the debate a few months ago, also held by the Ministry of Finance with NGOs as one of the reasons for abolishing this regulation was to reduce abuse and ease control. We therefore oppose generalisation in this very way all of these non-profit associations, especially associations that protect as we state the values of Article 3 where they are pre-proclaimed smugglers, etc. In fact, I think that this authority's mistrust with civil society organisations and civil initiatives that should play a very large role right in the control of the public sector. So, that the civil sector is controlled by the public sector and I can only say a little while longer that, for example, the Gong funds did not receive an association called the Partnership for Social Development, which deals with corruption in Croatia this year. As regards therefore business control, including non-profit organisations themselves, agreed to strengthen them, if such a law is passed, that they do not have to, with certain forms that must be fulfilled, so to be released, but to be regulated by law by law, by the members of the working group themselves, i.e. The NGOs and these non-profit associations, it concludes, I will actually read their words: "Members of the Working Party of the Civil Sector first advocate to increase the transparency and control of the business of all non-profit organisations, including associations, institutions, foundations, political parties, religious and social institutions, sports amateur societies, expressed their position through the offer to assist the tax administration in establishing better operating control mechanisms for the non-profit organisations themselves, particularly related to the release of VAT. They also proposed that the regulations provide for all non-profit organisations requesting a certificate of VAT exemption under the Law to be subject to tax inspection in the current year. So I don't think there should be any problem with the non-profit organisations themselves agreeing to all kinds of controls just to end this discrimination through this law. I think that is precisely why I said it is necessary to strengthen the civil sector in Croatia because we think that it has the utmost importance in developing democracy in Croatia and unfortunately from these views of the primarily Croatian democratic community we can read only that there is a certain mistrust in this civil sector, the question is what is behind it. So, once again, I call upon you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32968	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32969	Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act first reading, P.Z. No. 171. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion as a home working body. The proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act proposed by representatives William Herman, Željko Pavlic and Jozo Radoš for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports by the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. I find the proposed conclusion came with 68 votes for, 3 abstentions and 35 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32970	Let's move on. Let's not lift ourselves up at once, but individual days now turn out to be just because of the vote. We move to the proposal for amendments to the law on value added tax - Proposer of the Club of Representatives LIBRE, first reading, P.Z. No. 171. We've been over this. I'm sorry. We move to; - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of units of local and regional/regional/ self-government - Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading of P.Z. No. 156; Proposer of the Law is the Club of HNS-PGSA Representatives. You received the proposal by mail. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The hearing was not conducted by any committees. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Here you are, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet again one of the draft laws that was submitted in the procedure several months ago to the exact 6th of September last year. And from that day to today he moved from the agenda of the session to each other. But, well, at least today, let's discuss it. And why I mentioned the date of submission. We submitted this proposal to the law before the government came forward, proposed, and referred the proposal to the Parliament for the 2005 budget. Because we felt, we believe today that these laws during the financial years are not intended to be passed. It is not good to change or go with proposals that would be more important to re-methyl the adopted state budget, so we have already submitted the proposal in early September last year. And expecting to discuss it before we discuss the budget for this year. Also in September and October, especially during the debate on the state budget, several times announced that the government would come with a proposal for serious cuts in tax policy and implement tax reform. And in this part of the tax legislation, and in the meantime, he will propose to amend the law to implement further decentralisation of the state. The debate on tax reform was conducted but the government did not propose any changes to the law on the financing of local self-government. Part of decentralisation was carried out in the area where municipalities, cities and counties received new commitments, but not new funds to monitor the part of decentralisation. Another important point is that this bill of law was given in a package with a bill of amendments to the income tax law in which we proposed an increase in the untaxable part of the salary from then 1500 to 2000 kuna. And that's why the text of the bill's reasoning, so also because of the time it's been filed, and because it was in the package and the second law today, the data in the figures in that argument doesn't stand. So in a brief discussion, I'm going to say what should be changed there now. As well as the fact that Article 2 is a controversial and final article in order to start applying the law from 1.1.2005. And if you miss the second reading of those two shortcomings in the bill, we'll get rid of it. That's why it would be good and instructed to discuss it now. We're talking about the possibility of its entry into force. It's either 1.7 this year or 1.1 next year. And for that reason, the desire not to disturb more significantly than the adopted state budget. Meanwhile, on the government's proposal, the untaxable part of the salary from 1500 was increased to 1600 kuna. I must mention that always until now when the untaxable part of the salary has increased, the Law on the financing of local self-government has always been amended, and the increased share of cities and counties in the income tax area. And this was for the first time that there was an increase in the untaxable share of salaries and that at the same time the Government of the Parliament did not propose a change in the way of funding local self-government. Only from the fact that since 1.1 million kuna, the non-taxable share of salaries has been increased to 1600 kuna, the local and regional self-government units will achieve tax revenues by less than 320 million kuna than these revenues would have been if there had been no increase, namely because the government has not suggested a different redistribution of income from income tax. So, according to our proposal, what is the essence of our proposal. I remind my respected colleagues and colleagues that in the current income tax distribution law, it is done in the following way. The Fund for equalising decentralised functions sets out 21% of the tax collected, that the state retains between 24.6 and 25.6%, that municipalities and cities receive 34 to 37.9% of the difference in cities whether they are in areas of special state care, whether they are on islands or on other territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that the counties receive 10% as their original income, and 9.4% is financing decentralised functions for primary and secondary schooling, social and health care and 1% for cities for fire protection. Our proposal, and when we turn these breaks from the very article of the law into distribution, would be next. In order for 25% of the income tax collected to go to the Fund to balance decentralised functions, and if this would be accepted at the level of one financial year, it would be between a billion and a billion and 600 million kuna. The state would not receive anything from that income tax, municipalities and cities would gain a share in income tax 48 to 64%, depending on whether it is located in the area of special state care, whether on islands or in some other part, and county shares for original assets would be 14% and for decentralised functions 12%. We are aware that the country on an annual scale would lose about a billion and a half, a billion 600. According to this year's data, that would be the level. However, since these funds are moving to local and regional self-government according to our estimates, the first increase in local and regional self-government income would reduce their pressure on the state budget, especially for capital investments. Second, there would be an increase in the original incomes that serve as the basis for calculating the credit debt rights. Therefore, this credit potential of local and regional self-government would be increased, which would enable and encourage municipalities, cities and counties and thus reach more funds especially for capital investment. And I'm done for now with the next one. For this year, the state budget together with the extra-financial funds, i.e. in state-owned enterprises, is around 94 billion kuna. When we sum up the budgets of all municipalities, all cities and all counties in Croatia in this year, they together, including the city of Zagreb, will not be greater than 16 billion kunas. It is our proposal, our appeal and the requirement to release as much money from the state budget as possible at the local level and thus enable it to be as close to the decision-making site as possible, as close as possible to the citizens. I repeat, there's no confusion. The reasons and figures given in the explanation were written in the autumn of last year, which is why the change is in them, and as regards the proposal for the application of the law, it was proposed as of 1.1 this year. It is normal that this is no longer feasible, so we are thinking about either 1.7 this year or 1.1 next year so as not to remethyl the state budget for this year. And I'm done. I'm not sure that the parent committees didn't discuss this bill, the Honorable Mr. Vice President's report is gone, that's what I noticed, but I was in two committee meetings on behalf of the motion when I interpreted the proposal, so I find it odd that the committees didn't give their opinions, but something else was strange, I couldn't find the Government's opinion written. Well, that's probably why there's no opinion from the board in writing, but the debates were held, I was on two committees when the debate was over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32972	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, there are representatives Damir Cain and Valter Poropat. Here's the other one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32973	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government's honors, gentlemen of the Parliament. Anything that leads to the strengthening of local self-government IDS will support so much good among others we also consider the announcement of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to extend the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, i.e. the one on special state care. These two laws have been extremely helpful in some parts of Istria and Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia and Slavonia and simply have to remain in force. Finally, there are only 100 million kunas in question, and we want to believe that these texts will come as soon as possible before the MPs. Secondly, I'd like to refer to that thought that Mr. Lesar ended up with. From 100% of the arrival of cca. So about 110 billion kuna of public money, 4.5% of the waste in the city of Zagreb, about 10 billion kuna on 560 units of local self-government, which is the municipality, which is the county and about 85% of the money in the central state. Of these 10 billion kunas or 10% of the total public money in the county, it means of these 10% wastes no more than 20% or a total somewhere around 1.7% at the state level and it is clear that such a state I would say at least unsustainable, such a situation is unspective and that means that Croatia should radically decentralisation and preferably modelled by the 1974 Constitution. Why? First, there is definitely war behind Croatia. During the war, let's centralization maybe had some logic. Second, why is he calling on that Constitution? Because the fastest development Croatia had in the period from 74th to 90th among others precisely because of decentralisation when more than 60% of the fiscal income was available or was available at local level when local self-government was elected by the President of the Court, which certainly is not well higher than the independence of the institution, but it was better than what it did so-called. Pasalic's commission. At that time, they elected congregations of the head of finance, inspectors, the head of the catastra, and today the mayor or mayor can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarch, because they're so-called. State officials. And finally, thirdly, this way of centralisation, as it is today in part in the Republic of Croatia, leads to the fact that the city of Zagreb will definitely suck up the whole of Croatia both in financial and economic terms and in demographic terms. Here in this town is the concentration of all ministries, of all major state-owned companies. Only the City of Zagreb and the County of Istria had more inhabitants than 91 according to the 2001 census. Clearly, this is primarily the result of slightly better economic opportunities in Zagreb and Istria, but no demographic boom in these areas. The State Statistics Office, just yesterday, 23.2. came out with data on gross social product by county, so the City of Zagreb has a gross output of 9 thousand 597, followed by Istria County with 7 thousand 223. Then, Primorje-goranska with 6 thousand 182 euros, Koprivacko-križevska has 5 thousand 634, while the Croatian average is 5 thousand 449. It's almost amazing, I really didn't even believe that if we exempt Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County who have above the republican average income per capita or this gross product, all other Adriatic County, from Sibenik-Kninska via Zadar, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik, Neretvanska, have income below the Republican average. Gentlemen, at the very least, it's a tragedy that at this moment, as I said, only four counties have a gross product above the republican average that is truly modest and which at this time amounts to slightly more than $7,000. We should certainly all imagine ourselves above that, and we at the IDS Club hold that the solution to getting out of such a situation is decentralisation. This situation as it is today is imperceptible, such a situation drags this country back. This situation is no longer to be controlled. It is easy for all the ministries in Zagreb, although we believe that this, too, should be dislocated on a politic basis. They are easily even leading public companies in the City of Zagreb. There are also all Croatian banks and even the largest tourist companies, now select Zagreb as their business centre. Zagreb is leaving a profit tax as is the case with the Poreč Riviera instead of leaving it to the City of Poreč. Therefore, we will either decentralize Croatia or destroy a lot of things with this kind of structure. That this situation is illogical, that it has become intolerable, every morning we have a chance to watch when here on this square hundreds of strike workers under the government window and knowing that their problems cannot be responded by local self-government, calls on the central government to try to resolve their essential, existential problems. In the end, I have the impression that only in Istria is not a strike, that everyone is doing their job, that everyone is still more confident in the county than in the state, whether it's a need to save the Istrian Bank or I don't know, some municipal construction. One more time before Valter Poropat starts speaking, IDS supports this Act because we are all aware that income on profits, i.e. income is not a crucial state income. And in order for these billions and a half of kuna funds to simply give birth to local self-government. I know that the state has huge liabilities based on loans to be paid back annually, based on salaries for nearly 200 thousand civil servants, based on pensions, health care, material costs. However, once again, I believe that this means through one form of decentralisation would mostly help the Republic of Croatia, and that the central government would greatly relieve the care of a whole series of existential needs of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32974	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished government gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. By considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government ahead of us, we in the IDS as firm advocates of decentralisation accept, as we accept and encourage any creative proposal that comes with its solution in favour of decentralisation of the state. From institutional decentralisation to decentralisation of financial resources. In this case, taking into account the Income Tax Act, which shares income from taxes between the state and the county, the municipality and the city, it should certainly support the amendment and addition of the same law as the one proposed in its opening statement. Amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government are proposed that the share of the state is not participated but that income from income tax be granted to units of local and regional self-government. For their needs and decentralised functions and part of the funds that would go to the Balance Fund to finance decentralised functions. Thus, the average participation of the Fund would be - and the rest would be distributed between municipalities, cities and counties, depending on whether they are located in areas of special state care or islands. And whether they're funding decentralised functions, which we're going to support in IDS, of course. What is important to local and regional self-government units, therefore, increases revenues. Their credit rating is increasing, with which development programmes can be planned in the longer term, and on the other hand, the state is being relieved, i.e. the pressure of local and regional self-government units is being reduced. Thus, there remains a balancing fund from which the poorest can be helped. I believe this law goes towards decentralisation and therefore has support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32975	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32976	I'm correcting my colleague, Damir Cain. I don't think he's here. There you are. Damir said, I quote, "Only 4 counties have received above the republican average", finished a quote. Well, I guess you should say only four counties have received above the state average. So we finally have to get used to it being the Croatian state The Republic. [[What did I say?]] Because the "republic" on behalf of the Croatian state is just a title for the form of rule and you and everyone else will finally have to get used to being a Croatian state. So just above the national average because "republic" is an association of some unfortunate times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32977	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32978	Dear Mr. Vice President, just to write it down, Ivan Kolar, not Kolak. ... And you said that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I heard it. I'm so sorry. Okay, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the ministry. Here are a few words about this Law, although the proponent himself has already said that the intention of the Law itself was at the time when the state budget was passed and clearly that the initiative was accepted. Reflection is with the right of local administration and self-government would be certain to strengthen local and regional self-government in a way that has more resources. However, since we are discussing this after six months, it is at least good to discuss and present some views in principle. The HSS does not object, but supports such a debate, although decentralisation of funds results in strengthening local administrations and self-government and, in fact, it is both intention and purpose of the whole process. I would also remind the introduction that the state territory of the Republic of Croatia is divided into counties, cities and municipalities which are actually units for themselves in the fiscal part, and although some responsibilities overlap mainly with the burden of everyday life is happening down and responsibility is carried by leaders or better said structure chosen by choice in one way or another by skill, by finding out how to come up with everyday life. The differences are huge, large from the local administration itself, where one municipality can have only one place or two to those who have 40 seats a thousand residents to final cities that have hundreds or thousands of inhabitants. In addition, all these units of local self-government have major problems financing their own needs. The decentralisation itself in the way of fiscal policy would make it clear that it is easier to manage finances, and it has shown in fact the ability of the local community to manage fiscal money. I feel free to say from experience that in fact in 93, when the first structure of local administrations and self-government was made until 2001 when the last changes were, that obvious progress was made in the local structure, thus and financing, however, concerned with decentralisation and decentralisation functions, in fact the concern that the central government actually has against the local community is that they are not given too many rights, but with the basic tasks that they need to do there is not sparring. In fact, the existing law now imposes obligations, but the rights do not follow from the basic financial force. That is why we in HSS estimate that Croatia is a highly centralised state from the basis of fiscal policy and that in fact this uniform regional development is only a mere fleet, and in fact the true state of affairs reflects the central budget or better centralisation of all powers in the way of managing fiscal money. This is one of the opportunities to help the local community so that it actually has its rights that it acquires by law and by the way that it can actually do so in part show. One of the main tasks in Croatia would be to reduce public expenditures of the central state budget and consolidate the general public register. But if we're just looking at the views of the state budget, and we're not looking at the local community budgets, so now I'm talking in the county and the municipalities, then that's shooting into the blank. I assure you that if the central bank is burdened with both external and internal debt, this is happening locally at one or another time, by enforcing all those who manage, they have the right to base their behavioural functions, because it is simply impossible to meet all the needs and standards that the people are looking for with the descent of the fiscal money that units of local administrations are getting. I am not going to repeat now those data that are clear to everyone, 5.6% of all the budgets that are moving in the local community resulting from the apparent results of that little money that gets and the HSS mainly estimates that the rationalisation of local administration units is actually the positive indicator that the... state register should adorn. However, our assessment is that the political resemblance is one of those where part of the state's money is left in a way and shoots directly through funds, through state agencies, etc. for the local community, past the fiscal force and the local community, which would belong to it if clear, clear criteria were to be distributed. And not to repeat now what the promoter is saying, I think that the process of decentralisation that started it needs to be continued in several phases, because let's just remember that the first phase of giving units to the local administration of those decentralised functions from the basis of the alignment has started. However, the process has been stopped, I believe that you are all witnesses like me that it does not continue with that dynamic and pace that was planned, because this is the reason for the change of government or some other, some other circumstances. But I don't think that's good, it should have continued, had the courage to actually give authority, but also by lowering the right to the financial force of every single unit of local administration. We propose that decentralisation and the transfer of power monitor responsibility and resources from a higher level of government, i.e. central state to a local level, and that process should continue. Namely, if we ensure accountability and transparency at all levels of administration, i.e. the need for clarity in determining roles by level of administration. Then clearly we need to support financially, not lower powers and give rights, rather than support them in a way that we have a real foothold in financial strength. We need to ensure the independence of local units both in the performance of tasks and in the achievement of incomes, which is most important to provide approximately the same opportunities for the provision of services to its residents. And that's impossible through constant... support for balancing in the proposed model of fiscal decentralisation. In fact, I believe that you meet as well as I do that someone is easier to achieve some level of standards, others harder, and all because they are not defined to the end of the clear rules and in a way that would be achieved. Furthermore, we should prescribe and establish standards so as to avoid existing practice, where state services prescribe standards for local units, instead of making regulations in the co-operation of central state, state and local units, or should eliminate in the implementation process to directly affect the local unit in the area of their responsibility and competence. I think who encounters the functioning of the local community more times sees that he is actually powerless and can do nothing if they are not clear rules, and the rules only come down to the means you have or not, in order to exercise the right to the entire Republic of Croatia here is how a colleague of Loncar told the state all residents have the same rights and in the same way can achieve them. I am speaking from the basis of the local community, where life is mostly taking place, the small and. And therefore this proposed model of funding for local and regional self-government would be good to support, this present understanding as a temporary model for persistently proposing changes based on monitoring, evaluation analysis and the achievement of the fiscal capacity of local units in a three-year fiscal period, taking into account the need to meet the necessary conditions for promoting regional development and economic development of the state. I think it's all said in this last sentence because our goal is actually to minimise the differences, and actually the rights that we can do, at the same time and in the same way. That is why, even though this proposal is six months late, I think it is a good opportunity for the debate and that it would be good for the central government, the central cashier is considering fiscal strengthening of local administration units with clearly established criteria, because only local tasks if they are achieved at a temporary pace, they also result in the general well-being of the central state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32979	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32980	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a brief introduction. Forming nearly 600 units of local and regional self-government... In 1993, there was a prerequisite for a strong momentum in the construction of municipal infrastructure, a rapid planning of space for areas that had never even had space, let alone detailed plans and created a good basis for the formation of business zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we ignore a small number of municipalities and cities where the expectations of the local population were not met, it took advantage of the opportunity to influence the development of its area of housing. Let's remember that it was the first major decentralisation in governance. Taking over the founding rights of kindergartens, co-financing of schools, fire departments, especially social ones, the obligation to build municipal infrastructure, and often construction and space for work because many municipalities did not even have a place where they worked pointed to a lack of money in local budgets. In addition, the budgets reduced the increase in the untaxable base on several occasions, almost forced the withdrawal of money for "Employee 1 and 2", particularly irresponsible was the allocation of benefits, which resulted in a huge return on taxes povertyed budgets. Here I can say an example only in the first week, about a little less than a year ago in the municipality of St. Sunday was taken off to pay taxes about a million kuna. We expect a similar show this year with this continuing for several weeks. In return, cities and municipalities had nothing to do with it. Something better went by areas of particular social interest, mountain mountainous areas we certainly support. Taxes on income in most cities and municipalities are the biggest income, so any announced change affecting the level of that tax and the percentage in the distribution are carefully observed. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government states that the total income tax revenue for 2004 is about 7 and a half billion kuna. From that, cities and municipalities have read it, and the county gets about 4 and a half billion kuna. It is popular to bid with an increase in basic personal deduction, so we find a proposal to make it 2,000 kuna. At the time of writing the proposal was in effect 1500 kuna, we remember. This would reduce income tax revenue by around 2 billion kuna. Further mathematics by the promoter, while retaining the necessary fund, balancing the income of municipalities, cities, municipality, cities and counties would increase by about 650 million kuna. So that's what the proposal says. It is forgotten that we would get the most from here if it were big and rich cities, and small municipalities and cities very little. The Alchemy of the Proposer is confirmed in the sentence that financial resources are not necessary for the implementation of this law. A superficial analysis with little mathematics would show that the state budget loses around 2 billion kuna and simply by mathematics we can show that municipalities, cities and counties would get a higher percentage but less money. Namely 7 and a half billion less than two are five and a half, less 1.3 for the Alignment Fund is 4.2, and so far they've had 4 and a half plus the Alignment Fund. The proposed changes would not increase the number of cities and municipalities that would take over decentralised functions, and the deficit in the state budget would certainly reduce the different types of aid that enable poorer municipalities and cities to implement local projects in cooperation with the ministries. We expect that better tax on income, especially by applying employees to real pay, can result in significantly higher income. Wherever we look, very few employees who work with private employees are registered for real pay. The announced reform of the tax system should provide for a significantly different position for cities and municipalities for faster decentralisation. The HDZ Club believes that the proposed amendments to the law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government of the municipality, cities and counties will get nothing and we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32981	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32982	Honorable Vice President, honourable Ministry representatives, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I must express my personal dissatisfaction with this case as president of the Assembly Committee on Local Self-Government. This is for the first time in this House, we have discussed in this conference a law that was not discussed by the parent body, which is the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, and we have not discussed because the parliamentary majority in my Committee has therefore told the chairman that we will not discuss any legislative proposal that has no government opinion. So this is one big precedent that the parliamentary session here at the plenary session has come up with something that the majority's will could not be discussed on the parent board. As well as I, as chairman of the Committee, am expressing great dissatisfaction and I will also report in writing to the President of the Parliament. As SDP Club, of course, we will support this Act because the SDP advocates a major reform of the administration and state and local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and we want to strengthen, strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, that units of local self-government receive all those powers that mean the direct daily life of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and that they get the necessary money to realise and realise it. It should also be reminded once again that in 1990, there was an overall etatization. So with the movement of feathers, the state took over, kidnapped the municipalities at the time everything that the citizens had built for many years, took away everything that the citizens had built, especially by calling out and giving out local self-dependences. It's about schools, it's about hospitals, it's about roads. Only in 2001 did the coalition government have the courage to take a major step and start the decentralisation process in the Republic of Croatia. Let me remind you, then, in 2001, 1.7, July 1st, the municipalities and cities of pardons, 32 and 32 of them, respectively, took over the founding rights over certain institutions. They therefore took responsibility for the functioning of these institutions, but what is even more significant is that they also received part of the common taxes. Of course we can argue we can pollomise whether it was enough, if it wasn't enough, whether we needed more or needed less. If you ask me I'll say you should have more decentralisation of the tax. And in 2001. In order to resuscitate this lack of decentralisation tax was made so-called. A alignment fund that allowed everything that was decentralised to function at a level as it was when it was centralized. But what happened in 2001 to date, it happened that the vast majority of local self-government units that took over decentralised functions succeeded with the same amount of money to increase the quality of what was decentralised. Both in schools and hospitals and in social institutions and in the home of pensioners. Therefore, the units of local self-government proved to be more efficient in managing the same budget money as the state. What else has turned out to be? Units of local self-government have proved to be better able to identify specific problems and deal with them more effectively. DAthere are shorter ways to implement the acquisition that there is a more efficient way to get the funds that need to be invested, for example, in a primary or a secondary school. What else has turned out to be? It has been shown that directors are no longer for banal things, for example in primary school and in high school they should call a minister or assistant minister to get some change in money to fix, for example, a broken front door at their school. They had all their funds or their budget within the city budget, or within the school budget, and they did so with their school councils or school boards or further with their mayor or with their mayor. And they had precisely certain assets that they could invest in investment maintenance, unlike the ones until 2001 when it was essentially not known. But it must always be strained when making a budget for a common item and then begging and whining at the minister’s door whether a school will get something. So every city, every municipality, every county knew how much money there was, for example, for investment investments in social care facilities in its area. And this led to a great security and these institutions and also citizens because they knew that year after year they would be invested in their schools in their hospitals. You have an example of my county where from 90th to 2001, besides donations to today's county hospital that we talked about earlier in the afternoon and talked about, no apparatus was purchased. The only thing doctors and patients managed to buy through donations or humanitarian actions could have been bought. From 2001 to this year, 10 million kuna County has to buy medical devices for the county hospital and for health homes. Unfortunately, today we are returning to the situation that this will no longer be allowed to the county and county hospital, to call a tender, but it is said that the ministry will re-open a joint tender for all devices in the health ministry segment. I'm afraid of the situation to get to the point where someone doesn't come up with it and the Ministry of Education. So that the Ministry of Education, for example, will open a tender for the purchase of goods for school kitchens, so that, for example, you can drive bread to Makarska from Split. Because someone from Split will be more favourable than a baker from Makarska. So today we're talking about the opposite process. We're talking about a continuation of decentralisation that started in 2001, and that had the courage of Racan's government initiating-- This is the first government in Croatia that has said we are transferring you powers but we are also transferring you a part of the money. I agree with the colleagues who said it was insufficient. But let's not talk about taking it now. Let's just say, let's fix that mistake now if there is and give the local self-government units enough money to function what they've taken over today. And otherwise when the Prime Minister proposed his four-year programme, he spoke of universal decentralisation. Unfortunately, in the 2005 budget and the 2006 and 2007 budget projections, there is no indication of the decentralisation of gentlemen. There is no indication that the state will give up part of its common tax. And that which We speak of. Now it turns out here that mayors and mayors would like to kidnap half of the state budget. No, today in Croatia you have a income tax of just over 3 billion. You have a situation where profit tax amounts to just over 3 billion. 70% of that profit tax is made by the state. Somewhere around 605 when you take decentralised income tax functions, the local self-government unit earns. So we're talking about a total of less than 3 billion. Well, someone won't say here that the state's problem is to say the 91 billion in budget okay. Now we're going to give local self-government 3 billion units that's 35 budgets. 3% of the state budget today we're talking about being transferred to the local self-government unit. At that time, it would happen that the vast majority of local self-government units can fully meet all decentralised functions and that the need for a settlement fund would become significantly less. In which we will never be likely to be in a situation where all units of local self-government are able to take care of all the functions they have by law or by the state. But that's why there's a central state. Therefore, in the future, there will be regions to take special care of units of local self-government which, for certain reasons, have not given areas of special state concern, have given mountaineering, have given municipalities on islands or elsewhere, islands can't worry and cannot achieve tax revenues to meet all the functions expected of them. That's why sometimes in the future there'll be quite certain funds of alignment. And at regional level, but certainly at central state level. This sign of acceptance of this law would be one small sign of central government's attention to local self-government. It would be to show great confidence to the local self-government, especially before the elections that we are sure that in ten years, local self-government is as many as there are in Croatia as it has been for 12 years, that local administrations have been able to deal with a slightly larger budget so that they can bear responsibility for what is happening in their areas and that they can solve the problems of their citizens. They're doing it today. And today they're doing it with a much harder situation, because all cities and municipalities except two and three depend on examples of a fund for alignment. So you had a situation in 12 months when you couldn't get funds for decentralised functions from the settlement fund but you only got them on 10 or 12 January this year. The municipalities and counties have fulfilled their obligations. And to the firemen, both to schools and to hospitals. No matter what decentralised funds have not arrived. And there they have shown that even with those difficulties that they have to worry about what the state has entrusted them with. And I assure you that the citizens expect that we have all promised them except for the HSP's thought that they will have direct elections for the mayor in the next local elections. It is now absolutely certain that this will not happen because the Law is supposed to be unprepared. So we said that no other laws could be prepared, and now the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government, amending and supplementing both of these laws will come to our next session. So the laws are being prepared. They had come to make sure that they had been willing and willing since 23 December 2003. So that the government had the will and will to do what it had promised the citizens, which is why it had the citizens' trust to do so. It could allow citizens to directly select leaders in their units of local self-government, for this there are models. All our neighbors, all our neighbors, have found ways to directly elect mayors and mayors. The only thing we don't seem to be able to find, write a law and find a way to do it. All our neighbours have significantly higher funds in common taxes, i.e. total taxes collected in the country than Croatia has. We are the most centralised country of the Member States of the European Union and candidate countries for the European Union. This law, proposed by colleagues from the HNS-PGS, stands for 6 months on the agenda. There was plenty of time if it wasn't to accept this law that the ministry was making its own bill. There was absolutely enough time, because if at that time there was time to change the Law on Public Roads where we imposed new obligations on cities, municipalities and counties. If there was time to change, to pass the Law on Protection and Rescue where we imposed new obligations on cities, municipalities and counties, then there was enough time for this Law to be seen by the Government, there was enough time for this Law to be manifested by the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional and Regional Self-Government and there was enough time if we did not want to accept it to carry out our own promise to the citizens, to implement our own programme that we presented here for this speaker and to pass a new Law on Elections, a new Law on Local Self-Government and a new Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units. We promised that to the citizens, the citizens must know that they will not be allowed to do so. There won't be any decentralisation, there won't be any direct elections. That is why and because the SDP advocates decentralisation will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32983	Thank you. As for your dissatisfaction or protest that this item of the agenda was placed on the afternoon part of the session there is one gentlemen's agreement between clubs. If there is no opinion of the Government or the parent body, it has not been debated that, and according to this, amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I see that the honourable representative Lesar is giving a sign of approval. So your representative club president had to inform you of this gentlemen's agreement between the club representatives. As regards the procurement of the Ministry of Health through the combined purchase of individual appliances, individual appliances have reached a price between 20 and 50% lower than the price achieved in certain health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32984	I didn't normally object that this afternoon was at the hearing...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32985	No, no, I didn't say. You objected to what it was, which was not discussed by the parent bodies on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32986	That's right. That's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32987	I've answered you why today...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32988	Because the HDZ representatives, they didn't allow...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32989	No, no, let me, let me. I'm just explaining why she's not in the afternoon but she's on the agenda at all today. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've already partly helped me in this correction. Coli Mršić expressed one fear, namely, one claim that centralised procurement, i.e. united procurement, is deprived of the right of local self-government to be made available by decentralised means. That's not true because local self-government has its own decentralised resources and it determines exactly what it needs to be invested in, what it needs to be invested in. However, central procurement, i.e. combined procurement, aims to achieve the best possible price for those bases they all provide. And here it is, and now it's mentioned. 20 to 30, 40% cheaper, which is savings, and that money can still be used for other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32991	Thank you. We move to an individual debate of 10...... I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary, the esteemed representative, Lesar. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought at the end of the debate, now I'm going to say what I have to say, I'm not going to answer again because there's obviously no effect. Because data or bill proposals are deliberately misread. Then let's take the turn. Doesn't mean I have to finish this, does it? No, thank you. So let's take it in a row. We remember the debate on the budget and all proposals on further decentralisation. Returning VAT to 22% and saving out 3 billion kuna in the state budget. In the light of the possibility of compensating those 3 billion when we cut it, 3 billion will be charged, compensated for increased control and a better tax charge. The VAT is 22, that's 3. I'm guessing you've increased the charge and the charge discipline, that's another 3 billion a year in the state budget. So that 6 billion is in the budget. Here we are now discussing the possible loss of the state budget of a billion and a half. Less because I repeat that the pressure of local self-government on the state budget will be lower, that their credit ratings will grow. And that's why it's not a direct damage to the state budget, under quotes, 3 billion than smaller. Secondly, arguing on behalf of the HDZ Club, counterpart Markovovic said first, that the large and the rich would get more and the poor less. This is simply not true, and given that it is a very complicated mathematics, it should at least then be read the proposed text of amendments and additions and be understood. If so far municipalities and cities in the area of special state care and the island have received 37.9% of income tax and, according to our proposal, we suggest that they get 64%, that it is not a small change. If the rich won't get more out of the proposal that the City of Zagreb would not be paying 21% more than 30% in the decentralisation Fund. The State Fund for Decentralised Functions, therefore, rich in Zagreb. He'd be paying more 9% than he's paid so far just because the rich don't get any more, the poor almost nothing. So we suggested different rates by counting and keeping an eye on it. That the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on Special Government Areas will not cease to apply this year, that we will extend its value for at least 5 years, and that these two laws rely on this Law on the financing of local self-government, thanks to which the municipalities, the cities in the area of tax revenues have increased once a year. It is, therefore, the link between these laws. Furthermore, there are alchemy in this bill. I asked twice to put the figures aside because they're six months old and before the State budget for this year. And the HDZ colleagues were not clear how it explained that the effect would be 645 million, and now I mentioned significantly larger funds. That's right. Because then we suggested that the untaxed part of the salary be 2000 kuna and then the net effect of these changes would be around 640 million kuna, then by voting in the Parliament, you refused and accepted the government's proposal that the untaxable part of the salary would be 1600 kuna. Since the non-taxable part of the salary is 1600, the tax base is far higher than our proposal and therefore the net effect in favour of municipalities and cities would be a billion to a billion to a billion million, these times higher it is... mathematics and knowledge of how to calculate and distribute the tax collected as well as establishing a tax base, and it is true that we are now talking about significantly higher funds in favour of local and regional self-government. According to our proposal, municipalities and cities on the island from income tax which do not finance decentralised functions 64% of the municipality and the city 26% of the county and only 10% of the fund for balancing decentralised functions. On islands cities that finance decentralised functions, 64% of them 26% of the county, 10% of the balancing fund. The area of special state care 60% of municipalities and cities, 14% of the county, 25% of the level of decentralised functions, and this has been our effort to make even more money go to municipalities and cities on islands and special state care just making sure that the original funds are not waiting for decentralised funds, not waiting for money from the state budget by some projects, the bigger the original revenues of municipalities, cities and counties is the decentralisation of the state is helping to activate their resources and about the rich and poor and thus I will end up. The government is one false picture of which the Croatian regions are rich, which are poor, where we have to help and where it is who I am that is who it is. Since the most recent data is possible for the 2002 account, I hope we get the possibility of processing and in 2003, here's just a few data for 2002. When all tax revenues, all municipalities, cities and counties are summed up together, and calculated by the head of the population and the same county, then it turns out to you that the Međimurje County per capita makes tax revenues at the annual level of 1618 kuna, that Krapina-Zupanija generates income 1545 kuna, that Zagreb County earns such income 2297 kuna, Karlovačka 2281, Koprivnička-križevčka 2300, ličko-senjska 2614, Split-Dalmatia 2649. So, it's not always the impression and the personal court that someone rich is backed up and this data of tax revenues per capita. And finally, a colleague of the Committee on Local Self-Government was angry not with the fact that we are now discussing this but rather with the fact that the parent board was prevented from discussing this point by the majority's decision on the grounds that there was no government opinion. And it is true that we have agreed that all cases are going to the Parliament's agenda, whether the Government's opinion is given or not, and it is being carried out here, but on committees, there is an old rule that representatives of the ruling majority do not accept the debate if there is no government opinion, in this way he could not even debate the parent board. So it would be good to introduce this gentlemen's agreed rule before amending the Rules of Procedure into the parent, or parliamentary bodies, and in this context, calling on the rulings not to prevent any further discussions on committees in the old way and with old excuses. Please, I urge you to release the Law into another reading, we suggest it applies from 1. 1st year, as a compromise solution, not to touch this year's budget, let's work together to help municipalities and cities know how much money they will have in the next financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32993	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, the honourable representative of STazic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32994	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Lesar, let this last appeal go to another reading to help units of local self-government, I'm convinced it falls into deaf ears. The government's original attitude towards local self-government units and the problem of decentralisation is entirely genuine. The decentralisation of commitments, but not decentralisation of funds, is a pattern of behaviour, and the prime minister in his inaugural speech as Prime Minister announces general decentralisation. You see, when an untaxable share of the salary is increased, or this amount of personal deduction from 1500 to 1600 kuna, we warned the citizens will not have much, 100 kuna won't notice, the former government has been more generous in this, so from 1000 it raised the untaxable part to 1500 kuna, 500 kuna has increased the untaxable share. But at the same time, it also amended the Law on the financing of local self-government units to compensate for that damage to local self-government units. This government increases the untaxable share by 100 kuna but refuses this bill, does not offer its own bill, so the 100 kuna has paid off and paid off units of local self-government, not from the central register, because these will have less. He meant on the one hand such political points, but they're not great because they're worth only 100 kuna, and on the other hand it's a huge damage, because that damage amounts to 320 million kunas for local self-government units, which, by increasing by 100 kunas of the non-taxable part, these remain without 320 million kuna, and no one gives them that money back. No one. What the government's attitude towards the units of local self-government is sufficient to bear witness to the fate of this legislative proposal here since 6 September in the parliamentary procedure, there is no government opinion, the government has not found time to concentrate on this problem and to give a reasoned opinion. There isn't. There is no opinion of the board, or even of the parent, and we hear that why, because the parliamentary majority, because HDZ does not allow a debate on this issue to be opened in the parent committee, without the government's opinion, we do not know why. Is that what members of the HDZ Committee cannot formulate their opinion if they do not get the government's opinion, why they did not debate. If I may, you should have discussed it, let's hear what the parent board thinks about it. Such a relationship with local self-government units must be changed. Listen, we can't keep making all new and new commitments on them, not giving them money. It won't go on like that. Further centralisation or better to say by stopping decentralisation, citizens are turning into subjects. The power of the minister is stronger. The Minister of Finance arbitrarily determines the projects in which the local self-government unit is to operate and which one is not to be supported by the budget. Whether according to the political criteria, whether by the birth criteria, it doesn't matter. But that criterion is arbitrary. I'm actually surprised, I'm surprised to you we're standing in front of local elections. How will you gentlemen of the HDZ go before voters in municipalities, cities and counties? How will you explain to them why? Why do you refuse to accept this law? Why do you refuse these people to receive funds and to be able to perform their function normally? Why don't you want the income tax to stay with local self-government units? So from what will they co-finance education? From what will healthcare be co-financed? What are they gonna do to fix those unclassified roads? What's the fire department gonna pay for, from what? Because now that the pre-elections are starting, explain it to them. From what? But tell them that you have rejected this proposal of the HNS-PGS Act, which all other parliamentary parties support. Explain that to them. What kind of message are you sending them? So you know what kind of message that is? So you are not the mayors, the mayors of the municipalities, the mayors, you will not decide which school you will build or repair in your area, which you will build or repair, which you will restore to an unclassified road. No, you won't. That's what the minister will decide. So you either try to court the minister or be obedient, or in some other way to get some of that kind of money. If this hadn't accidentally convinced me of Mr. Markovanovic's speech on behalf of HDZ. He says tax breaks and tax returns are a show. That it's a show program. I didn't think I heard right. Is this show, Mr. Markovanovic, ask the citizens, who get back taxes based on these benefits? That's what they're asking, is that a show program? Look, it's quite clear now that after this performance of the HDZ, after this government's impasse, because the government has no position, after obstruction of the debate on the parent board, it is quite clear that the announcement of Prime Minister Sanader from the beginning of the term of office is followed by general decentralisation, untrue. There is no decentralisation, no decentralisation of the citizens of this country can be hoped for as long as the parliamentary majority, as long as the government in this country behaves the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32995	Replication, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maria Byte, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On several occasions, Coli Stazić injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 214., where he defamed and insulted Croatian Democratic Community representatives inappropriately. And as for the talk on the Committee on Local Self-Government and in a way that the Committee on Local Self-Government does not have a majority in that committee without the opinion of the Government, unfortunately Mr Stazic forgot that in this Parliament, without the opinion of the Government, there was no debate in the Committee, and after the consensus reached by the President of the Parties in Parliament, it was agreed that he would go to Parliament's meetings without the opinion of the Government of the Bill, if clubs or representatives propose, and Mr President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32997	And now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32998	..he did not call again, because, with insults, this is about Mr. Vice President, because, with the insults that took place at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community Club and members of the Croatian Democratic Community Committee on Local Self-Government, Mr. Stazic also used Mr. Stazic in that section. That's why I'm correcting that a parliamentary club deal has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u32999	You can't fix it. Injury to the Rules of Procedure and you said it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot correct the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33000	Then I urge my colleague, Stazic, that he does not know and has no information in this House, and therefore went with insults to representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33001	That's what I said from this pay phone before. Representative..
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33002	Just like he always does.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33003	That was a replica, wasn't it? Replica, distinguished representative Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a replica of Mr. Stazic, and a part of his exposure when he said that you would go to these local elections, how will you address the voters. Well, I'll answer that. Representative Stazić, I will easily address my voters because I live in the city of Zagreb. In the city of Zagreb where there are two Chiefships at the same time, where there are two Assemblys at the same time, where one blockade was created in the city of Zagreb, where the blockade between HNS and SDP is cut off. At the same time, you are calling for Mr. Markovanovic's presentation when he said the show programs were happening. Right now, shows are happening around the city of Zagreb with Mr. Bandic, as he promises to do anything and does nothing. Sir, I'm going to run 11 grand and 600 locals four. The shameless still today is without drinking water. Today, 11000 and 600 citizens from 4. No water supply, no kindergartens, no school districts, they're all falling apart over 150 years old. It will be very easy for us to go to the elections and ask about our interest in the town of Zagreb, the budget of the city of Zagreb, 18% of the cut. And 18% cut in 4. Not even 0.5% of it went away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33005	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33006	You can see the citizens of the city of Zagreb already in the polls today when they declare about the City Administration are a positive opinion. In these SDP polls, it stands significantly better than the HDZ in the city of Zagreb. And I am convinced that this will be the result of the election. But let's leave it to the citizens. Let's leave that to the citizens. When I talked about it, what do you need to explain to the citizens, then I said very precisely that you should explain this to them, why do you reject this legal proposal? Why do you refuse that these units of local self-government get decentralised funds, so that they can build or rebuild schools, kindergartens, roads. And I wasn't insulting to anyone unless it's my question of insulting what you're going to tell them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33007	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33008	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs! Regarding the debate and discussing this bill, I would say that it is possible to approach it in two ways. It is one thing to determine according to the specific proposal itself and the other to say generally about the state and in some way the perspectives of local self-government. I would not support this concrete proposal for the reason that it was sent before a permanent period, together with a proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act, which was not achieved in the proposed model, thus accepting the increase proposed by a thousand and 500 to two thousand kunas of personal deduction, but then a thousand 600. So, and the complete math that was done here is falling into the water, it's said already, so it's been passed in the meantime and the state budget and that structure no longer stands. And the second thing that's more important to me than what I said for a reason. I don't think any part of the law that regulates the issues of local self-government financing can solve the problem of local self-government. I believe that the issues of local self-government when analysing and proposing some solutions must be approached in a way that changes this whole legislation, the Law on Local Self-Government and therefore the Law on the financing of local self-government. It was in 2001, so in the process at the beginning of the decentralisation of the county and larger cities took over the so-called decentralised functions in part of primary education cities larger and counties additional and secondary education social care through centres for social care and homes for old and powerless, and especially health care. Of course, with 9.4% of the additional share in income tax, it was not possible to finance these additional functions and the settlement fund was further enabled to cover in a certain standard that was prescribed. However, the question of how much the settlement fund is already a happy solution in its name when those who are the richest must also use funds from the settlement fund. By its name, the fund of alignment is a certain institution or body that allows the richer ones to help those who have not made enough income to cover certain basic functions. Especially a great burden which is given mainly to the counties is health care and therefore the state of health care and care of hospitals because unfortunately they are almost in all counties too big a problem given the size of their budget, to the number of employees and duebiosis they have been pulling for years. I therefore advocate a fully and generally new system that would also address the competence of local self-government and the question of adequate insurance of the source of income to cover these obligations that will be given by law. Unfortunately, all the changes that have taken place so far have been made in a way that units of local self-government have taken on new or additional commitments but the revenues they have made have not allowed these additional obligations to be covered. We quickly forget and almost almost no one even remembers by criticising certain centralisation that was of course a large part of our country was at war, a large part of our units of local self-government in no way could possibly cover all the needs that it had, not to talk about destroyed schools, hospitals, homes of health, kindergartens, destroyed municipal infrastructure, and of course it needed state help to restore that infrastructure. In 1997, the state was not within all its borders, it was not a full jurisdiction. It's been rebuilding and ending somewhere at the end of the millennium now, but somewhere along the way, it's still going on today. Therefore, this permanent centralisation was needed, it will still be, however, a series of functions really are possible and should be transferred to the lowest possible levels and these are our cities and municipalities. Finally, this concrete bill would in some way oppose its procedure or adoption, but I would also appeal to the government that, with new full legislation that would regulate the problem of local self-government and in particular the financing of local self-government as soon as possible in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33009	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33010	Thank you very much. Two things a respected colleague of Jelkovac. The very fact that the bill was given six months ago and that I said in the introduction that the figures were not identical then and today could not be an argument why you are against the law because the current figures go even more in favour of local self-government, so I expected it to be an argument for your decision to support the law. But something else worried me when you talked about the county after the introduction of decentralised functions from 1.7.2001 and that these counties had come into an awkward position because of the state of hospitals. Namely, when it comes to county hospitals, there is no decentralised means of authority and management of hospitals, neither for salaries nor medical costs, nor for nutrition, nor for medicines because the decentralised function of the competent county in hospitals was only part of the purchase of equipment of devices and space. Whatever means this is large or small, regular or irregular, it should not be used today for regular financing of hospital expenses. The only change that has been made in the decision on decentralisation functions is that even the County Assembly cannot make a list of priorities on its own unless it has been agreed by the Ministry of Health before. So, even self-determining priorities in the hospital by means that are given to the county's jurisdiction. It's the only change you've made in decentralised functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33011	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33012	A colleague, Lesar, never on one case or on a single case, can bring a general assessment, but also your claim that these changes in 2001 have nothing but additional resources. It's not true. It is only the acquisition of ownership rights that has taken place behind it a series of obligations that arise from it. And this character of ownership or quasi property is something else that a lot, a lot of things can be said to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33013	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As my esteemed colleague Vlado Jelkovac said earlier, two questions are actually open here. In today's debate, there is one political reflection on the system of units of local self-government the way the funding works and everything else that is going through today's debate. And the second question is the very proposal of these amendments and the addition of the law. I would, however, say a few words at first about this political thinking itself. Because I don't think it would be fair or fair to not remember things. Because if we realistically look at the system of functioning of local self-government units from 90th to today we see in many things the significant progress that has taken place in the premises of the entire Republic of Croatia in caring and caring about the needs of citizens. The share of municipal infrastructure, in the work of needs for health, education, culture and all other things that interest citizens in individual areas. But it is also a fact that we have to take into account some things to compare with today's days that were before 90th of that year when, yes, so we say one concern in a decentralised way, but however, that many units of local self-government at the time did not simply take care of their settlers, their smaller places, that there were a lot of problems when in many of our midst there was a situation where, with all the other taxes paid by citizens, they still had to separate from their own personal incomes 5, 10, even 15% of just contributions to building a few kilometers of asphalt road, to build a water line to build public lighting, or anything else. And that's why I think when we look at the whole problem of local self-government that, in this part of the 90th year, it's been here since the 92nd year when it started to mean the creation of a new system of municipalities and cities and counties, that it has contributed significantly to the development of all these units of local self-government. And that, finally, as much as possible in certain environments, depending on the importance of the engagement of the people who led those units of local self-government to make significant changes for the better in quality means part of the needs of the citizens in terms of municipal infrastructure. I'll just say one example. Since the past few years, it has been said that only commitments to local self-government units have been downgraded without being accompanied by financial resources. Because for one example, in 97, I became head of the municipal system in the city of Zabok, the budget was 7 million kuna. Today the budget in the city of Zabok is 18 million kuna. I don't know if this money came down from the clear sky if there was an increase of 11 million kuna in practically 8 years in one unit of local self-government. But we also have to say in the second part of what I was saying that this issue is not only political thinking but also the bill itself, that this bill with this proposed financial decentralisation that is propagated by these changes and additions in my opinion will serve only the Majorisation of the Republic of Croatia means that big cities will benefit from it. The fact is that Mr. Lesar also said that the city of Zagreb may have a little less but in any case it will have more resources from these changes. But also there we must consider all other cities in the Republic of Croatia where it has not been changed. So from Rijeka, Split. Osijek, Varazdin, Chakovec and so on and so on. Where he'll get more money, he'll get a bill like this. IT IS important to say that small towns, small municipalities, with 1,000, 2000 inhabitants in existence in the Republic of Croatia will not benefit greatly from such a law. Which is why they won't be much use. It will not be of great benefit primarily to one reason why such small environments, given their million-and-a-half budget, two million or three million kunas, when they need to do some major procedure for their municipal infrastructure when they have to build a school, when they have to build any other facilities are always dependent on the assistance of the central state. And I agree with the existing system means that decentralisation doesn't always need to go at all times with the meaning of political decentralisation, that it shouldn't be in decentralisation of decision-making and financial decentralisation. It is certain that this legislation will not bring as a magic wand honey and milk to all units of local self-government a fortune for the rich and, in my opinion, will impoverish the poor. And there's one more thing you'd like to say and that's the area of state interest. The areas of state interest spoken of by Mr Lesar should also be taken into account that the income and profit law that we have accepted as part of the acceptance and budget that have set certain specific provisions and on the meaning of these tax duties, income tax and income for local self-government units located in areas of particular national interest that attract investment. And I think that first and foremost every law on local self-government should have and take care that the economy is returned to the areas of national care. The primary economy, and only then on the basis of the economy with the help of the central state to build the municipal infrastructure needs in education, sport and all other cultural needs that these units of local self-government have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33015	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33016	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I want to, but I can see that there's no more colleague byte to tell her that, indeed, by the conclusion of the ruling majority on the Committee on Local Self-Government, it is said that we will not put forward proposals of the laws or anything else that we have no opinion of the Government. No one has ever delivered in any form to the committee that an agreement has been reached and the level of club presidents to change the practice in this House. Or to change the Rules of Procedure. As far as I know in the procedure, it's an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, but we're still working on the current Rules of Procedure. And I'm convinced and several times I tried to put some agenda points on the agenda, and this one six months ago, and just when I wanted to put this item on the agenda of the Committee on Local Self-Government, the ruling majority came to that conclusion. Therefore, if there is a change of practice or a more authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, then it is known how those who have certain obligations are informed. Therefore, if something was brought to the Bureau of Parliament, there is a channel of way and way.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33017	Mr. Snotty, would you like something on the amendments and the additions to the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33018	Yeah, yeah, yeah, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33019	This has nothing to do with amendments to the law and this agenda. I'm asking you to focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33020	Not Mr. Vice President. It was impossible for the parent committee to discuss this subject and I am warning you again about this precedent. In the debate, you have interpreted my statement quite differently, and I now want to tell you what the truth is, what the truth is. That's what I'm talking about, isn't it? The fact is that it was not possible to put it on the agenda of the parent board. These are also the facts that the ruling majority prevented us from doing so. And now I'd like to talk about some other things, yeah. So, this law wonders me, my colleague Plesko came out, and I'm surprised when he says that this law will make him richer and poorer. Because this bill is the first bill of law to transfer money to local self-government units, and it does not pass any obligations. So this is the first time someone suggests that local self-government units get more money and that's why they don't need to get any further commitments. Therefore, every municipality that has at least one employee will receive at least one kuna more. It is therefore impossible for the poor to be poorer and richer. They will all receive as much as they have employees and as much income from income tax on the basis of these employees, i.e. how many employers they work for pay salaries and pay taxes to those persons. And income tax is paid according to where these people live, so according to the place of residence. But a few more facts. So, in the '90s, it's all been really etched. All of this Croatian state has taken away the municipalities and citizens that these citizens have worked and built. So hospitals were taken, schools were taken, roads were taken. Today you have a situation in Koprivnica that the city wants to build public lighting at the crossing of the county and state roads, so in an area that is in no way in the responsibility of the city. The Croatian roads send a contract and a bill to the city to pay the amount of land service fees along the state road built by the citizens of Koprivnica Municipality, which still stands in the grantovnica on the town of Koprivnica where Croatian roads and county road management should finance the construction of public lighting. So, now that the city wants to solve this problem where several people died, now Croatian roads are sending the city a bill for land service in a way that you can't pay it once and for all, but rather inform you that you can pay once in 10 years, but after 10 years you will have to re-pay land service. That's the way it is. That's the situation on the ground. Same with schools, same with hospitals. And I agree with the fact that there may be a place where you can cheap your supply if we get some hospital devices together. But in 2001, we took over the transport of students in primary schools. We've called a competition. Until then, Chazmatrans carried children in the area of the town of Koprivnica. We got a 25% cheaper offer for transporting children, four lines higher, for higher-quality buses and for school buses. Chazmatrans carried children to school lines, so on line buses. It showed up in Koprivnica a huge savings. With that 25% we've done, we've bought some equipment in elementary schools in the city area. Chazmatrans had a non-quality service, expensive service, and not by law, because the law stipulates that you can't have a line bus to transport school children, but you have to have a school bus. But if there's a wasteland somewhere, if there's someone out there who's getting more expensive equipment than anyone else, and you punish him, don't punish those who rationally have state money. And I assure you that in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, he is in a rational mood. And I assure you that it is certainly possible and it was supplied to the cheapest, cheapest equipment in the country of Croatia. Today, I repeat, there have been stories here about the hospital. You know, in Koprivnica, according to the decisions of the Ministry of Health, a decision was made to build a new building in which two floors would be built from the World Bank loan, and two floors were to be built from contracts signed by the county with the Ministry of Health. So, County, Ministry of Health and General Hospital. The government has made, behold, wonders, a decision that 10 such contracts exist, that 5 are broken up, and 5 are continued, to continue to build with an explanation that the works have started somewhere, some work has not started. By the time the case in Koprivnica was played, all the country's work was done the moment the government made that decision. And not only that, but on a contract signed with a contractor is also the signature of a representative of the Ministry of Health from this government's Assembly of the Government. And now it's been explained that the government has no ability to give money to build that building. It's gonna be a little weird because the World Bank loan is financing the basement and second floor. I don't know how to make ground floor and first floor, or how the second floor will be done if there's no ground floor and first floor. But there's a way. So we're talking about decentralisation. So the government can increase decentralised funds for education investments in health care at any moment, and I don't know what, only if it wants to. If he doesn't want to, he'll stay on this. The government has not changed the minimum standards and has not raised the amount of money decentralised. Well, he can. Schools can be built not from state direct investment, but by increasing decentralised funds. Well, that's the meaning of decentralisation, so that's the meaning of the settlement fund, so that's the meaning of decentralised funds. Not to be in the cross ministry but to allow what are local budgets, i.e. local chieftains and councils to foresee to be built, to enable people to do so. And it's all in accordance with the law. So if you want to build an internal hospital in Koprivnica, you just have to tell the General Hospital in Koprivnica that you will get 80 million kuna in 10 years more decentralised than anticipated. And the thing is completely clean. But not only that, the General Hospital in Koprivnica is forced to sign a contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute where the amount of the annual budget is increased by 5%, while the health minister signed a contract with doctors who were promised a 12% salary increase. And that hospital should pay those salaries out of those funds. Otherwise the General County Hospital in Koprivnica is one of the most thrift and rational, you probably know. Therefore, I appeal to my HDZ colleagues in particular, for example, my colleague, Pleška, who claimed that unlike most of his club, that not only obligations but also money were transferred, because in Zabok there was an increased budget, to support this law, because here for the first time we will really transfer money to local self-government units without increasing and creating new obligations. And this is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect, especially in front of local elections, to know who they choose, what powers and how much money future headsmen and councils will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33021	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in principle, I agree with your debate. You have pointed to a problem that exists not only in relation to this health care, but in the case of procurement, the obligation to respect the Public Procurement Act, the laws must exist in order to have order, but also sometimes show us that strict law enforcement brings us into one situation that is not exactly the best solution. But as long as the law is as it must be respected. That doesn't mean that it can't be changed in those segments that show that they're not good at applying, and this situation right now with if we go back to the hospital that's exactly what it is. One part of the contract was signed, and the law was broken. What the works have to be done, they have to be finished, they can't stay. But in those counties where contracts are signed, and they are not in accordance with the law, and the works are not started, so there can be no damage to the other party that went into business, it's not her fault that we didn't bring all our activities in line with the law, they didn't go on there, did they? I'm just saying that there are always solutions if there's a good will and there's going to be a hospital thing going on in Koprivnica because I see that you have a desire to solve this problem and help solve this problem, but there's a central authority to say so, and I think that's going to work it out, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33023	Thank you. Replication response, Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33024	Well, I just wanted to point out not to punish those who can, but to those who will, or only to take care of those who can't, don't know or won't. And here we are in a situation to punish them all once or for some general decision. In particular, in the case of the county hospital, the county hospital was punished, the contract was terminated, or the government made a decision to terminate the contract, not yet had the act, an unfortunate act, arguing that no works had been initiated. I repeat that the works at the moment of the government's session were a big start and that the contract signed by an authorised representative of the Ministry of Health and that the agreements are not illegal because the government has committed itself to increasing decentralised funds, which is fully in line with the law. The government can do that, it has to define such standards, and it did that. We can only discuss that part about direct investment in the county hospital, that's 35% in Koprivnica, but the government can say in a special decision that it wants to do, so it increases the standard in that. So the agreements are fully in line with the law. I appeal to you that the central government also has so much desire, will and desire to complete a project that is really important that we don't get into a situation and that we don't embarrass ourselves again in front of the World Bank as we did with the "bis het helt dog" we discussed today, bury and finish the basement and then do not know what because, at the request of the Government, there has been a change in the project so that both internal and labs and units of intensive care have been built together. I urge you to help the central state solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33025	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later. Proposer's representative said he wouldn't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33026	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. First reading, P.Z. No. 156. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS, is not adopted. Please engage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33027	I'm sorry to bother you at your pace, Mr. President, but the conclusion you've now quoted is not... to hear for the first time that such a proposal exists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33028	You're right, it's not divided, it's oral in the debate on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33029	And that was the proposal for an oral conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33031	Which article of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33032	We can do it by free interpretation, such a suggestion of conclusions we had in practice, but it does not mean that it cannot be formalized in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33033	Well, I'd like the vote to be postponed until it's written in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33034	Okay, he's out, he's out on the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33035	When, where, I mean, forgive me, but it has not yet been recorded in the House that, on the basis of the non-existent proposal, you submit a bill to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33036	What do you mean, it's not? My colleague's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33037	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33038	Let's formalize that one, and we'll continue to vote on this bill. Bill number 156, I advise the one you put in writing. Let's do the same thing with the previous point relating to the Amendment Law and amendments to the law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Bill No. 156. That is, I am voting on the draft law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? I find that with 34 votes for the bill, four abstentions, 68 against. The bill of law was not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33040	We can move to the next item on the agenda. - Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of a declaration, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Family, Youth, Sport, Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. With these two Committees on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Human Rights, we have questionnaires, I don't know if they discussed this item on the agenda. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Starting with the idea that each individual's needs are equally important, i.e. that these needs should be the basis for national and local planning, all available opportunities must be used in such a way as to ensure equal opportunities for equal participation for each individual. Composing and proposing a Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, the SDP Representatives Club was just led by this idea. According to the latest census in the Republic of Croatia, 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities live. Of which 4% died in car accidents, 10% in the Homeland War, 24% at work, 8% were born with disability. In a wheelchair, there's 7 thousand 201 people moving. The blind in Croatia are about 5 thousand, and the person with mental retardation is about 120 thousand. But the saddest figure is 12 thousand 488 permanently fixed persons tied to the bed. The age structure of people with disabilities is next. By the age of 14, 6 thousand 737 children with developmental difficulties, with a trend of growth, because I have to repeat once again that we still have a European average of more children with cerebral palsy and double. From 15 to 24 years of life are 9,000 692 people. From 25 to 44 years of life, 78 thousand 137 people. From 45 to 64 years of life 185 thousand 428 persons and from 65 years of life to more 148 thousand 170 people, and in a thousand 257 people is unknown cause of disability. Their rights are regulated through 250 laws, but unfortunately many of them are inconclusive and prevent people with disabilities from being fully used. That is why this Declaration highlights the inequality of the rights of persons with disabilities and frequent violations of them. Unlike other people with disabilities, they live in the poorest conditions isolated and excluded from their communities because of barriers to politics, the environment and attitudes. They are undoubtedly the largest and most disciplined group in the country whose human rights are systematically violated. These violations of the rights appear to be due to the lack of adequate housing, health care, education, employment and housing, health care and social inclusion. The rights we have through various laws are mostly not implemented in full or ignored. The declaration stresses the need to fight discrimination against persons with disabilities through various measures to improve and remove misunderstandings for status and problems they face. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 11.11.2004, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for a reason, I quote: "The proposer as the basic cause for the adoption of the declaration lists the unequal rights of persons with disabilities, insufficient participation of persons with disabilities in decision-making processes, insufficient information of persons with disabilities and the general public, frequent violation of the rights of persons with disabilities, the gravity of persons with disabilities on the social care system, an inadequately regulated employment system, inadequately regulated education and professional rehabilitation system." I do not know whether the government is aware, but no measure has been taken to prevent or mitigate the above. Is that what you care about people with disabilities? Yes, the promoter also cites this because we believe that despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the fundamental development of the document needed to create the necessary assumptions for full membership in the European Union, the principles of the development of the Republic of Croatia, which sets the overall development frameworks for the transformation of Croatia into a civil, economically successful and democratic society. This led to a national single policy strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006. However, inter-resorship coordination is required in its implementation, for which the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for persons with disabilities, but there has been a so-called breakdown of the system due to changes in jurisdiction and the name of the authorities of the State Administration, and some have ceased to exist. Although responsible for the implementation, that is to say, not the implementation of the National Strategy as a reason, not the lack of hearing for the problems and needs of people with disabilities. So far, no measures under the National Strategy have been implemented, and only at this session have amendments and additions to the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Act adopted in 2002 been adopted. And the revision of the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities doesn't seem to be in anyone's best minds yet. The Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was yet to be established at the end of last year, and therefore many of the beneficiaries of the Fund were deprived of their respective rights. Once again, we note that no deadlines are followed, regardless of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes in its explanation that the competent authorities of the State Administration have included measures from the National Strategy in their annual plans and programmes. How do you explain that in the first 11 months of 2004 in order to monitor and improve the policy for people with disabilities from the estimated 250,000 kunas was not spent or lip? It was not until the end of the year that money was distributed without any criteria, but it does not mean that the programs were also quality. Can it also be called improving politics for people with disabilities? If that's the concern, please don't bother yourself like that anymore. People with disabilities seek equal opportunities, not mercy, and seek access to social wealth. Action must focus on the rehabilitation of individuals in order to be able to engage in society in order to adapt to the needs of all people. Often barriers in society lead to discrimination and exclusion from the community. Statistical data show an unacceptablely low level of education and the level of employment of people with disabilities. They are treated as invisible citizens because discrimination is based on prejudices about them often caused by the fact that people with disabilities are forgotten and ignored. This results in the creation and strengthening of barriers in the environment and attitudes that prevent them from taking their place in society. Only that policy that respects the human rights of all can succeed. Especially those who are completely dependent on the care of others and their families seek the particular attention of society because they are often the most forgotten of all persons with disabilities. Persons with disabilities must not be objects of mercy and be treated as patients. They must not be marked as people who are dependent and unemployed but also give them the possibility and the provision of active support measures. As a society, we must work to change our attitudes because the law alone is not enough. Without strong involvement of the whole society, including people with disabilities and their organisations in ensuring their rights, legislation remains only an empty framework. Therefore, public education is also important to support legal measures to develop understanding for the needs and rights of persons with disabilities, as well as to combat prejudice and Stigmatisation. It is necessary to promote services for independent life and inclusion of disabled persons. Many people need help in their daily lives. The services that enable this must provide quality services based on the needs of disabled persons, must be integrated into society and must not be caused by segregation. In particular, support is needed for families with disabilities, especially children with developmental difficulties and people who are completely dependent on the care of others and are unable to represent themselves. Such support plays an irreplaceable role in their education and social inclusion. Taking into account this, it is necessary to adopt measures for families to provide them with their support for people with disabilities in the most complete way. I have already mentioned several times that people with disabilities must have access to all health, education, professional and social services and all those opportunities that are available to people without disabilities. This requires changes in current practice to a higher level. The need for accessibility of different groups of people with disabilities should also be taken into account when planning any activity, not when the plans are already over. I don't know why last year in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the funds provided for the accessibility of the facilities were not spent, nor was it spent. I'm also afraid it started with an old practice of late payment of social aid and personal disability. Last month's payoffs came in 27 a month, and for this month's payoffs, I don't think they're even on their way. Specific efforts should be taken to improve the access of persons with disabilities. This is one of the important ways to fight the exclusion of persons with disabilities from the community and to promote their independent life and dignity. I believe the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will be on the trail of the above. The participation of persons with disabilities should not be limited to receiving, information and providing support and decision. In fact, at all levels of decision-making, existing mechanisms for consultation and dialogue should be strengthened to enable disabled persons to make their contributions through their organisations to the planning, monitoring and evaluation of any measures taken. A strong alliance between state institutions and disabled organisations is a fundamental lever for the most effective progress of equal opportunities for participation in the society of persons with disabilities. I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia should review the current legal framework in the field of combating discrimination in education, employment, and access to goods and services. I believe that the introduction of the Ombudsman for disabled persons will encourage an investigation into restrictions and discriminatory barriers limiting the freedom of persons with disabilities in their full participation in society, and take all necessary measures to improve the situation. The work of the service and the system of law should also be reviewed and the laws relating to disability strengthened in order to ensure the same right. We think that, with the state level, the problem of people with disabilities should be addressed locally where citizens are clear problems and where persons with disabilities achieve most of their activities. Local officials should be called on to include the needs of people with disabilities in urban and municipal policies, including education, employment, housing, transport and health and social services. In Croatia we have several good examples of the local community that respects the needs of people with disabilities. For example, City of Zagreb, Koprivnica, Rijeka. Often what you can't see and doesn't exist. I must stress that the media has made a major step in sensitizing the public about the needs of people with disabilities. However, I believe that there should be more information about people with disabilities in order to achieve awareness of human differences. Any patronizing or humiliating approach should be avoided. They should focus on a positive contribution from a society that can give people with disabilities once the barriers are overcome. Unfortunately, we have an education system with regard to persons with disabilities quite poor and disorganized, not available to all and not based on the settings of equality and participation of all. Often, for bizarre reasons, children cannot attend a regular education system, such as several steps at the entrance to school or as is often used very often by banning the employment of professionals in the follow-up. As a society, we should allow for the presence of persons with disabilities in all areas of life, we should simply have our duties and their rights. I consider myself as proposing that in all ways it is necessary to strengthen the rights of persons with disabilities in society and that by accepting this declaration as an expression of the general position of the Croatian Parliament on this issue, we consider it as a confirmation of the fundamental constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia or as an additional step towards building the Republic of Croatia as a democratic and social state and Croatian society as conscious and socially sensitive. I believe that regardless of the government's opinion, each of you MPs and MPs will vote on the acceptance of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and that we will all participate together in the destruction of barriers, not physical, not mental, but political, and that this act of people will be really ahead of us politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33042	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? The Health Committee. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Dear Representative Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33043	Dear Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representative of the Croatian government. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 19th session of the Committee held on 25 November 2004 discussed a declaration on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP since 29 September 2004. The Committee discussed the Declaration as a parent working body according to the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Introducing the reasons why the proposal for a declaration by the applicant's representative pointed out that the Proposer's declaration is an expression of the general position of the company, it confirms that it wants to remain with the views adopted by the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities 2003 to 2006 and that, in line with the material opportunities of society, it will seek to implement all the measures adopted. During the discussion, the Committee members agreed that the Declaration was a valuable act which, however, is only possible in a declarative way to speak about the rights of persons with disabilities and, in fact, once again declares all the rights of persons with disabilities established and prescribed. The main objective of the social policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to improve the position of the most vulnerable part of the population, including persons with disabilities and all socially sensitive groups of citizens. In 1999, the National Programme was adopted to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, and 2003. The National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities 2003 to 2006 and the basis of these two acts and a series of positive legal provisions, thus establishing measures to promote and ensure the rights of persons with disabilities. On the contrary, the proposed Declaration only declares rights without ensuring their implementation and protection, so its adoption would not significantly affect the promotion and improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities. Although, in the opinion of the Committee members, the National Strategy is being implemented slowly or insufficiently, the debate warned that the National Strategy was an act adopted a year ago for the period from 2003 to 2006 with concrete measures, deadlines and implementation holders. Therefore, in the opinion of most Committee members, a longer period of time should be allowed to assess the effectiveness of the proposed measures, achieve overall results and the possible need to redefine certain parts of the National Strategy. Regardless of what has been done so far, it should continue primarily through the proposal of the Law and sublegal acts to ensure a more effective application of the prescribed rights of persons with disabilities in the real life of an individual. In parallel, adequate resources should be provided in the state budget for the implementation of measures adopted by the national strategy. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided, most of the votes, not to accept the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of measures under the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities in 2003 to 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33044	Thank you. Anyone else from the board? Does the government want a representative? State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Nino Žganec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is fully aware of the unfavourable position of one part of persons with disabilities, but that equally to that unfavourable position of one part of persons with disabilities has reacted and reacted throughout a series of legal and implementing rules that are ultimately evident in the concrete implementation of the rights of a whole series of resolutions that persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are achieving. As mentioned here in Croatia and in the Constitutional Principles, and then I repeat, through the implementing regulations, it has declared itself a social state and people with disabilities in this context have a special position. In view of the already agreed and accepted principles of strategy and laws and of this House, we find it unnecessary to adopt such a declaration that has no implementation, no implementing importance, but only one more way of repeating what has already been established, and therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to this House with its own opinion that this declaration should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33046	I thank the Secretary of State. We're going to a club debate. Dear Representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. What to say after the explanations and representatives of the motionor and secretary of state, I will say on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club that the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this proposal. We have supported this proposal through our efforts in the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. We are saddened by the opinion of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health because if the Committee does not advocate persons with disabilities, with social and social status as we have heard, I wonder who it is in Croatia who will advocate. We are not surprised at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that this declaration be rejected. Probably the reason for such a proposal is that the proposal of the Declaration comes from opposition lines, coming from the opposition club. The declaration does not require any funds from the budget. It's no burden on the state budget. The declaration is an expression of political will towards the segment of society. And when we discussed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities the day before yesterday, we said that society is actually measuring how humane it is and how socially sensitive it is exactly how it deals with part of its citizens who have various disabilities and are not even with most citizens. So, if this is a declaration of astounding and that the proposal to reject it is also not allowed to give that statement of political will. And the reasons for the adoption, for not accepting the Declaration that we heard in the explanation of the Government's representatives, are actually superficial, and not convincing. Because this Declaration was created not because of the implementation of the national programme, not because of the implementation of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, it was created because nothing was actually done for that part of the citizens by 2002. And then when the Employment Act was passed in the 12th month 2002, it was not implemented, no implementing acts were adopted, and not only in 2003, we saw in the Law proposal, in the light of the Law proposal that the Proposer himself found that for objective reasons. But the implementing acts were not adopted in 2004 either. What is the reason for the proposal of the Declaration? So probably the proposer was invited to this proposal, when he entered a reading of the state budget for 2004 and when he set out from item to item relating to persons with disabilities and saw that of those items or not invested in that purpose nothing or symbolic amounts, of course raised the question of the political commitment of this state government. And for this reason, by our consideration, they have proposed a declaration by the gentlemen from the parliamentary parties of the Croatian Parliament, please be clear, to see if you sincerely want what you inherited through the national strategy, which you inherited through the Employment Act. We've brought amendments and additions to the law, and it took us a year to determine the jurisdiction that I don't need so much, and it certainly isn't a valid deadline. So now he wants to reconsider our political belief and our political stance on this issue. As for us in the Croatian peasant party, I said, we will support this Declaration, because we think we owe these people at least that much. At least that's it. We also supported the proposal to amend and supplement the Employment Act, and we also supported the National Strategy. We advocate the socialization of these people who are not eager to help Croatia, but are eager to be accepted in an adequate way and given the opportunities that are otherwise enabled in the world and to enable them to realize the rights that we have given them on paper, but in practice these rights are not consummated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33048	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, the esteemed vice president of the house Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-PGS Club will support this Declaration, for the reasons I shall state in this presentation. What is the function of social policy? That's it. What is the function of State intervention in the social situation of individual citizens? It comes in our and in conventional thinking often from the view that the intervention function of the state is aid, that the purpose of intervention of the state is to facilitate the position of people who for any reason are discriminated against or in a difficult position, in this case due to disability. However, as far as states are concerned, the fundamental purpose of State intervention is not to help people who are difficult and it will be difficult for them, but somehow easier for them. The fundamental purpose of State intervention is to ensure the minimum civil equality. Therefore, the intervention of the state in this case in law enforcement and radicalisation of laws that enables equalising the chances of people with disabilities and those who do not have such additional difficulties is intended, in terms of the functioning of the state and the state which is unable to enable its interventions to enable this equalisation of citizens is not a state that has no social sense, but a state that does not function, it is simply a poor functioning state, because its meaning is not mercy. Unfortunately, in relation to people with disabilities, we have been ruled by some sort of general attitude and atmosphere that it is the purpose and work of the state that it shares some mercy, that it is in some way doing these people good. There are organizations in charge of that. Mercy, it has its function in every society. There are organizations involved, and it has for its function not to dramatically change the position of individuals in society, but to make it easier for people who have difficulty in this difficult situation. Such organizations exist, such an organization is Caritas, such organisations are various, charity, organizations that exist, but it is not the task of state intervention. It's the task of such an organization. This idea that has gotten into thinking about the situation of people with disabilities in Croatia at all is that the state's attitude towards them should be some kind of charity and mercy is an additional reason why we at the HSN-PGS Club think that this Declaration is good and that it makes sense. It does not have as the implementing force has been said here in a legal sense. But it has that power and contributes to what we think is an additional and perhaps even prerequisite for moreover, more constructive and smarter laws in this respect, which is to change the way the state thinks about what it means to intervene in a situation of disabled persons, in other words why the state has the obligation to intervene in social status and in the opportunities that are provided to people with disabilities. We need to change the way of opinion from this state-of-the-art charity, which is a cartoon state. It's not the welfare of the state. This is a prerequisite that the state can function, that its institutions can function because if there is no such fundamental equality and preconditions for fundamental civil equality that ensures for all the possibility of both working and social and participation policies then the state cannot function. Then the state is dysfunctional. Therefore, this declaration, in our opinion in the first place, is intended to change the way the state thinks about what it is doing in the field of helping intervene in the situation of persons with disabilities. The State in that field shall have the same obligation as it has to any other group of citizens who, for any other reason, are either discriminated or in a more unfavourable position, or need additional intervention to equalise themselves with all others who, as citizens, operate and exist. Therefore, the purpose of this declaration is not only to affect future legislation but also to affect the change in attitude, change in basic philosophy, change in the way of thinking about the intervention and additional assistance of persons with disabilities from employment to movement, to all other rights which have that it is a task and obligation of the state, not its goodness or do not give God mercy. The merciful states as is known in history have always been the most dangerous. Now, what does this declaration have to do with the implementation or legislation? Even according to the findings of the European Union and our own experience, Croatia's main problem in adapting our legislation to European legislation is not amending the law. We're here as far as we can make it than law enforcement. So the laws that we change in this House are then really the laws of this country that are being implemented on the ground. Therefore, we are the weakest and, for example, one of the differences in the negotiations that Croatia will have with the European Union and the negotiations that had ten countries that have just entered the European Union is that these countries have seen a change of legislation. The implementation of legislation will also be seen with us, therefore, in application. This declaration contributes to the possible application of some of the laws that already exist. For example, there is an obligation for state-owned companies to hire people with disabilities, there is an incentive for companies in general to hire people with disabilities. Is that so? It's not. Today's example, a construction engineer tried to get a high level of deafness in Croatian roads, you can't even see how he was capable of communicating and speaking articulated he wasn't able to get a job with the different additional comments that accompanied it. A state-owned company, is there one person with disabilities on every 50 employees? Obviously and certainly not. Therefore, when and when there are laws, it is obvious that these laws are not implemented and do not apply as they have been adopted here, and as we see in the Club of the PGS, the purpose of this declaration is to contribute precisely to this, on the one hand, the awareness of the state of charity in a state which is obliged to ensure all civil equality. And on the other hand, it contributes to public awareness that these laws exist and not only exist but that these laws must be implemented because if they are not implemented when it comes to persons with disabilities, it is clear that they will not be implemented in many other situations that will break everyone’s head in this society sooner or later. Therefore, we believe that this declaration has and is heading towards these two important objectives, changing the state's attitude towards persons with disabilities and supporting the application of laws that are not applicable today. For this reason, the HNS and PGS will support this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33050	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a respected representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The value of each society is measured by its relationship to particularly sensitive groups such as children, older and powerless and certainly disabled, and I think we all agree on that. It was stated on several occasions yesterday when we discussed the law and today that such persons in society have about 10% and Croatia fits into one average. That such persons by the number of disability causes is the largest number caused by disease, then those who are disabled are working, and I think that these two groups are certainly well-prevented. We can prevent people with disabilities who are caused by a car accident. But special attention should be paid to persons who have a disability since birth and who are about 25 thousand, then persons who are permanently immobilized and who are about 12 thousand and those who are mobile in a wheelchair of about 7,000 and 200. On 14 October 1999, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Programme to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. In the last term, the government also assessed the need to adopt a National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006 as an upgrade previously adopted in the national programme. The National Strategy identified the state of health, education, sport, recreation, professional rehabilitation, employment, pension insurance, housing assistance, mobility, accessibility of public areas and housing. The implementation of this national strategy is accompanied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Persons with Disabilities and the competent authorities of the State Administration have included measures from a national strategy in their annual plans and programmes. Then, the government points out in its statement that the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Human Rights is in the framework of its work of preparing and a national strategy to combat all forms of discrimination which will also establish specific measures to promote and protect persons with disabilities. The issue of professional rehabilitation and employment is particularly important, which we discussed yesterday and the amendments to the laws that we hope to adopt and all for the purpose of enabling more effective application of the declared and prescribed rights of persons with disabilities in real life. The minister also announced the establishment of a lawyer for people with disabilities. We see that we have listed a large number of measures that have already been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has come to the proposed declaration very seriously and responsibly and the text of the declaration has been delivered we can tell all the ministries. Ministry of Defence, environment, sea, economy, science, culture and finance. It shows how much it holds to rights but also the right of disabled people. And that also says how interdisciplinary it is. The proposed Declaration was also discussed by the Section for Social Activities and Human Rights. And at its meeting on 9 November 2004, he proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed declaration. The existing National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 is an operational national document with specific concrete measures and implementing bodies. The rights of persons with disabilities are set out in a series of international agreements adopted by the Republic of Croatia. The rights are also incorporated into the constitutional, constitutional category and are implemented in a series of laws. I'd like to look back on this, too, on this proposed declaration. In the proposed Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, only rights are declared without ensuring their effective implementation and protection and its adoption would not significantly affect the promotion, improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities. If we look at the Declaration itself and only its first article I would say that it is very clumsyly written and says that "a person with disabilities is any person who is due to physical or mental impairment, it is okay, temporarily or permanently says the last, present or future, innate or acquired," and then says "deviation from the physical, physical structure" and I think that the formulations themselves are unusual. Then, in many articles, I say, I only state that certain measures: removing obstacles in the environment, that persons with disabilities have the right to adequate social protection, then having equal participation in cultural, scientific, scientific educational and political and other kinds of life, worthy of existence and all other things that are really nothing questionable, but I think that all of these, but listed, all of these are already listed, are really legally established. I agree with my colleague earlier that, possibly something might put our emphasis on, on our principled definition, and I don't think our principled commitment is questionable at all. People with disabilities and their families I think they need help, help and understanding in society in order to overcome the barriers, gain control of their lives, and be able to fit into life. As a society, I think we've made a significant shift. I can't agree that nothing happened in that area. I think that the public well, we see that we have a good legal basis and that we have already built all this into different laws, but that as a society that we have moved significantly there and that we are sensitive, that we understand this population and that, I am for that, I think with this shift we should be satisfied, and normally we should strive far more. After all, I can conclude that the adoption of the proposed Declaration is unnecessary and incomplete. Since the applicable regulations guarantee the rights of persons with disabilities and their implementation should be implemented in accordance with the National Strategy. The Croatian Democratic Community Club strongly supports the proposed National Strategy as well as its effective implementation as well as the effective exercise of all other rights of those persons in order to improve their position and to be able to fit into society. That is why I can say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support a declaration this engaged and proposed. It's a pre-arranged and proposed declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33052	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to say what the declaration means. That is, a declaration is an indication of a country of something. So through the declaration, we're looking at the rights of persons with disabilities. So about human rights people with disabilities. Just like this, I think this will be a precedent in the Croatian Parliament if the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is not accepted. The only proposal for a Croatian Party of Rights declaration in 2004 seems to me at the 5th session of the Parliament is not accepted, about freedom of speech and expression in the Croatian Parliament. It seems to me that only this Declaration and that this one will not be accepted. My colleague Lelic, I am not satisfied with the social progress of people with disabilities. She's been lost all last year. Here's a little bit, as far as the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities is concerned, I'll just list a few measures of 66. This is how: The Ministry of Labour and Social Care will develop amendments to the rules on the right to leave until the 7th year of the child's life and the right to work with half the working time, full-time due to child care with severe development disorders, regarding the expansion of the circle of the users of craftsmen and persons who carry out their own professional activity. It's not made. The National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth in cooperation with the competent authorities of the State Administration, Associations of Persons with Disabilities and Associations acting on behalf of Persons with Disabilities will develop a professional basis for the establishment of a personal assistant institute by the end of 2003. I note that the task force was founded in 2003, that the task force had created a complete situation on the ground. However, apart from the working group, nothing has been done for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability and is proposing appropriate legal solutions. I'm just going to skip a little bit like this and you'll see that no measure has been taken. The Ministry of Education and Sport in cooperation with the Office of State Administration in the County responsible for Education and Sports, Associations of Persons with Disabilities and Associations acting in favour of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Labour and Social Care and the Croatian Employment Service will conduct research-analytical studies by the end of 2004 in order to determine the situation in relation to the failure to complete secondary education, school leaving, failure to graduate or final exam and formulating professional bases as a starting point for planning and preparing future activities. It's not made. And so on and so forth. I could read all 66 measures, and none of them were implemented. Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not find it appropriate for the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities to be revised, to make a final list of ministries, ministries responsible for what. Because the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth has been shut down. Persons with disabilities have gone to the authority of three ministries, and neither have they, nor have any of these been charged with anything. That is why I can be satisfied and not the other persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, as far as the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is concerned. Now I'm going to start with my own example. I am here among you, now discriminated against. For what reason? All before, who speak on behalf of the promoter or in the name of the club stand behind that pay phone. I'm sitting in my seat. Where's my right? Where's the pay phone adapted to me? But it's very, very little compared to much bigger things and much bigger things that we see as discrimination every day, so starting from the moment we leave our own house, we can't get into schools or kindergartens or our jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33054	Thank you, Madam Representatives. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33055	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to the applicant's presentation and the discussions of those who referred to the proposal, I had an association. I thought of the great Ray Charles, probably all of you know who he's talking about. It's about a great musician, jazz musician, who's completely blind, who's made an impressive career. There were other great physicists and even athletes among the disabled. This association has actually led me to add two other key words to what an active believer eats or not that we all inherit from our Christian history and the tradition of mercy that we add to two other key words that are modern and I would say post-industrial society has to bind to people with disabilities. The second word is solidarity, it is a category belonging to a social state such as the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution is which is close to mercy but is different from it. It assumes the duty of a civilised and democratic society to help those who are disabled in one way or another to the maximum extent of their opportunities. And just the example of these most successful ones like Ray Charles brings up the third key seems to me today, which is integration. Integration because disabled people in modern society are not his burden but are his equal members who can make equal contributions to this society or to another society as valuable as any of us. It is a society's duty to recognise the possibility of such a contribution and to enable it. That's why I have to say that I'm a little sorry that it's obvious that he's going to win back that principle that may have gone unnecessarily into that House, not a single voice to the enemy that we would say, because it's really hard for me to accept that this declaration is not a framework that we're all ready to sign. But it's a matter of choice and that's why there are maybe other reasons that I can personally hardly recognize. It is true that this declaration has no implementing instruments, so it can't and can't have them, it's a declaration that is a political indication, one political will it is an expectation addressed to the government that has its constitutional powers to ensure what you are of course in that programme that we mentioned. But who we see from our proposal's personal experience is not fully identified. And it's a shame that I think this is a question of supporting disabled people and implementing these three key words, mercy, solidarity and integration today is increasingly solidarity and more integration, and the less mercies my court is overcoming any party criteria and party frameworks and that this is something we should discuss almost I would say outside of politics. Anyway, it's for me and for the club, of course, he's also the promoter of this declaration one list of reminders of what we all get together. Because the declaration is made for a longer period of time. All of us together have been in power or not in power, and we haven't made it all the way for our fellow citizens with disability problems. Not only did we not help them, but we did not help them, for those values that they have in one specific way have not been integrated into our society. Of course, I don't longer these problems that Mrs. Škulić has brought out, and I can't explain so well and so well how she did it to us. I think she did it in a great way that once again shows that people with disabilities can be fully equal with us in both cultural and sports and scientific and political ways as you can see. And that's why I'm making another call to think about whether we can all raise our hands together for one of these looks like good material to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33056	Thank you very much. We have one correction to Mrs. Lucia Chickesh's incorrect quote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33057	Dear Vice President, dear colleague, you know well that I really appreciate every word you say because I think you're the man who said what he really has to say and what's justified when he comes out. I don't agree with you saying it didn't work out for integration. I'd say otherwise, if it hadn't worked out enough, but that's why there's always a reason. However, this declaration certainly will not lead to persons with disabilities being more integrated into our society. It depends on who enforces the law. I didn't need a declaration about disabled people to integrate people with developmental difficulties into society and to have society give them the annual award for enriching the social cultural life environment in which they work. It means I'm sure the declaration would make it sound. But the law is stronger than the declaration and no one is stopping us from working. We can bring the declaration, but I don't think, I say 30 years' work.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33058	Thank you very much. You won't answer? Oh, yeah, it's a correction. And the correction is so, it was more of a replica. Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. Excuse me, HSP Club and Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government. This is so brief and clear, the HSP Club will we support this declaration or it does not depend on the Proposer whether it will change a few controversial words. And those words give this declaration an interpretation that is unacceptable for the HSP club. And these are in point 2. A person with disabilities has the right to all rights and freedoms arising from the Constitution and the declaration law. Mostly at the end as well as the time and cause of disability. So we disagree with the words cause of disability. And point 20 of the first sentence, the Republic of Croatia will equate the evaluation of disability independently of the cause or personal status of persons with disabilities. If this does not change, this means that the small door is once again trying to push through a proposal that would equate the rights of persons with disabilities from World War II of the Croatian Wartime War invalids of the Homeland War, including persons who have become disabled as members of troops who have committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. In our opinion, their material rights can in no way be equal or their cause of disability. Because they were creating a Croatian state, and others were tearing it down. And the HSP Club won't be able to support that declaration unless this changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33060	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DC Club HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33061	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I doubted whether or not to answer the phone, but my colleague Škulic encouraged me. This way, my colleague Škulić does not feel anything favored better than you do, what you are now I can be after 5 minutes. So I live with it, and I believe that most people lived the same way. For me as a citizen, every disabled citizen personally refers to people who are thus life-threatening as something that is their destiny, and what I can do to fix it. So that's the thing of every man and how many people are going to be integrated into society that depends on me thinking of each of us personally how much he wants to use what we're doing here. I'm going to ask myself why this declaration is now. Personally, I don't think there's a man in Croatia who won't support these things here, which are written here. However, the question arises why this declaration as a political act. We have the Constitution, we have the law, we have the strategy, we have declared all these rights both in the Constitution and in the law and in the national strategy, and now we encourage it once again. I don't know if disabled people and their rights in Croatia will be easier and better achieved if we have this declaration. I think that in all things, that our fundamental problem, the problem at almost all levels of our lives is the problem of implementing what we agree, what we write down, what we actually declare. I have the impression that someone here in this way wants to or in some way calm their conscience, it's not bad if we want to calm our conscience, because it is, and it's the same human. However, he may or may want to provoke someone else now, or give the disabled themselves hope that after this declaration, it will suddenly be better. I'm saying, here's where I publicly raised my doubts about all this. A colleague, Tomasic, also pointed out a problem here, and I would also disagree with this point 20. It really needs to be more precise because if you are equating those who, no matter how disabled they are, whether he was involved somewhere in some enemy units, and now because we want such a person as a member of Croatian society to integrate and even him with those who really had real reasons and gave himself to the country, he died or sacrificed part of his body because of the general social values, I don't think we can put him in the same category. I remember in my village there were people after II. World War I, in order to get to the disability, they took a cubura and they hit themselves in the finger and then they got a pension with two witnesses. It is an insult to all those other people who have sacrificed themselves for some of the higher goals. So I think we should specify this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33062	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate, an individual debate. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to talk about why you should accept this declaration. I thought I would, but I won't, because I'm ashamed. And I'm ashamed to have to convince anyone in this whiskey house that this declaration should be voted on. But the government won't, so they won't. And why won't they? That's what he says in his opinion. He says he won't because this document is just a declaration of all rights. Well, of course it's just a declaration, which is why it's called a declaration, because it's just a declaration. If we wanted to legislate, then we'd propose a law. We're going to declare our position towards the disabled, so we're proposing a declaration. And what's the declaration? That's what it says in paragraph 120, in Article 120 of our Rules of Procedure. The declaration expresses the general position of the Parliament on issues of internal or external policy and other relevant matters for the state. We brought in the Declarations in this House, we brought them unanimously. We also brought a declaration of the Homeland War. We unanimously expressed our view that this war was just, that it was defensive. What are we in it, did we make it concrete? We didn't. We've expressed one political position. That's what the declarations are for. The government says it will not accept the declaration because it implements a national single policy strategy for people with disabilities. So you're having a good time. So who forbids you to spend it? Will your acceptance of this declaration prevent you from implementing the program? What does that have to do with each other? One is a general act, the other is an implementing act. It's weird now how you guys do it. It has many objections, but it certainly is no reason to refuse to accept this declaration. What's the matter with you in that declaration? I can't find one single sentence that might bother you. In point 5, direct, indirect, intentional, unintentional, covert, occasional or systematic discrimination against persons with disabilities is prohibited. A person with disabilities has the right to adequate social protection. A person with disabilities has the right to have equal participation in cultural, scientific, educational, political and other aspects of social life. A person with disabilities has the right to a worthy existence. Mrs Pusic here spoke of changing the philosophy of relations with people with disabilities. She said that this relationship must not be a mercy but a commitment of the state. And how he sees this declaration as another support for the application of a law that does not apply. That's right. I see a third, more important reason to bring this declaration, to declare in it, to declare and not to be ashamed of that expression. To declare one message to people with disabilities, to declare our position and tell them you're not a burden, you're not a surplus, you're a part of us. And now you refuse to accept it as unnecessary. There's nothing to take away, there's nothing to add, that's just to say thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33064	Thank you very much. He's got Damir Kai's rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33065	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33066	He's giving up. Then Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33067	Mr. Vice President, it is incorrect to say that the Declaration of Homeland War was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33068	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33069	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Oh, I'd just like to take a quick look at how the predecessors used to say so. I really don't even tend to look at someone through a party or look at them in any other way than how much a man knows, how much he can and how much he can get in his workplace. So I have a long enough period behind me, 30 years of work I've worked in one system, I've worked for the mandate of one government, I've worked for the mandate of another government, but the last 14 years of the narrow area of my activity is this particular population. And trust me, if anyone supported me, and no one would convince me of any party or party belongings that I'm sure this will change anything and improve this population that I've been working on and which is my narrow interest for the last 14 years. If we do not have this declaration which is de facto prescribed, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will be brought to the General Assembly of the United Nations in Resolution 3447, and this report from 1975 obliges the State of Croatia and we have nothing to declare if we have something that binds us and we have to abide by it. By the way, we need to keep an eye on the executioner. As Mrs Pusic said, as the charity dealer said, and that is why I think that the state is not a charity dealer, but that through the laws it must regulate the rights of this most sensitive population through the laws. I will just say from the declaration I say about the rights of disabled persons from the United Nations Assembly of 1975, which binds the state of Croatia which you have also installed in this declaration, which says: "The invalids have the right to live together with their families or guardians and the right to participate in social creative and recreational activities. Invalidity shall not be subject to a discriminatory procedure with regard to the place of residence unless it requires its condition and, if applicable, to its benefit. If staying disabled in a specialised facility is necessary, then the environment and living conditions must be similar to those that exist for people his age in a normal life." And now you see something that is binding. And Communism has been binding and HDZ has committed and the coalition government has committed, so now you can only see how many cornerstones and institutions have been placed for the past four years, and by declaration we are obliged not to do so but to organise the lives of people with these needs differently. If the declaration was stronger than the law, I'd give her a hearty support because I'm working on it, then my job with my protégés would be easier. Since this is what you say yourself, Mr. Stazic, it doesn't cost you anything. That's how you disrespect what you bring. You can't say it doesn't cost you anything, so just bring it to me and thank you for that. No, we can't do that. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33070	Thank you very much. We have one correction and one replica. Mr Ivo Josipovic was first corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33071	... the declarations do not fall under international law of general binding acts. [[Specially enabled.]] The Republic of Croatia is bound by international agreements signed and ratified by the Constitution in the Assembly, and the declarations of which are very much, are important and are significant but are not binding international legal instruments. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33072	Thank you. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33073	First I never said bring it in because it doesn't cost you anything at all. I wasn't talking about bone. You've completely insinuated that, because even when I think about people with disabilities, I don't think about the cost category. And this declaration we're offering here doesn't talk about bone. She's supposed to be our political attitude. The fact that this position agrees with the United Nations declaration is not a reason or should not be a reason for not accepting this declaration. This should be an additional argument to accept such a declaration. Be careful if someone here now objected that you are now offering one declaration, but it is completely contrary to the United Nations declaration then it would be an argument to refuse. This argument that you have made that he agrees with the United Nations declaration is to forgive me completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33074	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Lucia Chikesh's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33075	Sir, the paper trail is one thing, the work is another. So the declaration as a declaration will not improve, we have laws regulated everything and said, once again, I repeat. None of us prevents us from respecting and building institutions and all of us are approaching to break the barriers that in this one I'm sorry not to pull out, all of the architectural barriers because this is the Construction Act, the Construction Act regulated it to be so. To involve disabled people and to involve disabled people in the social life of a community, no one is stopping us. It's who works and how it works, and I said I worked until I was 90 and 2000 and from 2000 to 2004. I won't be mean because it's not my way of doing it. I'm trying to be constructive, not accuse someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33076	Thank you very much. Proposer Mrs. Vesna Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll just take a minute. In this House, many declarations have been made, some unanimity are not, and one of them is the Declaration of the Homeland War. Although we know there was a law on Croatian defenders. I'd like to know if anything has supported that declaration in the exercise of the right of a participant in the Homeland War. Also a few days ago, a Declaration on the European Union was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to know why we brought it, why we will vote for it and whether it will improve our relations and our status in negotiations with the European Union. Otherwise, there is one book called "Standard Rules on Equality for Persons with Disabilities" brought by the United Nations. The first rule is called the development of consciousness. If this declaration brings us at least a little bit of our consciousness to people with disabilities, we've done a lot. Otherwise, for a colleague of the HSP, we cannot agree to this condition, because that is precisely the equalization of the rights of all persons with disabilities. I'm talking about rights, I'm not talking about material, I'm talking about other rights and human rights. So there is also another document called the Madrid Declaration. The Madrid Declaration was adopted in 2002. On behalf of 50 million Europeans, or persons with disabilities. Did she change her attitude toward a disabled person? Yes, it is. In 2003, a year of people with disabilities in Europe was declared. So the relationship changed. In that year, in 2002, standard rules were adopted at the 10th month, i.e. the National Strategy for Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. After that, the Employment and Rehabilitation Act was passed. After that, the Employment and Rehabilitation Fund was established. So it is. One declaration may encourage the government of a country to act positively. If we encourage our government to act positively, to implement the National Strategy, to implement at least one measure, we have done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33078	Thank you. Mr Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33079	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After all I've heard tonight, I can't say anything but my people, is that possible? We all support the provisions of the Croatian Constitution, we also support the National Strategy for a Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities, we also support the Rehabilitation and Employment Act. We will also vote on a new version of this Law, but, behold, miracles, we cannot support a single declaration that speaks of similar or same questions. Very unusual, I must say. And let me trust my colleague Škulić more than the opinion of the Croatian Government because she feels best in her skin, as well as those who are in her position as this strategy and the Law apply. We've heard today that our biggest problem is usually to us, not to enforce the law. This is a particularly sensitive category, and this declaration wanted to draw attention to the fact that the provisions of the Strategy and the Law were not implemented. Because if these declarations were carried out, they wouldn't even be on the agenda. It's so obvious. And as for goodwill, for 2005, the Agency for Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has 17 million 147 thousand and 728 kuna, 3 million kunas less than before. And it is not clear to me now how much more can be done with less money, how the National Strategy, which has 66 measures for which implementation plans have been made, can be realised, but are not realised. You can have the best law, a fantastic strategy if you don't realize it, in practice nothing will change, nothing will improve. All problems will remain present. I must say that I agree with the presentation of my colleague Vesna Pusic, and my colleagues, and that I no longer think of this group as a burden of this society that needs mercy for the reason I had the opportunity to meet a group of mentally and physically disabled people in County, where I come from. And I have to say that these people helped me become aware of what most of us take for granted, to realize how happy I am because I can move without anyone else's help at all, what I can do for myself, what I can do for my children and people around me. Some things that are self - understanding to us are a terrible problem. Of the fact that I can't, as it's said, enter many institutions, that I can't get on buses, let's just say, use public traffic as easily as we do, that I can't communicate. And in that group, in fact, talking to my parents was the most fascinating thing that fascinated me was that these kids of theirs who come out of the house twice a week for two, three hours, socializing and having a workshop, became much brighter, more cheerful, more distracted. Not because something big and financially significant happened, but because their children, including adults, had a chance to get out of the house. To stop being, as counterpart Škulic says, invisible. They organized and flew, two years in a row at sea. So much true human joy and gladness between us, conditionally speaking, healthy, my colleagues, unfortunately I haven't seen in a long time. And that's enough reason for all of us to do everything possible to accept these people. Because they're a fact, like it or not. As we've heard, you can become disabled by birth, by illness, by accident in traffic, at the end of the day by suffering and by war. And when that happens, you have all the same human needs that we have, but also special ways in which you can address them conditioned by your handicap. It's up to us to raise awareness of this problem, not to put it under the carpet. And every honor and thank you to those who have already done a lot of personal hard work in their midst to integrate these people into society, but also the fact that we are not a highly developed society that has completely solved this problem. And we don't have to be ashamed of it, let's face it, we've taken some steps, but the road ahead is still very long. Let's go, let's not give up, let's not share on this issue that really has no reason to share us partyically. Which is actually only human and human, and that's how we should treat it. I truly regret that the Croatian government has put its representatives in a position to refuse this declaration, although I am sure if we spoke informally, that no one can have anything against any letter, point or mark in this declaration. And if we already agree on the declarative level then we support it with evidence. The fact is, the declaration is a declaration. Expressing political attitude, no implementation plans, specifically solves nothing. But I think it's very important that this House sends a message to those people who are disabled, but more to those who are healthy than they really need, and for all of us to accept them well, integrate them and provide an opportunity for a normal life. Some say that the loss of work by the amount of stress caused by the loss of a loved one or divorce. I'd dare say the other way around. On the day you get a job, which is very difficult for the healthy in this country today, that you certainly feel much better that you are more valuable and that you can give this society something, not just take it. I think we should work in this direction so that these people are not treated as a burden to this society but as one possibility of realising a person who today thanks to the progress of technology and technology is quite possible. These people need to be accepted, given a chance. If we don't, gentlemen, I'll ask myself whose handicap is bigger? Theirs or ours? Let's not let any political, party reasons actually get us into a position to fight against these categories of people, it really wouldn't be right, it's unfair, so I dare say even rudely, it's our responsibility and let's act accordingly because no matter how healthy we are today, unfortunately, any of us can be in the position of a disabled person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33080	Thank you very much. We have two corrections, Mrs. Lucia Chickesh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33081	I don't think we deserve something like this if we don't agree with something to say we're not human, that we're even rude. I don't think words like that can be used here and especially to fight over a population like this. Ma'am, if we were gonna put it on the scale, then we'd see where the scale would go. But when you say the government needs to be encouraged, I think there are people who work, so they move one piece of paper and put all the bells on, and there are people who work alone. I've been working three and a half days now with a group of experts on this issue, and I didn't come here to get the government encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33082	It was half-memic. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33083	Mr. President, I'm giving up because it's already answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33084	Thank you very much. As the last in Mrs Ivanka Roksandić's discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I don't know if I think just at the end of this debate, I'm sorry that another debate is only going on in that kind of politicalization of everything but an important topic. Respecting the good intentions of my colleague Škulić to point to this Declaration once again the problems of the disabled, I will tell you one sentence at the very beginning. When I spoke to one disabled person, and I met many because I have such a profession and I work with disabled associations, she said to me this way: "What will change another document that does not bind anyone." It was a question of a disabled person. Indeed, what will change this document if we do not support it with concrete actions. I think we have a National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006. Since the beginning of adoption in this High House of this strategy, it has been certain that there has been a shift in the insurance of the living conditions of disabled people, that many obstacles have been lifted, not all of them, because this National Strategy I would say time-consuming, it has its course of duration, to say in simple words until 2006 I will only tell you in a few sentences about a city you have not mentioned and from which I come Sisak who removed many obstacles last year, traffic signs adapted that long ago includes disabled children, I will not tell children with special needs because they are quite normal people, quite normal beings they have no special needs you have said themselves, they only have the opportunity to help them achieve their, let's call it a normal or normal way of life. We can also not say that nothing happened from this National Strategy. Last year I have knowledge spent only on the free-sighted children about 500 thousand kunas to adapt textbooks through the association of the Association of Blind Croatians to adapt to primary school textbooks to children, undersighted children. Also printed are a number of parents manuals, to help parents help parents with special needs, a whole series of associations are involved in the implementation of this program from psychosocial assistance to children and young people to education, informing parents consults are open to parents with children, with difficulties, there is a real shift in this. Let us wait for what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will say about persons with disabilities who monitor and coordinate this work and wait for a report on the achievement of this programme. I hope that by 2006 we will be able to say exactly what happened two more years at the beginning of 2005. I don't think anything will be done, maybe not, and maybe a lot of things will move. Here we discussed yesterday one amendment to the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, which is another shift in the legislation in the protection of people with disabilities, and I think that we will all get involved in the implementation of this, it is important that what counterpart Chikesh said is involved in the implementation of this and show what to do and how to take a step ourselves to solve this problem. I don't think we should be so hard on the Ministry or all those institutions that deal with the right people with disabilities and say that nothing is done when the shifts are recorded. Normally it's not possible to solve everything overnight but trust this declaration, as one of your colleagues once again said, which will change another document that doesn't bind anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33086	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33087	You're wondering what's going to happen to the disabled if we accept this Declaration. Mrs. Škulic has already answered that question comprehensively. What the Declarations are changing, they change people's consciousness above all, that's why they're being brought in. But let's turn this over to your question, and what will happen to the disabled if we don't accept this Declaration. What will they say when tomorrow in tomorrow's journal after we vote on all the points we've done hear the Parliament refuses most of the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Which will then be good for the disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33088	Mrs. Rocksandic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, just one sentence from my colleague Stazic. I think the Declarations change the world rather than the works, but we catch up with all the acts we enforce laws and we'll change consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33090	Thank you very much. Before the lady concludes, I'd like to say one thing to myself. When pleading for consensus and asking for consensus when pronouncing people for consensus can do so so that the consensus does not exist. And now, please, Mrs. Vesna Škulić, in the name of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all those who participated in this debate. Otherwise, the right to a few small lessons for children with special needs is said to be children with developmental disabilities, for disabled people are told that it is only a few of my digressions that can be learned from the Declaration, so developing consciousness, developing consciousness. If the Declarations never helped anyone at all, I don't understand why they were brought in, starting with the United Nations and beyond. As for the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Committee for Persons with Disabilities, it held 3 sessions last year, spent 800 kuna or something for its work. So it didn't do anything. Given that I am the president of the Working Group on Human Rights Issues of Persons with Disabilities at the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, we asked to be informed about the implementation of the National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2006. And we got the report that says it. Since operations in the responsibilities of the former Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare in one part have become the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, and in the other part the entrepreneurship and the responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship have raised the issue of competence to adopt implementing rules as well as the exercise of supervision over the application of the law. The following legislation for the application of the law is necessary to comply with the new structure of the ministries, but with the amendments and additions prepared, it had to stop a little while, as the work on amendments and amendments to the tax rules and regulations governing the contributions to compulsory insurance with which the law also needs to be harmonised. It's about the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment. That was in November 18th, 2004. A year after the government started working. At this session of the government, there was just talk of this law. And finally, I'm sorry this Declaration won't be voted on, because there's no political will for it. I think this will be precedentd at all in European, human rights-promoting countries and at all in European parliaments, if not in world parliaments. Because Mr. Secretary of State doesn't hold a water explanation for either yours or the government. In the end, I must conclude that we really need people for daily political use and that politics and politics are very, very much ahead of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33092	Thank you very much. We're done with this agenda point, thank you. We're interrupting the session for today. And tomorrow we will continue with the Proposal for a Resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia at 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33093	Sixth, Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by the applicant after the deadline and we will comply with Article 166. The Rules of Procedures vote on them. Please engage. To vote. Score. 106 for, five abstentions and one against. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. Or you can explain whether there's a need to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33094	Both amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-02-24-0.u33095	I am voting on Amendment 1 which the applicant does not accept. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. 106 for, seven abstentions and one against. Amendment 1 accepted, becomes an integral part of the proposal for a declaration. Amendment 2. Please engage. We can vote. Score. 106 for, 5 abstentions, the amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal for a declaration. I am voting the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the Declaration of Rights of Persons with Disabilities was passed with 113 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of measures in the national single policy strategy for persons with disabilities. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. The proposed conclusion was adopted with 113 votes for and 2 abstentions.
