ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34735	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The implementation of the judicial reform aims to improve the fundamental assumptions of the development of free market relations and successful economic business. And further investment in the Croatian economy. These assumptions are among other party disciplines in carrying out contractual or legal obligations, as prevention of enforcement measures, better protection of creditors, acceleration and simplification of the insurance and enforcement process, and reduction of investment risks mainly of credit and increasing the overall credit capacity of legal entities in the country. This proposal to amend and supplement the executive law that is now in front of you, and since the last novels of the executive law were in 2003 and 2004, it may seem that it came too quickly. However, the shortcomings, the current shortcomings, had to be addressed urgently. Which practice she quickly pointed out. And what's the point of this amendment and the addition of the executive law. The first objective is to simplify and simplify and speed up the executive process. The second objective of amending and supplementing this executive law is part of our plan to deal with a reduction in the number of pending executive cases this year. Last year, we took measures to reduce the number of civil and land-based books. Statistics show that our measures have won success and that the number of unsolved civil cases has decreased by 7%. And the number of unsolved land books for more than 10%. In this year, there was a turn for reducing the number of pending executive cases, which account for about 30% of the total outstanding cases in the country. And here are the most important changes to this draft law. The first delay of the application is again precise and clearly arranged, with clearly defined conditions for the delay which they are also subject to. For a long time, the fiduciary transfer of ownership was an instrument used by banks as a means of debt insurance, but the latest changes to the 2003 executive law caused a considerable number of difficulties in its implementation, so they practically began to leave. And Recognizing the importance of fiduciary insurance for the development of the credit market with this proposal to amend and supplement the executive law, we propose to improve this legal institute precisely in order to facilitate its use. And so all the benefits he offers would be used as simply an effective and cheap means of debt insurance. In addition to improvements related to removing difficulties for its implementation, fiduciary insurance will also be improved by introducing a new possibility that this financial leverage can be used as insurance and multiple times. Which so far has not been possible. Problems encountered when data were received relevant for the identification of debtors' assets, such as employment data, ownership of motor vehicles and bank accounts. They were largely caused by the closure of records of these data. And since the effectiveness of the exercise often depends on the possibility of identifying such data, our proposal is to introduce a legal obligation for the state authorities and public institutions keeping those records to provide information relevant to the executive procedure. Another newspaper. The sale of movements seized in the executive procedure was often not carried out in the quick and effective way that the credentials would have wanted, since things remained in the possession of the perpetrators. And that's why we suggested that the seized movables be immediately exempt from the possessions of the perpetrators. We also suggested introducing commission stores, selling through commission stores where seized goods would be exposed to potential customers, thereby significantly simplifying the whole process of debt suffering and making it an effective exercise on movables. Furthermore, property eyewitnesses as well as movables whose value is more than 50 thousand kunas will be established, which are sold in the executive procedure. And that information will be available to every citizen at any moment. Based on this eyewitness of all real estate and movables sold in the executive process, potential customers will easily obtain data on such sales, as the eyewitness will also be available via the Internet. In particular, it will simplify and facilitate the performance of motor vehicles. It will significantly simplify the implementation of the funds in bank accounts, where all the accounts of the perpetrators will be seized, where the work will be carried out through the so-called “execution”. The main account and the prescribed option is so-called. previous blockades of all accounts of the perpetrators. As a newspaper, a value paper application was introduced to the central deposit agency's accounts. In relation to legal medicinal products, the changes relate to the fact that the complaint will be allowed again in principle. That the duality of legal medicines, i.e. The complaint is the only legal remedy, and the objection can only be made to a solution on the basis of a credible document. So the appeal is of an irremonstivative nature again. Public notes shall be introduced into the executive procedure. They will determine the performance on the basis of credible documents. And that means in practice a great discharge of courts and allowing judges to deal with really real issues. But also the objection against a solution to the performance on the basis of a credible document will be settled by courts. The executives shall make a significant part of the total number of executives on the basis of a authentic document. For example. in the Zagreb Commercial Court in 2003, about 80% of the completed executive cases were related to those based on credible documents. All these measures, therefore, as the ultimate objective, will result in greater discipline of citizens, i.e. debtors in fulfilling their obligations and the possibility of achieving the most important goal of the enforcement process being, in fact, an exception, that ultimate possibility. The relationship between the executives and the executives in the Implementing Law is thought to be balanced, so that the effectiveness of the executive procedure is indeed achieved but not to the detriment of fundamental freedoms and the rights of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34736	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34737	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. At the 23rd session held on 22 March 2005, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 3 February 2005. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the current application of the Implementing Law has shown that judicial proceedings of enforcement and insurance take too long, that courts are overloaded by the number of executive cases, that parties often abuse their procedural powers, and that some procedural solutions are formalistic. The 2003 Act amending and supplementing the 2003 Implementing Law failed to resolve or mitigate those shortcomings, so it joined the preparation of the proposed amendments and additions. The proposal is intended by the proposer to achieve the return of the entire set of institutes to the situation before the 2003 amendments and additions. A transparent process of obtaining data on the property of the debtor is proposed, the enforcement of first-degree judicial decisions on the payment of claims whose principal does not exceed a thousand or 5,000 kuna, respectively. A real estate eyewitness shall be established, in particular the performance on motor vehicles, the performance on securities, the participation of public notebooks in the executive procedure and others. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the draft law with certain objections and proposals of principle nature, as well as observations and proposals on certain provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to add paragraphs 7 and 8 and proposes that those claims to be charged in favour of the budget of the Republic of Croatia be initiated by the State Attorney's office by the executive procedure. In order to collect these requests, it has been stressed that it would be good to review the proposed solution, as the management of the State's attorneys' executive procedures will be further burdened by a lot of work and the need to hire new perpetrators. Article 16b of the proposal strengthens the principle of transparency of the property of the debtor, by establishing the duties of certain bodies to provide information relevant for the implementation of the executive procedure. Accordingly, it is proposed to lay down a more precise standard of paragraph 6 in such a way as to notify the debtor of the search for information, its assets or to provide for a ban on the availability of such assets. In Article 16b, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the words "intentional persons" should be replaced by the appropriate words because there is insufficient intention to initiate the executive procedure, and it is therefore proposed that the applicant of the proposal for a copy of the proposed proposal request certain information. In view of the constitutional provision guaranteeing the right to appeal against legal acts adopted in the first instance proceedings, the proposal, which provides for the enforcement of first instance judicial decisions, which do not exceed a thousand or 5,000 kuna respectively, is questionable. In the address of the president, he specifically referred to the proposed provision of Article 23a, noting that it does not deny the right to invest legal protection but becomes an executive before power. The provision is a newspaper in the legal system that already exists, for example, in the ZUP. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to support the Croatian Parliament's adoption of the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is hereby adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be presented in the debate on the Law Proposal will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34738	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The problem with the adoption of such amendments and the addition of laws as always is only partly that the legislation is not defined as it should be. I think that's a small part of the problem. And most of the problem lies in inadequate, ineffective and slow application of the law. Courts are overloaded by executive procedures, courts are overloaded by all other actions of course hundreds of thousands if not millions of cases await order. We recently passed amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, so we also suggested that new specialised courts should be included in the Courts Act. One of the proposals was for them to be working-law courts, which would reduce natural pressure on courts. However, however overworked the courts result in procedures that are of interest to the believers, so those who seek life are meant to protect them, who should protect their property, or constitutional sanctity, of private property, for years. On the other hand, abuse of procedural opportunities has the same effect and acts on mistrust in power as a whole, especially the judicial part of the government, and especially since a good part of these procedural options is actually a formalistic nature that a skilled lawyer can use to practically never reach his or her property. However essential the issue of this law is, it's still political. The legislator, which is us, needs to decide what and who the law protects. Does the debtor thus have some kind of social, misread human rights or any more interests or on the other side of the believer, i.e. whether it protects respect for contractual and compulsory relations and the letters of the law because the letter of law is a procedure, and the procedure is democracy and whether it protects the principles of the competition. The objectives of the law are nominally to speed up and simplify the procedure which, of course, is commendable to everyone in the interest. Unfortunately, I don't think it's consistent that it's been implemented throughout the bill, so I'm going to try to illustrate it on a few examples. In Article 4, the appeal of a change in the means, therefore, of the conduct under this text, as proposed, seems to me to be gaining weight, which practically prolongs the performance. It is similar in Article 7 of the proposal. However, Article 10 of the Exclusion states that guarantees in the executive procedure can be practically only in the near money which is right and which speeds up the process and makes things clearer. In Article 16b, point (b) is replaced by the following: It is said of the right of the believer to gain insight into all the property of the debtor. I think it's not only good but necessary, without it a man has no orientation, there's a mass of ability to manipulate. What I think is not well done is the fact that FINA is listed as the only institution that can provide insight into that part of the property, and banks are not mentioned. Since payment traffic is going through FINA today, but it's also happening through banks, I think the banks should also find their place here. It is also unclear to define the basic living needs and resources necessary to carry out the activities in Article 48(1) and (2). By defining what cannot be the subject of the exercise, the exercise would be simplified, made more transparent and manipulated by the debtors would be reduced to a minimum. This kind of an open expression seems to allow for further manipulation. In Article 49, a good way to avoid increasingly frequent manipulations by transfer of ownership over real estate is prescribed when an executive procedure begins. Namely, the promoter says that the executive procedure is carried out over this property, regardless of which it has passed into the ownership of another person, so that it is practically not carried out on the owner but on the property if the transfer was carried out after the start of the executive procedure, which I think is good and anyone who comes to the property in that transfer would have to make sure that they protect their own interest and that they know that this property has already been carried out. In Article 51, a well-determined asset value is also postulated, so the value of the property would no longer be permanently exercised through court and witch teams for months and years, but the court would already have the authority to assess the value of the assets, and then things could eventually be corrected but the procedure would go on and would no doubt be faster. In Article 56, also a good solution, a mandatory, practically mandatory guarantee has been introduced for those competing in the executive procedure for the purchase of property over which the exercise is carried out, because one way of actually breaking the procedure so far has been to report, without any guarantees, without any guarantees and without any obligation in the executive procedure, the party that charges the price to the sky, does not buy it, and the procedure is repeated, of course in agreement with the one whose property the enforcement is carried out. And now something that seems to me to be going in the wrong direction of law enforcement. Article 62 discusses the priorities of the performance. In the current text of the law, one of the priority participants is workers who have claims to the employer, i.e. the owner. Workers are deleted, as deleted in the Banking Procedure Act. Workers are wiped out like that. It seems like there's no room for workers in this country and no one really needs them. Workers' factories are taken, workers' salaries are not paid, and when the boss buys one of the most beautiful houses in Croatia or an hour of 30,000 euros, the company goes bankrupt then what the worker earned and what he owned, and what he lays his right to go to other believers. Because if workers and banks are in an equal position, you can imagine who will pay better lawyers, who will be more skilled in this process, who will have more influence in this process and who will be able to collect their claims absolutely safely. It won't be the workers. Still good things. Public commissions have been elaborated in detail and well, the question is how much it will work, I guess the whole network of institutions that should appear in Croatia, but the intention is obviously good, so those who want to buy the property over which the property can be seen in one place, the movables, of course, see in one place, decide what they will buy and how much they can pay for it and so on. It's a similar situation with motor vehicles. It's the simplest way of doing it, and I think it's well done. One of the new elements in the law is an eyewitness of real estate and movable property above a certain value that the Chamber of Commerce should make according to the bill. I don't know if the Chamber is qualified to do it, I don't know if the Chamber can do it, but it's obvious that it takes such a list, such a database to make sure that interested persons interested above all might have a simple insight into what's on the market for executive property. Another dangerous thing about the article 87.Bianco debtor who was now actually a means of business communication between legal persons primarily between companies, becomes also a means of communication of natural persons. That's possible. Finally, the promoter does not actually see the difference between a legal person and a natural person on that part of business. But, of course, it's dangerous. In a system where the entire state is over-indebted where citizens are over-indebted where credits have gone to consumer society no matter what, I fear that such an instrument would lead to hundreds if not thousands of cases where citizens would be left without everything they have. Finally, in article 130, the amendments and additions appear something that I honestly did not understand. Namely, the law is called a bill on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, and Article 130 of the amendment says that the article does not know which 44.. some law on litigation changes and reads in one way or another. I don't know if this law can change the law on litigation, I suppose not, so I expect that the proposal will be removed in the text for a second reading. All in all except this provision that directly harms Croatian workers who I say have already been removed as priority seekers in the bankruptcy process. In addition, it seems to me that the law has good intensities and that in a relatively good way it deals with them. But this is such an important element to me personally and the HNS club to ask a much better explanation of why it's done. And in fact, I would suggest that the Proposer give up such a solution and leave the workers in the position of a privileged applicant in the executive proceedings. So let's think about getting that employee status back and into bankruptcy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34740	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Lady Cain's turn on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34741	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. First of all, the IDS Club opposes the participation of registered notebooks in the business. As proposed in the provisions of 252a. up to 252l. A systematic change should be made in the way that the executions are completely removed from the courts for which we do not clearly oppose. But this mixed proposal is absurd. Notebooks shall be entrusted with performances based on credible documents means an account and shall be offered a stamping prize that has so far been on officials more precisely to court enforcement officers who have carried it out without delay. So far, the chief executive has submitted a proposal to the court to settle the debt claim and has proposed a solution and a settlement. This was all under the supervision of the judge, and the actions were carried out by the court performer. The judge only took part in the decision but not in the implementation of the case, so we can't talk about the judges' affairs. And the judge's business. So we could say that the party could only wait when it would be settled. If it was a proposal to settle on the salary or money at the banks, then it was effective but it was a long-term settlement if it was proposed on the movement and by selling it for settlement. However, those tasks were carried out exclusively by a judicial officer with considerable powers and by law so far. The process of settlement on movement is complex because a court official in court needs to carry out a list on the ground and then an assessment and then there goes the sale to settle in two public auctions, so if there is no settlement because the cost of the increase should then be re-accessed to the list and so on. After all, either the decision to complete or suspend the law of Article 67 shall be made. When but can be carried out to the end clearly, clearly at the proposed means. The following is also the problem of real estate activities where it is also necessary to assess and sell the same at two auctions, all of which are now done by court officials other than the sale of property by the judge or can be entrusted to the public notary. The executions on the basis of a credible document on financial claims have not been burdened by courts so far. And that's the first reason why it should be against this law. Someone wants the easiest jobs in the staff to transfer to the public notebooks in order for them to be even bigger as of tomorrow. It needs to be challenged, it needs to be disabled, and it should also be made clear. First of all, clause 252b, novels are uneconomy and impractical. The courts are now making decisions on the proposal of the authorising officer on the basis of a credible document, in a way that the official will print the press only signed by the judge and then be sent to the parties. After the expiry of the power, the case shall be shown in the accounts of the bank and the pay of the employer, and such cases which, as a rule, have a smaller number shall not burden the courts. That's what you should say. The courts burden the implementation of such solutions on the basis of a credible document but when the implementation is proposed for the collection of claims on movements and the procedure under the current implementing law is clearly complex. According to the proposal to amend the implementing law, the procedure for the implementation of the exercise on movements would continue to be in the jurisdiction of the court. Which we consider impractical and clearly uneconomic. So everything that burdens one word of the courts, where everything that needs to be done, remains in the courts that will still have to be paid out of the state budget. And where nothing should be done under quotes and where only a good profit can be made, we will give in to the notaries. That's fair, and we can agree to be cynical. The state works, spends and notebooks on the other side are rich. According to the above provisions of this implementing law, the party would, by its choice, submit the proposal for the collection of the notary’s claim, if it considers that the proposal is authorised and set up Article 252d. It would make a solution to the performance and deliver it to the parties. It takes one to eight days for such proceedings in court. Furthermore, if the notary had assessed that the proposal was not permitted or regulated or established, he would have forwarded the case to the court for the purpose of making a decision on it. In that case, the Court will, after its assessment, determine the performance of an authentic document. Furthermore, if the perpetrator objects to this solution, the notary who issued it again for the purpose of the complaint shall be decided by the court. Therefore, the notary only forwards the file to the Court of Justice of Article 252e. Furthermore, as set out in Article 252f of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, After the power of the solution in the notary, the notary shall issue a certificate of power and shall hand it over to the authorising officer. In the proposed way, the files will only be walked from the notebooks to the court, additional material costs will be incurred that will be clearly transferred to the parties, and the proceedings will take a shorter period of time instead of taking place, that is the third reason why it should be against this Act. On the basis of such a powerful and executive solution according to the novel, the authorising officer may directly ask the bank or others to pay it out of the executioner’s account a certain amount for which the application is determined and the bank is obliged to pay it. However, again during and beyond the court order laid down in Article 252g. the executioner may appeal to the competent court against the decision on the execution. After the expiry of the period referred to in Article 49i may request a postponement of the application and the court must again make a decision on the proposal submitted, all of which will last longer than that of the court because the officer will have to perform himself at the notary and submit a proposal outside the court bank, so if it is not charged with the same solution again, it is a horror and should also be said and that is 4, or 5 reasons why it should be against this Act. Furthermore, if the exercise on the basis of a credible document is proposed on the grounds of movement, that is what burdened the courts and the implementation of the exercise, i.e. The actions to be taken and taken by the notary shall be re-implemented by the court, so the notary will peel only the press and all subsequent actions, the lists of repossessment of movables, the assessment of movables, the sale of two public auctions, and the final decision on the settlement, or the completion of the exercise again, of course there are legal deadlines for the appointment of public auctions which are prescribed and also a variety of complaints by the performers. We consider the non-economical and provision of Article 252h when the application was made by a notary on cash claims and other assets of the perpetrators, because if it is not settled in cash, then it proposes another means and a case. The archduke is such a longer and more painful way as this one is proposed here in this legislative proposal. First of all, there is a cost in the notebooks, so if it is not settled then it must submit a proposal to the court, so clearly once again it will have a cost and the court must decide on the follow-up on the second and the case although the earlier decision has already been made. This has so far been all in the hands of the court who acted until the settlement, so the executive had some security. Furthermore, we note that another legal remedy has been introduced and so far we believe that he has enjoyed greater protection from the perpetrator who has asked him to settle, and this right to appeal, in addition to the already existing appeal of the perpetrators, and that the perpetrator has the right to file a complaint once he has received notice from the court that the implementation of Article 252l has begun again and here is appropriate for the perpetrator. For all of these actions, public notebooks clearly have the right to a reward, and we also know what, they have the right to compensation for costs according to Article 252l and to issue an account of these fees to the executive. Namely, reward and compensation are the costs of the execution, it's just for hitting the press. There is no argument to be acted in this way because such a press is beaten by judicial perpetrators, who have passed a professional examination and the judge signs the decision in accordance with stalking practice. Further to establishing power of attorney, it remains all within the authority of an officer who has quite a lot of authority under the current law. Therefore, there is no reason for now that the work which was in court free of charge has no reward for an officer but the fee goes to the state budget to be asked by an executive asking for the payment of the claim, so he asks someone to pay a reward to just kick the press, and that he continues to take care of how he intends. That is simply the fifth reason why this Law should not be supported, therefore. A systematic approach to the reform of the Executive Act should be made and the implementation should be fully removed from courts modelled by countries that have a elaborated system, previously secondly, to request the court's data on how much they are burdened by the implementation on the basis of a credible document and to determine whether the state costs more officers in the court and professional supervision of it or whether the same work with compensation is done by a notary officer. Thirdly, to amend the Executive Act to be economical because it cannot have an article as a Parnitic Code but only less, fourthly, in working groups to set up practitioners, judges of lawyers who can point to the efficiency of work in long-term practice,... to hire more judicial perpetrators in courts, to continuously educate them, to monitor them clearly, so far there has been no education for them, and everyone has managed to know and know and understand and finally proposed to entrust the business to public notaries only for their extreme earnings but not for the parties, and neither is it in order to relieve Croatian courts, and we need to understand that. It would be more effective to suggest that courts make all decisions on the proposal of the perpetrators for settlement and that other executive actions are carried out by someone else. The example of working in a municipal court in Rijeka is received annually about 12,000 executions on the basis of a credible document means only these stamps are pounded, 50% of which refers to monetary claims means 50% of the cases are resolved in a very short period of time, the remaining 50% is done clearly, and the remaining 50% is carried out over the movables are lists, looting, evaluations, sales, settlement and that is clear what burdens the courts. On the basis of an executive document, there are about 6 thousand per year in that court, and they are mainly proposed on movable property, real estate, shares, emigration, transfer to property, etc. The problem is that there are only three judicial perpetrators on such a large number of cases, so there's a point, and all these files are controlled by only two executive judges. Of course there are more court perpetrators the situation would probably be better. At present, Rijeka has already received 1,000 cases of enforcement based on an executive document and the inflow of such cases I am talking about this year, it does not stop and grow more and more in other courts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The executive law in the novel is Article 64. We suggest that it be complemented in a way to order the executive to propose legitimate reasons for the delay, or to justify them. In the case of large eviction or transfer to the property, often this provision must be engaged not only by the judicial perpetrator but also by the auxiliary staff for the purpose of eviction, then by several 10-seven police officers for the purpose of insurance, etc. On the other hand, there are some good solutions in this Law, but in essence the dispensation of courts will not be, what is cheap is being transferred to a notary that will only assembling unnecessary funds from clear citizens and what is also important between debtors and creditors of the state must clearly identify who they will protect. It is also time for the believer to be in some way the choice of the state, because everything goes in the direction of the debtors "diving" with themselves and the orderly believers and the state lives clearly from the regular taxpayers. However, in one over-indebted state, over-indebted citizens should also understand why they have simply been brought into such a highly ungrateful position. It is easy for those on the state budget to talk about these moments and who know that every 5th of a month will have a secure salary, however, that money is much harder to earn in some business activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34742	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First is Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34743	Well, it is incorrect that fellow Caine said that when he returned from the notebook, he would fail to carry out the task and turn to the court. So he alluded, in fact by saying and saying that what was before was free now charges the public notebook. For the party, nothing was ever free. The party paid the court, now it should pay the notebook. But what's wrong with being alone, dear colleague Cain, is not the same tool and object. So you said that the party would have to ask for an application in the second case and, in the second and second case. The asset is something else in the case. The asset is the way in which the case is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34744	Thank you. Another correction by Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34745	It is an incorrect allegation that the proposed Law amending and supplementing the law will not contribute to the discharging of courts. He will indeed contribute to the dispensation of courts, and I do not only think about the conduct of credible documents but also all other executives. There are a whole series of solutions in the proposed changes that can even be achieved mathematically in what sense and how courts will be relieved in the executive procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34746	Thank you very much. It's on behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34747	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club agrees with the proposal's intention to adopt a new full law on performance, as the fact that 450 thousand cases of a million and a half pending cases in courts are sufficiently related to the implementation of the situation in this area. The attempt by the former authorities to systematically edit the execution ended infamous. The truth is, some of the solutions related to public notebooks never came to life because last year we made changes and additions to the now applicable Implementing Law. However, the HSP Club considers that the intention of the applicant and the solutions are not in line, although they are inconsistencies. Therefore, in the HSP Club, the solutions contained in the proposal for this law look like a "glass pocket" operation announced today by the Minister, the truth, for another area. Why do we say that? Because of the fact that such solutions as are contained in the law will be primarily affected by ordinary Croatian citizens. We've already seen the situation with the workers. They're being erased in terms of their search. But I say ordinary citizens will suffer because of the fact that the bill proposes, and that primarily refers to payments of debts for municipal services, energy, water, subscription or similar things that the complaint has no suspensive effect, which means that these executions in on the principals of thousands to 5,000 kuna will go express, as Mr. Cain says, the public notary hits the seal. And now prove whether that bill was legal or not. And I'll tell you a lot of cases when certain utility companies give bills to citizens and these accounts aren't founded. Let's just say a question from the field of municipal activity, a gas connection. It no longer belongs to the municipal area and municipalities, such as cities, or municipal enterprises of municipalities and cities, cannot charge for it, but they continue to do so. No matter what I can't do. And now such a case comes to the public notary, he doesn't understand it, and until man proves that he couldn't pay for it, they'll confiscate everything for him. Or another case, say, a plumber. Water can't charge utility companies like they do, say, in Osijek by Mr. Kramarić, but they charge. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Or, let's say, a different version of the other one. The difference in the price of a meter of cubic water is for domestics, it is for tourists. Let's say on the weekend settlements that are in the area of, say, the Primorje-Gorski County or others where it's been. So any of these solutions indicate that in these cases a "ordinary man" will suffer because one who implements that part of the performance, say a public notary, all others, and we have not introduced order in that area and about the appeal he declares, while after that, in a special procedure and goes on the return of money, we know what the situation is. When the state or its bodies take it, it is very simple, but when they need to return it then it stretches for a little longer periods. It is also a problem for us and for this part which is not contained, what about the work carried out by banks when they borrowed, interested Croatian citizens. And many Croatian citizens, so for small amounts of kuna, so let's say 10, 15 thousand kunas stayed on top, as so far has been, without their property. Let's say the case of Angela Ralkovic from Long Village. It was everywhere, today the Zagreb Bank did nothing. So at least let's make a solution in this law to give all such cases the opportunity to implement the renewal process. And there are more and more cases like that. And every day they come out new, we see it in the press. And nothing really got rid of it. And now, let's say, a situation that is particularly worrying us about all this. Let's say, who's going to be able to buy seized properties, let's say apartments that can be placed in this list of values of more than 50 thousand kunas, according to the bill's proposal. They'll be able to buy those who have money. And who in Croatia has money? Those who participated in robbery, conversion, privatisation, corruption activities. And then who do we please with this law? Again to those who already have. Thus, they will be able to buy, for example, as the situation has been, for example, that an apartment worth, say, 150 thousand euros is of little interest and it buys it for 20, 30, 50,000 euros. So whoever has it will get it back and whoever doesn't will be, even if it wasn't, I say, as in these cases of billing for things, for communal fees and others for which there is no right, he will remain. And until he proves that whole part will be unfortunately too late. Therefore, the HSP Club cannot also go beyond the fact that workers are being deleted. We know how we disproved the workers ourselves. This is another expression from the government that it continues to disprove workers. We know for ourselves, let's say this is the case of the Sisak Ironworks. Promises, promises, what's the situation, when they come to life, they may never, ever get another salary now before the local elections, and after that, who knows. There's a question of Slemen workers, the Finagra case, and everything else. So at least in some regulations like this we must protect the interests of Croatian workers. It is further necessary to say, let's just say, for the situation of enforcement over final administrative solutions. Let's say the area or the defense department or other areas. In fact, they are asking for the body to which the commission should go, the judges are asking for a clause of power. And there's a variant that a normal body that won't give a clause of power and this case has been standing in court and standing still because there's no rule of law regardless of the fact that there's no administrative dispute. So as soon as something finally happened, it became final if no administrative dispute was launched, so the lawsuit was not filed, it became automatically and over the course of a month and legally, but such cases remain. Let's just say the case. We know that the government has complied with the request of developed defenders regarding the postponement of one more loan payment, but these Croatian defenders are getting from the banks that no matter what the delay is made, and now there will be a variant that will also go on in these cases. Therefore, it is difficult to agree in the discrepancies, to introduce systematic solutions, but because of all these things as well as because of the fact that it is necessary by law to define what cannot be the subject of enforcement in this form of the club HSP cannot support this law because I say it only goes to those who already have and who will get the opportunity to buy again for nothing the poor Croatian man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34748	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First it's Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34749	I would correct the allegation of a respected colleague who said, quote: "The ordinary Croatian citizens will suffer by applying or passing this law." The ordinary Croatian citizens should do so for the sake of the public, they will not get hurt or have any legal institute in the bill of law that could thus be interpreted. And another correction, I quote: "Only those who have accumulated themselves in conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia have money." Thank God in the Republic of Croatia they have Croatian citizens' money such as top athletes, artists, top managers. The amount of money or someone's fortune in this country is absolutely compared to what you've said can't therefore be compared.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34750	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34751	The Institute is correcting an incorrect allegation because I said that citizens will suffer from solutions that are said to have no suspension effect... amounting to between 1,000 and 5,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34752	Yeah, but there was talk that only those who robbed the same thing would be able to buy. But we cited and maybe hurt a lot of citizens who got legal and made money and bought something. We can't all be them now. So it was a correct correction to the incorrect assumption, and it was not correct to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34753	Well, I must, Mr Kovacevic, a colleague of Kovacevic is prone to generalization and in one inappropriate context he mentioned the City Administration of Osijek, which works only in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and receives high recognitions for it. Here's last Friday, so I'd like to ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34754	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Cube of HDZ, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34755	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. Well, here I will start by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community's Club supports the Amendments and Supplements Act, and it finds its opinion or a foothold of this kind of thinking because an analysis of the situation found in terms of the Institute of Implementation or an example of the Executive Law actually points to concrete new quality solutions to solve the system of enforcement in the Republic of Croatia. The current state, therefore, of the situation found, of the state of conduct in the Republic of Croatia clearly points to the following conclusions. First, the quality of enforcement is often questionable, and parties often abuse their procedural powers in the process, and some procedural solutions are needlessly formalistic and often due to procedural or competent reasons, the executive procedures are unnecessaryly delayed and ultimately taking too long. Secondly, the courts are really overloaded by a large number of executive cases. Implementation and insurance procedures take too long and are often without adequate success. Third, the Law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, in November 2003, which was intended to contribute to the discharging of courts in the executive procedure and to increasing the overall level of efficiency of the procedure, did not achieve the expected result. On the contrary, it was precisely in this sense that the opposite effect was achieved and related to either one or a) and the constitutional question of some newly adopted solutions at that time. Furthermore, the Institute of Conduct on demand at the bank's account allows, therefore, or has enabled many abuses. The sale of movables by the introduction of commission stores is not designed and elaborated at all in order for the institution concerned to apply in practice, fiduciary insurance or fiduciary insurance to the practical value of the solution provided for in the previous law and, in some sense, transitional provisions relating to the fiduciary insurance of demand are clearly intruded on the one hand into acquired rights and, on the other hand, contractual relations. Finally, the imagined concept of public note-making is obviously contrary to the basic purpose and I would say so, public note-making purposes and the intended solutions are difficult to implement in practice in which it has already intervened in the Implementing Law of the amendments in 2004. Therefore, the analysis of the situation found just points to the necessity of the proposed changes, and the very quality of the amendments of the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club recognises not only in concrete legal solutions but also in the context of this draft of the principles adopted in the first place, which I point out firstly, the principle of transparency of the debtor's assets. This principle has been specifically developed by a new provision, the provision of Article 16b. the proposed amendments. The effectiveness of the exercise should therefore significantly contribute to this legislative solution in terms of transparency and facilitating the acquisition of information on the property of the perpetrators in order to seek enforcement. In practice in terms of carrying out this is one of the major problems observed, and I think we can all agree on that. In fact, we can say that success of the proposed reform will depend heavily on whether the principle of transparency of the debtor's assets will indeed begin to be more seriously affirmed by the proposed law, so that only the principle and acceptance and support will be accepted. And the second principle that is set out here is, in the sense of development, the principle of the protection of the credentials as one of the principles of the executive procedure, but as the minister said in her opening statement, and this principle is balanced, cannot therefore be interpreted in terms of specific legal provisions, in terms of favouring, favouring or interpreting only or in some 100% amount of respect, i.e. for the benefit of the credentials. However, the principle of the protection of creditors or the development of this principle would reduce or reduce the risk between the other and the credit rating should contribute to the general creditworthiness, and a new arrangement of the fiduciary insurance institute should be added to this. In an indirect manner, this solution would also result in the dissipation of course of courts, as implementation would make too much of an appeal to the task of forcing the pursuit of demand. Therefore, that the principle of protection of creditors but in addition to this balanced manner, i.e. a balanced approach to both the principle itself and its implementation in practice. In terms of concrete legal solutions, we point out... so the solution that seems important to us is mentioned in terms of the debate on the proposed changes. First, by prescribing the enforcement of first-degree court decisions requiring payment of the claim but whose principal does not exceed 1000 and 5000 kuna respectively. It is very important here to mention these cash amounts because these are small sums which, in the sense of performance, are thus assessed in practice, or the proposer is actually going for these small amounts, or for natural or legal persons, to make the executive procedure as simple as possible, and that these executions or such a type of exercise are not, in fact, affected by the courts to dissipate them in this regard and that the flow of these performances is, of course, in accordance with the regulation and in accordance with the Constitution and the law guaranteed, which ultimately results in the speed, efficiency and efficiency of the implementation itself. Second, the establishment of an immovable property register sold in the executive procedure of the Institute should also contribute to the acceleration and costing of this form of enforcement. A very important institute to be mentioned in this context. Furthermore, the exercise of movements, therefore moving things, introduces and compulsory confiscation of the seized movements from the perpetrators and their trust in keeping an executive and third party including the commissioners, emphasises the responsibility of the executive to participate more actively in the implementation of the exercise and here should be added to the establishment of the eyewitnesses of the movement that are sold in the executive procedure and whose estimated value is greater than 50 thousand kuna. Furthermore, as an important newspaper, we see the arrangement or development of specific assumptions for the establishment, organisation and operation of commission stores special arrangement of the performance of motor vehicles and extension of application, not as an institute but as an extension of the possibility of use and binco of the debtor. In addition, implementation by means of legal persons accounts is simplified and the participation of public notebooks in the executive procedure is prescribed, but in a way that determines the implementation on the basis of credible documents and delivers the performance solutions to the rule of law and enforcement. When it comes to public notebooks, it should also be noted that it opens up the possibility that, on the basis of the decision of the public notary on the basis of a credible document, it is directly carried out in the case of banks and employers without the involvement or activity of the court or of the court in the sense of enforcement. It is prescribed that a judicial exercise of the application may be requested on the basis of public records of the performance. All of this really represents one reform procedure in the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. The executive procedure is being speeded up it becomes more quality than it is now or today, and all of which should be achieved in the final line and the dissipation of courts, i.e. by a large number of inflows of executive character cases mainly in municipal courts. Finally, in the context of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34756	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34757	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vice President, dear assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of this problem, the problem of the effectiveness of the execution of a judicial verdict, that is, how the believer to charge for something that is unequivocal and that is determined before the court. Just one example which is the paradigm of countless examples in Croatia. The man loaned his friend money, and you know the outcome in a very short time he was left with no friends and no money, I promised him I'd give it back to you, he won't, only the man knows that the litigation is long, but as he doesn't come back he's headed for a lawsuit. The lawsuits are long, tiring, and with several abolishing verdicts, however, he managed to pass a powerful court ruling, he received a credible executive ruling. And now, only now have there been troubles and years and years of collection of something that is so clear, on the basis of the contract, on the basis of a credible document that he is obliged to pay back a certain amount of money. The Court of First Instance finds clearly that the exercise has to be carried out by selling real estate, but the second-degree court is based on Article 6(6). The law says that if that were to happen, it would hurt the dignity of the debtors. We're not here to discuss court rulings either, but in any case, to create conditions for such situations to be impossible. If we have contributed to that, or how many legislative solutions are the generator of such situations, the believer is simply no longer interested in the situation in the judiciary, he wants to collect what he has given the debtor. The deadlines for fulfilling the contractual relationship should become a key point of the system. The point from which several years ago in Croatia went into battle against internal indifference. Believers are growing nerves, crossing the legal line, and instead of the court and the law, they drive out justice themselves, how much of the system is responsible for it. The phenomenon of violent debt exorcising, in turn, from black chronicles crosses the frameworks and becomes a social and political problem a pair of excellences. It's like we forgot what happened in 2003 and what kind of law we passed. He was radical and revolutionary, and that's how we see it, and that's exactly how these changes that return to many things to the old. And in 2003, the existing Implementing Law, i.e. the amendment, went in this direction to increase the effectiveness of the exercise, to prevent to the greatest extent possible the abuse of procedural rights and to dissipate courts from judicial cases in accordance with the European Council of Ministers' Directive. The basic purpose I think is that we are in conflict with a ruling concept that demands today a balance between debtors and creditors there can be no balance unless we catch the basic thought of leading the executive procedure. The exercise has only one purpose, and that is to achieve the believer’s right as quickly and efficiently as possible. The archduke, not to be lamentated again, discusses any rights or proofs that they exist or that they seek balance as we have heard here several times between the believer and the debtor. The expert on executive law, which to the most extent criticised the existing law as a redesignal, gave the best commendation to that law of the existing law that we are now changing, will no longer be able to postpone the exercise, and that was the purpose of these significant changes. But what happened. It happened that after a year of amending the executive law because the vaccio legion was long, because it was necessary. For all parallel services to be qualified because of significant structural changes. It was a reform procedure. There are also in this existing law and improvements, and praises the valuable solutions. However, they are insufficient to solve a huge problem. I'm not saying this for any political speculative reason. Because we should all be interested in just improving the situation in the judiciary and we've seen that the executions are still over 6,000 today. So the largest number of delays refers to the performance. And that's why it was really weird why at the end of last year, when the government came out with the proposal, we passed the Law on amendments to the executive law, where the whole section that was entitled to the participation of public notebooks was suspended. But not only in this way, which was criticised by today's representative Cain, therefore not only on the basis of credible documents, not only of such executives but also of many others and more complex ones. And therefore, in order to have only one goal and purpose, the believer must charge what the debtor owes him, and on the other hand, that the courts should indeed be dispersed and dealt with by litigation and criminal matters. It's worth hearing here, and what the minister says is that the number of litigation cases is decreasing, the good part is the result of this law that we now want in some way to ease its blade. But also an excellent litigation process for the new litigation procedure that was just being followed by radical changes. And a great great struggle to prevent the abuse of all participants in the process. So now, after the amendment of this existing executive law, which had suspended the activities of public notebooks in the field, he now had a proposal that touched or changed and returned to many things before 2003, and this is said and argued in the explanation of the individual articles that are changing. And that's what we think at the SDP club, it's not good at all. So instead of a year later, let's see what the problem is, to further strengthen the position of the credentials, here's the government almost to the unsuspecting extent of the re-enhancing position of debtors. This actually sends a terrible message to the debtors, do not fulfill your obligations to your country as the state has again become the biggest debtor. Again, the state does not fulfil its obligations. And so by the same principle, don't pay either, and neither do we. The government, in fact, has become a spokeswoman for the debtors, and it seems to me that it has been tested to strengthen business and civil morality in general. These changes seem to have been written by all the debtors. Because just in a lot of things that are getting worse, it makes it harder to meet the obligations, and that's what I'm saying is what's not good at all. We at the SDP Club have supported the government's proposals, even the smallest measure that has come to this portfolio. Even when we disagreed with everyone, we felt that in some things more radical cuts and procedures were to be done. But I'm saying it worries us that we're going back to the situation before 2003. The truth is I'll repeat that there are several solutions like the eyewitness, the register, which are in any case an improvement in the situation. But there's only a few improvements that mattered where things went backwards. And that's not good. We felt that the executive procedure should be modernised as much as possible to simplify the procedure as possible, so I repeat the credentials on the basis of a valid judicial decision to be able to effectively exercise my right. This proposal protects the debtor through measures, protects the debtor more than is necessary. I repeat, this is not good for strengthening business for public discipline, for strengthening civil morality. And what is particularly important for strengthening social discipline and, in general, the awareness of the rule of law. 6,000 items are not a small number that is one huge number of cases and no more country has such luxury does not keep itself such a luxury that it burdens itself with its own judiciary that is always expensive when any trial before the court is always expensive for both the party and the state, and therefore not to dissipate as much as possible. As I said, the government itself says in an explanation of some articles that it is returning the situation to before the 2003 changes. However, something that is in the eyes and I find that it is not a good solution because it will again or again be burdened by other services. That is how we see in the provision of Article 11 where the execution cannot be carried out in order to carry out the work. And that's something to worry about. And that's something, so if you don't go into radical changes all the time, you're gonna have to look for and shut down those drills where that executive number always goes to some hill. And here it is proposed to engage for this very purpose, therefore, when the debtor does not pay even the fine. YES, such actions will, of course, be penalties for the benefit of the state budget, that they will, by official duty, be initiated by the state's attorney's office. That means 2,000 new state attorneys. In order to conduct these procedures alone, it would be a real shame, therefore, that institution which has resolved its delays to burden the executive procedures in this way, and when the believer has little use for it. Because the debtor has no property he showed his property even though it was due, he's being punished by an executive court to hire a state attorney's office, and there's nothing of it to be done because the execution is suspended. And the execution is now being carried out over this punishment of the debtors. What's the benefit of a believer? And all we have is damage to the country's subsequent damage because this Article 11 would cause enormous damage in several aspects. I also think it is not good to go there through privileged debtors because this social aspect, especially among the creditors, should be expressed where those provisions are suspended that are privileged just like those who are workers, such as those who are disabled in a harmful event. And from what it was then followed by an executive ID. That should come back anyway. It is also a pity that, in several cases, the court must take care, therefore, that opposition and opposition reasons are reintroduced, so the debtor is sewn again. And if we see an explanation of certain articles everywhere you will come across for the protection of the human rights of debtors, so no one is saying that you should charge the debtor something that he doesn't owe the believer. But the intensity must be that the debtor is obliged to pay the believer his. So here's what we're seeing. We're looking at a concerned proposer who's going to be with these cases, and that's what you're seeing in article 29, if by chance, and as things have been effectively set up so far, something is being charged by a debtor who doesn't owe it. And I'm asking you if there's one case in practice that the debtor was grieving from the religious man something that, that the believer asked the debtor what he didn't owe him. Never. But they are numerous, and there are numerous procedures that are being suspended to the detriment of the credentials because there is not, the procedure is most often not effective in achieving its right to do so. It is certainly to welcome the further institution to strengthen public commission actions that were under the existing law. But it's a shame to cut off Finna. We have already seen here in several laws that she has both human and material opportunities to do so. I'll do something more detailed in an individual discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34758	Thank you very much. At 12 and 10, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Assistant. In fact, I can really agree with what Ms. Minister said in the opening explanation of this Bill's proposal to reduce the number of pending files found in courts among which the cases of the waste execution are approximately, we know that figure, somewhere one-third. However, the number of cases remains extremely large. That this is the case, colleagues and colleagues should only read the final report of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to this Assembly in which the Constitutional Court warns of several things. To further trials that take too long and to violate that principle of right of trial within a reasonable period of time. Thus, only the Constitutional Court has increased over the last few years, i.e. the inflow to the Constitutional Court of that title has increased 2.6 times. Of course, in such cases, the Constitutional Court also orders a lower court, whether regular or specialised, not lower but regular or specialised, that it is required to end a certain procedure and determines the compensation for the damage. It is a bit inappropriate because there is a Constitutional Court I must admit the fat right, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia judges in the first degree in the proceedings for damages due to the length of these proceedings. The Constitutional Court warns here that changes to the Law on Courts are necessary, which seems to me the government tried last week. But it also warns that due to the low, low censorship of the revision, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in some cases cannot evenen the case-law and suggests that the law on litigation should be amended. This second amendment, unfortunately, tried to put into the Law on Courts, tried, placed itself in the first reading of the law. But let me get back to this law. Namely, if you were to ask the archdukes, the perpetrators, or if you wanted the believers, whether the debtors were dissatisfied with the present state of affairs and with the conduct of the courts and with the laws. They'd tell you the same thing if they were. If you had the same dishes, they would have said the same thing. Indeed, the state of enforcement is such that the courts are overloaded and would not agree with the thesis that the place is performed exclusively in courts, the same thing that they cannot agree with the the thesis that it performs the place exclusively with public notebooks. We had such a combined approach in the past, not the past, but the law now in force, and that's a good solution, and I think it's, it shouldn't have gone too fast. Of course, that law required a number of sublegal acts, of course a lot of work at the Justice Department, but I think it was good, it was good to continue with such a sublegal procedure. You know, it's interesting in this law to read under the assessment of a part of the argument. Thus, it is said in several points when the situation of court proceedings and insurance takes too long, that key courts are overloaded by the number of executive cases, that parties often abuse their procedural powers in the process, that courts do not or are reluctant to use an instrument to combat such abuses. That some procedural solutions are unnecessaryly formal. And now that they've thrown out what's going on in public notebooks and what's going on with these performances, it would actually turn out that such an assessment of the situation could be applied to any material and procedural law. I think the promoter should have tried harder and more to assess the situation, with more information to interest us in discussing this law. But what's there is. You know this in your essence and it is both material law and procedural law. I mean, I don't think we're going to solve all the problems with it and the HSS Club is unfortunately not going to be able to support it in the first reading. We'll see what he'll be like as the final proposal. And I'm going to suggest to the Proposer that a few obvious things are worth fixing, to do so in a second reading. First of all, I would like to draw attention to Article 4(3), which literally reads: "If a powerful solution to a specific means or an object cannot be implemented by an executive in order to settle the same demand, a new means or the subject of an application may be proposed. In that case, the court will make a new solution to the performance and continue the implementation on the basis of this solution. The performance determined by the previous decision on the performance will be suspended if the executive withdraws the executive proposal." I don't know why. Which is why it is simply not going to be a solution to be considered withdrawn by submitting a new proposal. The procedure is very clear, the text is nomotechnically cleaner and more substantively correct. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication "If, within 2 months of notification by the Court of Justice of the inability to implement the application, the application referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall not be suspended." This seems to me to be the most terrible provision in this law. And now I'm going to tell you why. This is what we're really going to do to reduce the number of pending cases in courts, but we're not going to solve the problem. You have a situation where the subject may be a property that is so burdened with mortgages that the court will inform the party in a procedure called the executive that it cannot carry out the performance on that property. But these pawned mortgage burdens, the burdens can last for a year. What's gonna happen? The executive will then have to submit another proposal for the performance. For what? It'll be more than 30 days, it won't be able to, of course it won't be able to find another subject of execution, the procedure will be suspended, and we'll be able to re-produce the credentials or executives one more time, whatever you want to call it in a position to generate further costs, we'll produce the items. But it's exactly the same, so we're gonna get rid of the case in a hurry. That doesn't help solve the problem. I would also like to draw attention to the provision of Article 13, paragraph 3. It is not clear why when FINAs are ordered to supply account data, only accounts or accounts through which that person carries out regular activity shall be indicated. For this reason, it does not appear in paragraph 3 of the same article on all accounts. And now I'm going to explain why. Namely, performing an activity means paying through that account. This would mean that he who holds the money in a given account, so that he does not pay the money, so that he does not carry out the activity, will not be given any information. Why doesn't it stand in that item 3 of all accounts? Well, it's logical that the performance is always done, that forced payment of the due demand on your property except, of course, the one that is excluded by this law. Executive of the first-degree court decision, Article 23. Indeed, it is a provision that reads: "A first-degree court decision requiring a natural person who does not carry out the registered activity to pay off the demand whose principal does not exceed a thousand kunas, i.e., etc. The appeal against such a decision does not delay the performance." For what? I don't get it. This really means that we will be the most socially endangered, which is what they are if you look at the essence of such a search, but these are in the most common number of municipal fees and to the extent that they are meant to be. Which is why this complaint would not be suspended, I do not understand, it is also a matter of constitutionality of such a provision. And the next article of the same article, the final court ruling. Don't forget that often the cost-refunding solution is also determined by arguments, not only by decisions that end the proceedings and would suggest that the item 2 is inserted after the word "in" and before the word "judicial", "in a final court decision". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the Court of First Instance considers that the appeal has not been established, it will refer the case to the court of second instance. I guess for the reasons set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. I suggest you insert that part of the text. Reference to a complaint on the grounds of appeal, Article 48. If the authorising officer acknowledges the existence of any of the reasons for which the appeal has been lodged, the court will suspend the application. Why not? Why would that be? What if the executive admits that the search has been partially completed? Then I guess they'll partially suspend the exercise and partially accept the appeal. I think that text should be inserted. The fact that the perpetrator is referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article or that it has been initiated does not prevent it from breaching the performance and achievement of the expert’s demand unless otherwise specified by this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official I don't know why. I suggest that the same wording be rewritten. The reply to the complaint, Article 50, is amended and read, is contained in Article 32. The decision to appeal will reject or accept the appeal unless the case referred to in Article 51 of this Act is accepted by the Court of First Instance and the action carried out will be suspended. Why the text like that again? Why not partially if the performance is partially fulfilled. I think that text should be fixed in that sense. But so I don't move on. Namely, colleagues and fellow MPs are the biggest part of the cause of this problem for four reasons. The first is the general economic situation with us and general indifference. Another is the difficult social situation in which our citizens are located, and the third and fourth causes what are called the law we have or what we are offered and of course the situation in our courts. Fortunately or unfortunately, Madam Minister, these two are the last to be held accountable by the government and your ministry. Unfortunately, for now, the HSS club can't support a proposal like this. We suggest to the promoter that the text be corrected in accordance with the remarks I made on behalf of the club and, of course, nomotechnically correct the text, in which case we are ready to support this law when we read the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34760	Thank you very much. DC club, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34761	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Minister. The DC, HSLS and LS provide its full support to the intensities of the proposings which are the basis for the solutions offered in this Proposal in the Law amending and supplementing the law, Implementing Law. Namely, here are the reasons for the basic intentions of these changes and additions, so first of all, we come to the dispensation of the courts, which was a lot to talk about. Then we have one more effective performance, and we are free of charge if something cannot or has nothing to do, and ultimately the main goal is to protect the creditors or reduce the risk of lending, etc. During the debate, there was a lot of talk and commentation about the ordinary Croatian man to give protection to the believer, debtor, or less of the believer, with one such solution offered here. I can understand the debate and the words she has sent here behind this pay phone colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović since these amendments and additions are actually a kind of criticism of the solutions which are so far two years ago and as a result of these solutions we have this ordinary little Croatian man in all segments who have actually suffered with these solutions, but all those in this process that should have allowed him to come to his demands. So it's generally estimated that court proceedings, i.e. executions, and... that they take too long, that courts are burdened with the number of executive cases, that the quality of the execution is often questionable, that abuses of procedural powers, that there are a number of these pranks that are actually indefinitely stalling the performance itself as such. Why did this happen, I would not enter here, during the debate so far there were words about it, but the ordinary Croatian man went into a kind of, sort of self-protection, began to engage in detective activities, so he began to search for the property of a believer so that he could collect his claims so that we got one chaotic state in society that private detectives, private detective groups that went looking for property so that they could be charged. You have as many examples as you want, read the daily press, and you can see for yourself. Such solutions that are offered simply eliminate such an option, we come to a legal obligation to make one register and property from which one who requests to collect his claims will be able to collect. Looking at a political way like that... The damage has one chaotic state in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The citizen is primarily interested in the efficiency and protection of his claims if he cannot get it from the state, or from the competent institutions, then he will clearly self-organise himself, then we have one parallel power which I believe is not the fear of any legislator. I would like us all to put ourselves together when we discuss these issues, to put ourselves in the skin of that man who can't get to his claims, so if these solutions mean a step towards achieving his claims, then I think they really need to be supported. In the end, I wouldn't go any further here, but my colleagues said a lot before me. I expect that when we adopt the amendments and the additions of this law that we will have clearly, that we will achieve what we wanted, that we will achieve the effectiveness of the exercise, that we will protect the believers, that we will relieve the courts, because these criticisms that have been so far, I think they are going according to this Bill of Amendments and Amendments of the Law, they go in a way that everyone looks through the glasses they are looking through. So he doesn't want to be objectively set up to justify the ciceoro pro domo sua. In today's press, we have this very interesting title, he says, "Your neighbor's car is going to the drum for our TV subscription." I hope that when we adopt these amendments and additions, when we have a new executive law that this kind of ridiculous situation will not happen so let's say that we have a man who didn't pay a TV subscription and that a judicial confiscation officer writes down a neighbor's car that's around him somewhere. Indeed, these ridiculous situations question the whole system. So I think that we are all invited to be serious and responsible, no matter how many solutions we may have made at a given time, some do not respond. The DC club, HSLS and LS will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34762	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34763	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. So I think first of all, the fact that this is the 7th amendment and the addition of the law on the executive procedure speaks enough about the stability of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia and the responsibility of the policy to check that system in practice. I must say that the Bill's proposal in general annuls the previous amendment and addition of the Law, so the most important institutes that the previous amendment and supplement has introduced as a reflection on efficiency in the executive procedure of this Law annuls. And something else introduces a fiduciary supply as a security of demand. In such a situation, we certainly cannot expect this Law to achieve the goals it has written, written, or predicted. Here it is repeatedly said that the Executive Law is a protection or instrument of the credentials. If we look at it that easily then the state is on the side of stronger and the market is not talking about the market and the meaning of the Implementing Law is that the state is neutral to all those who participate in the market and even to consumers. Because neither the Consumer Protection Act nor the Implementing Law is intended to protect individual groups of citizens of either social or other categories, but aims to regulate the market in the best way. If so, and the truth is the bill is just going to strengthen countries in the protection of large capital one of the reasons is to say that there is no appeal to first-degree judgments and they are executive and executive from 1000 to 5000 kuna. What does that mean in practice, colleagues and colleagues? This means that our banks that are massively sharing current accounts and allowing overruns on the current account of 2000 kuna have an excellent instrument to put under control, i.e. under the incredible conditions of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we add that in Croatia to be mild, there is unemployment, and that barely people survive, it's actually a low standard, it's a general phenomenon that they're looking for overruns in the current account, so people survive. A good example was set by a colleague from DC if it continues not to go into complete proceedings, complaints, complaints, etc., which is the meaning of the neutrality of the state, regardless of who is on the market, then the lowest layers will certainly be affected under this law. If that's what the proposer wanted, then he should have written it. If it's said to be analogous to this ZUP, then we should say that the state behaves on the market as well as on the ZUP, then, on behalf of the state, it makes a solution and does not regulate the market. In my court, therefore, there is an analogy with the Law on Administrative Procedure because it is indeed for the administration of procedural law rather than for the market for procedural law. This Law, in a certain way, devalues previous changes when it comes to the handling of notebooks in the executive procedure. Of course, we can't say that experiencedly because he didn't live long enough to be able to discuss it properly, but at least the law could have predicted because the government had experience in several cases, this very government today, which means that workers in both the Executive and the bankruptcy proceedings must have a priority that was given to Imostroy workers. If, in that case, it has been observed that workers have to go from one payment order to a better payment order, why this as a general rule was not found in the draft implementing law and it has been transposed into the bankruptcy law. One more thing about the qualification that political overplay is that this law does not belong to the acquis communautaire regime, it does not say that the Law of Laws and legal gains of the European Union, it is our domestic law for our needs, for our internal needs, for our market and our social opportunities, and this law does not really respect the Croatian market or Croatian social opportunities. It may be necessary to predict or analyse how many executive procedures there are from 1000 to 5000 kuna, perhaps this can be given to citizens and to us in the Assembly, what a danger it is to cause injustice in the name of efficiency. How much of that is in total market traffic, how much of this does demand or debt, and who mostly looks for it, and who owes it. I'll go back to that, so I think it's mostly favored by banks, state or quasi state institutions such as Croatian TV because there are 400, 500 thousand TV subscribers, the Croatian Health Protection Institute, and the Mirovinski Institute and additional insurance, that's all in the 1000 to 5000 regime. All claims under contract, relations, etc. So it won't happen that in a collision with an INA or a stronger company, a first-degree performance will be carried out. So my opinion is that the law does not regulate the market in a neutral way does not make all participants in the Croatian market the same, that they are subject to the same procedure rather than favouring large capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34764	Thank you. Replica's respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34765	Mr. President, I would like to rephrase to the esteemed colleague and, in my opinion, not only because not only of the discussion but also of the opportunities we have had to hear and hear so far, it is not correctly interpreted and it does not explain the position of the executive law in relation to the Law on bankruptcy, especially when it comes to the legal institute of bankruptcy in the context of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and all that we have, in relation to the workers, as possible creditors in the bankruptcy proceedings, had the opportunity to hear. So this is the executive law and the debate is about the executive law which absolutely affirms the principle of protection of creditors in terms of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the basic principle and that's the setting-up of every excessive executive law. Although we have had opportunities to hear both those elements and this principle that point to a balanced or balanced approach even when it comes to implementing the principle of protection of creditors. That's one thing. So when we talk about law enforcement, we shouldn't be able to identify it with a special law with a legislative specialiss, or the bankruptcy act. Who ultimately needs to be directly or precisely regulated or regulated by payment orders in terms of creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. And the other thing is, the demand for individuals up to 1000 kuna or up to 5,000 kuna when it comes to legal persons in terms of the flow of enforcement has the same status they have in the proposed law. And it is incorrect to identify large financial claims that in the executive procedure can have or have creditors. Because if the analogy made it impossible for them to highlight the appeal, we would actually be in a position that the debtor, or the believer, who asks for huge funds in the bankruptcy process, is actually left without the basic right to protection and bankruptcy proceedings, and that is the right to appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34766	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34767	Well, of course my colleague knows that it's not disputed that the law is meant to protect the believers, But that law should be generally in the same position for all believers and all debtors. Which he didn't. Then you will not argue that it is irrelevant that economic and social equality on the citizens' market is not the same. Namely, the fiduciary property of most Croatian citizens will be forced to give to banks. I assure you, the banks are already preparing for such a situation by building apartments and one-room apartments that will sell on the market what they got in fiduciary. If you don't see it then I really can't change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34768	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Banac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34769	Mr. President, I'd like to make a series of comments on this bill. A series of proposed provisions returns the executive law to the state before the 2003 amendments and additions. We know that these amendments and additions were motivated by ineffectiveness and inappropriation of the provisions of the implementing law for the purpose of the exercise. Although these amendments and additions may have proved inadequate, it is necessary to carry out a full analysis and evaluation of the procedures to help speed up the implementation of the operation, instead of going back to the situation that was before the 2003 amendments were made and the additions. The very concrete strengthening of the procedural discipline that I wish to achieve is to amend a series of provisions of the current executive law, which goes to the detriment of the executive. So, for example. Article 21 proposes to amend Article 35(3) in a way that rejects an incomplete proposal for implementation by a court is obviously at the expense of the credentials and contributes to the creation of unnecessary costs. In accordance with Article 71, the amendments to Article 129 are proposed, which prescribes the rejection of the proposal for implementation. This provision is also at the expense of the executive. Article 68 proposes the addition of the implementing law by introducing Article 121a. which is a principle which, although generally good, introduces the obligation of an executive to pay and bail with all compensation. Which is a considerable unnecessary burden for the executive. Furthermore, the extension of the deadlines for certain procedural actions also goes to the detriment of the executive. It is also one point proposed by the present debate in Article 62 to amend Articles 105 and 106 of the applicable implementing law. Which provides privileged treatment for workers. And by abolishing such treatment, it is explained by the fact that they exist in bankruptcy. Respecting the fact that bankruptcy claims are regulated, the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy, however, I think it would be appropriate to maintain the current regulation. Privilege treatment of workers in the field. The provisions on public commission stores are too complicated and it is doubtful whether they will enable better, i.e. fast sales of seized movables. Perhaps it would be wise to consider more liberalising the business of the public commission of the store. The possibility of refusing to take on a mover provided for in Article 143(5) is currently in favour of greater liberalisation of the services of notified commission stores. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and b. which provides for the introduction of eyewitnesses is the principle of a good idea. However, the question arises as to how it will be implemented in practice. Who will compensate the economic chamber for the costs of conducting such an eyewitness, then the additional work for courts, for example, the obligation to supply data. Besides, what if the records in the eyewitness don't match the actual state? The provisions on enforcement on the basis of a credible document are contrary to the general principle of the executive law or to the law on litigation, the local jurisdiction of courts to the residence or the seat of the perpetrators. Finally, it is expected that the perpetrators will be able to make objections against the performance solution on the basis of a credible document brought by public notebooks. So instead of discharging the courts, which will not actually come to an end, it will only extend the executive procedure to the harm of the executive. If a study is carried out, or if there is data on the percentage of complaints made against the performance solution on the basis of a credible document in relation to the total number of solutions to the performance. We don't know that. Only on the basis of such a study would it be possible to conclude whether the transfer of part of the area from the executive law to the public notebooks would be paid at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34770	Thank you. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34771	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the judicial authority is independent and independent. However, the fact is that they are also aware of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I personally believe that this same authority is the weakest link of government. Due to numerous unresolved cases, in which it is obvious that Croatian citizens are extremely unhappy and especially because of the number of cases not solved from work relations, because citizens who have lost their jobs and no resources in the process of conversion and privatisation are long waiting for even 10 years to solve cases of employment. And of course any proposal by any government, whether HDZ or SDP, which goes towards increasing the efficiency of the courts, for the courts to dissipate unnecessary items and from the data available, from a total of one million and a half unsolved cases, is that 30% of these cases are about to be waste on the implementation, and when it comes to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, it would be logical to say that such a proposal should achieve the objectives that Mrs. Minister said in the opening statement, which should achieve the objectives of simplification, acceleration and cost-effectiveness of the procedure, so it would be logical for such a proposal if it were indeed so, of course, of course, to provide support. However, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, speaking on behalf of my club, the SDP's Club of Representatives, has made it clear that the current amendment proposal will not achieve fundamental objectives, will not increase efficiency, it will not protect the right of creditors and solutions that are actually proposed by this proposal are insufficient, they are insufficient because they offer an institution to bring solutions to public notebooks only on the basis of credible documents. And as it comes to first reading, I will then, in my presentation, only show myself to some questionable solutions, solutions that are offered, which will not actually relieve the courts, will not cheapen the procedure and those objectives that the proposer has set out in the explanation of the bill. In fact, the way in which public notebooks are intended to participate in the work is doubtful and in my opinion inappropriate because I doubt that the proposed solution will be fulfilled by any reason given in the explanation. When it comes to executive procedures on the basis of credible documents, it should then be pointed out that, in order to adopt such a single solution to the referent, I refer to the referent rather than the judge, the executive referendum needs maximum, as they have told me, 5 minutes, because, in practice, at the submission of the proposal, a stamp that actually represents a solution to the performance. This Service Proposal will make the parties more expensive because it will also charge 22% of VAT, and the funds collected in this way, which have so far gone into the state budget, will be lacking in the state budget, and will not be disbursed in courts and I do not think there is any justification for one, for such solutions as the colleague, speaking on behalf of my club said insufficient. Otherwise, Article 252.d provides that a party may submit a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document to the public notary of its choice and ask him to make a decision on the basis of such an instrument and, if it is known that the biggest enforcement officers are large systems such as HEP, Plinara, HT and others, it is possible that only a certain number of public notaries will solve these tasks and that this opens up the possibility for which other manipulations which will ultimately have to end before the court again. I'm listing some of the elements that make me think that these solutions are not entirely acceptable. It should also be pointed out to the absurdd provision of Article 252.b(2), according to which, if the proposal for enforcement is submitted on the basis of a credible document to the court instead of a public notary, the court is obliged to reject this proposal because it turns out that the court in the executive procedure must not resolve anything which is simple and easy to resolve, and not even decide which public notary will send it. However, at the same time, the court is authorised and obliged to resolve such a case on the basis of Article 252.d if it is supplied to it by a public notary. I think it's absurd and it's kind of humiliating for a court that normally has to control the work of public notebooks and solve complaints about their work and all that without any compensation. The following is the extent to which this bill pleases, for example, public notebooks, you see in the provision of Article 252h. Because it is a court order, it turns out that the public notary will make a decision on the performance to collect the reward if the exercise cannot be carried out then the party will address the court and the court will carry out the more unpleasantly difficult part of the job, i.e. to carry out an errand on a particular case and then we actually relieved the court. Do these proposals that I repeat not have the full justification to be accepted in this way and I think we should think a little bit about the debates that are being held here today by the second reading? Because the basis of the information that I have collected to the extent possible from municipal courts in Istria where I come from, it turns out that enforcement based on credible documents is no problem, that these tasks are done very quickly by judicial advisers and officials, I repeat not the judges but by the judicial advisers and officials, that there should be a potential increase in the number of referents and officials in the executive referendums, and compensation for this would be obtained by inflow of funds into the state budget, and that the real problems actually arise when they are carried out on the basis of an executive document, and all taking into account the existing law that pleases the perpetrators. The release of the court from these cases if the proposal remains as it is anyway, and these transactions, according to their allegations, do not pose any particular problem, will not achieve exactly those objectives which the minister stated in her opening statement. Mostly the lawyers here discussed this, I'm not a lawyer and since it's about first reading I'm convinced that those goals will not be achieved and I suggest that those remarks be considered until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34772	Thank you. Final review, Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues thank you for all these suggestions and for the remarks you have made on the amendments and additions to the Implementing Law. There were really useful suggestions, and we will seriously consider them and install them into our Final Bill. Our goal is indeed to speed up and simplify the executive procedure. Four hundred thousand cases of execution are currently in the country. And that shows that the legal solutions we've had so far have not been good. And that, you have to admit the mistakes. We must achieve an effective performance, of course we cannot go to the detriment of the fundamental rights of citizens, but we must introduce order and discipline in this respect. And the executions don't need to be afraid, finally it's the ultimate means of collection, but it has to be in the rule of law if we want to strengthen the rule of law and if we want to strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit in the country. And that is why we have introduced in this bill some newspapers, eyewitnesses of movables and real estate, sales commissions, a series of new solutions we have introduced and we believe that with the final text of the law, and you have made your contribution there, and you will give them more in the final debate, we will get effective enforcement and, of course, legal certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34774	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, first reading, Proposal for a Law No. 268. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Let's vote. Score. With 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 17 against the proposed, the proposed conclusion was reached. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the next point of the draft law on the Police Solidarity Foundation, first reading, P.Z. No. 267 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, internal policy and national security, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. I would like the Secretary of State of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34776	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and counsel, thank you very much. Well, here's a little bit. You've received this bill on the Police Solidarity Foundation. The passing of this law has proved to be an emergency because of the growing number of officers who are suffering in the ministry, and because of the assessment of us in the ministry that those rights that the family of the dead police officers who are being executed under other regulations are not enough for the quality financial care of the families of the dead police officers. Of course, no financial compensation can compensate for what is most precious, these are human lives, but in almost all cases after the death of police officers their family is in a very difficult social situation because police officers are often the only family employees. These are all the people in power with children that show these data from the explanation of material, with children of primary or secondary school age so that after the death of these families they find themselves really in a very difficult financial situation. I'll just tell you one piece of information on which they have the right of the families of the dead police officers. This is under the Police Act, Article 98 has the right to the last paid salary of employees increased 12 times, and this was in the last case of the death of a police officer, 72 thousand 563 kuna. They have the right to compensation for funeral expenses, other normal costs and insurance policy compensation with the possibility of obtaining a family pension with support in schooling children in accordance with other regulations. Since 1991, 119 officers have been killed in the service of 119 police officers, and as a result of the trends that are present in our country, the increasing risk of police work has been seen daily by increasing exposure to the death and suffering of the services of all police officers. As a result, we believe that this law should be one of the instruments that should help families of the injured police officers to at least partially mitigate the difficult social situation in which they are found. Other laws, i.e. amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, are also being considered in the MUP in order to find legal instruments to ensure that families of police officers who suffer in the conduct of the service are provided with significantly greater material and financial rights in order to compensate for the irreparable loss of family members. I repeat again all our data and statistics have shown that it is the most common fosterers of the family, so employees who work alone in the family. The most common family members are concerned, and we expect that this law will begin to deal systematically with the problem that arises in the MUP given the extremely large number of employees, given that it is mostly workers who have passed the Homeland War, so we propose that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34777	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? Local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go. I'm sorry, I was looking at another text. That's right, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. President of the Board, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. I'm sorry about your friend, Lucine.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34778	Thank you, Mr. President. I will briefly say that the Committee supported the proposal at its 39th session held on 17 March and supported the stated position of representatives of the Government of Croatia and, given that the establishment of this foundation will formally achieve the possibility of additional support for the families of the dead police officers and the health and social care care of their family, it decided unanimously to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The draft law on the Police Solidarity Fund in the text is adopted as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34779	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to express my satisfaction with getting this bill on the benches, which is he in the first reading, and we'll probably be able to do it and fix it. My pleasure is that in this form this law was written somewhere in 2003, but given the other half, but since some of the dilemmas remained, the elections were approaching we didn't purposely want to rush this proposal. So I can say right now at the beginning that the SDP club will support the proposal of this law in its first reading and I hope that the remarks that will be made here will be accepted, and we will also try to try and fix some amendments to this law. As the secretary of state said, I don't think any of us should be talking and saying how stressful police work is, as much as it is in Croatia today in terms of the state's material capabilities, budget options are actually being paid, and I believe that we would be happy to see the cops much better paid and equipped than they are today, and I believe that the way they grow and budgets will actually not be proportionate but also faster that they will grow and support this part of the state apparatus. We all actually like to talk about the security of the country, we all like to have our streets safe, we don't know about the robbery, there's no robbery, there's no dead, but also when there's about this kind of stuff, then we're not ready to discuss them seriously and in a wide way. I think actually the debate on these topics is a topic, actually we're talking about it as a security aspect. Because the more motivated the cop is, the safer he is, both materially and related to the family, in fact, he's going to be doing his job much better. So why do I think this law must be much better than it is in a proposal like this, even though I say it is identical to almost 99% as it was in the pre-plan in 2003. For the simple reason that this House is, in fact, transferring some of its concerns or helping me to say so to those who will be needed in the police sector or segment as civil society is said, and in this sense, I think that we need to ensure that this Law makes all possible ambiguities clear. There's a lot to talk about. Most often we talk about death, most often we talk about death, but there are other stories, this as stressful work, what happens to a young man, relatively young 35, 40 years who's just been doing this stressful job for 20 years, he just comes into a situation that he can't behave anymore. We don't really have a complete solution for him. What happens is that the secretary of state said that a large number of cops are actually single, or the only ones working in the family, which happens to the wives and children you have no opportunity to say when a cop dies you don't actually have the opportunity to hire that cop's wife but here I say you have to lobby around, pray or do something else. So, these are, I could list very much, these are all segments that should ensure the degree of security, the motivation of the police themselves, and then it also implies general safety in the country. Otherwise, this model, otherwise the model of police foundations, is present in the vast majority of European countries, not only of European countries, is one form where, through the creation of certain funds, certain assets, not only of money, but also of real estate, I secure a lasting source of income, and since that is how I think it would be very important to define all things as I said. Let me take out the dilemmas that I had and that I carried out, probably somewhere in the MUP, and in 2003 somewhere at the 9th month, which were left and in this Law, I would ask the Proposer to think twice about them. First something about the board of directors, and actually the structure of bodies that manage the foundation. My question is what if a recipient of funds feels hurt in relation to another recipient of funds, whom he complains about. If the Board of Directors is a body that is, in fact, with the help of how it writes its experts, etc. The bodies make some kind of decision, so we just don't have the other step that we can complain to and who we can complain to. About the very composition of the board of directors, it seems to me, and I've had great objections and I haven't been advocacy to it, I don't think it's a good thing that on the board of directors of seven members there are four officers and three officials, I don't see any place for the clerks, I think all seven members should have been cops. I suggested then, and now I'm going to suggest that the board be formed on the basis of functions, so whether it's the Director of Police, whether there are two or three chiefs of the largest police administrations and one thing I think should be included in this Act is very important, the union. We must classify the police union no matter how many there are, gentlemen, please make a deal, vote you have the right to a union representative in one place, why. Because if the union gets into this whole story we'll all be together very easily, and especially those who run the foundation can motivate police officers to single out a year or a month or one or five or I don't know how many kunas to create a sufficient fund of those funds that are needed for the whole story to work. Whether the minister appoints a committee and whether it must be a minister. I would simply like it, given that we are still a young democracy to come into one situation, that at least when this kind of thing comes, every time a new minister doesn't change everything, we should at least make sure that this foundation is who it is. So I'm going back to the board of directors. I think that actually there should be another one on the board I would call it an independent body, where a psychologist, a sociologist, would sit, I don't know that now that I'm talking about all of this together, which, based on the criteria that they're supposed to be adopted by a regulation here, would decide how much of a family of police officers will be given means of education, social care, whether it's books, I don't know what it is, actually they'll decide but I think there's got to be one step between the one who asks or has the right to certain means to the one who makes the final decision. I just see it in an independent body that should regulate it all together. There were other dilemmas that were especially about the funds. I think that the funds that are provided here are only 100 thousand kunas, I think it could be misunderstood that it could not formulate this way, let them formulate themselves as initial funds but I would still ask the Ministry and Government if this year at least for the next 5 years that the state will allocate some 5.6 million kunas that would already be optimal when you take the bank interest then something can be shared with them. But also since Croatia has a lot of property owned by the state, I think the state might be able to give up some object used by the Ministry of Interior, or not use it, but it's being guided by it, here are the gentlemen on behalf of a better standard and help the cops we're giving up on it and we're giving it up in a trust fund, and actually when it's all so round then the state, this Parliament, the Government, the Minister, the Ministry, would close that story, then that story, that trust itself, would have to work on its own. What you can't see yet and it seems to me that you should see the question of whether there should be some kind of additional control in the foundation itself. We now have management, which is those seven people, according to this bill is everything. I don't think that's good. So, I plead, or I appeal to it, to try to see here that some of these particular competences, or division of functions, are being built up here. And in fact, in that direction, if the Proposer doesn't come out with at least part of the supplement on what I was talking about, we'll try to make a few amendments at the SDP Club and I believe they'll be acceptable to everyone. I end up asking to consider the situation, if it's okay, if this year it's 100,000 kuna, let's give ourselves another task, I know we can't say it in advance, but at least we know that it's going to lead to some optimal property of that trust for a simple reason because then it's going to be motivated enough and I don't know about some other entities not just cops but all those who have interests that police are better functioning that cops are safer and that actually these assets are accumulated in some way. So I'm finishing up, the SDP Club will support this bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34781	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Ivan Jarnjak, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34782	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club fully supports the text of the Law and praises a valuable initiative that has come to create another sense of security for police officers and their families through this foundation of police solidarity. What I'm trying to say is, I want to look back at the data that was brought here in the field of official duties and that's what 119 officers say to death. The first question is why since 91 and why not since 90 when the Croatian state was formed. Second, let me get some of my data. First of all, the official duties for police officers were also the Homeland War. And let me just say one example in 91st year of police departments formed individual units and were officially assigned to go to certain targeted battlefields and to stay there. As was the example of Vukovar, where, for example, they happened to be from the police administration of then-Varaždinska. And where there are dozens of those units left. They gave their lives in the field of service. They were sent there officially. And for the sake of history and truth, I'd like to say that there are 711 officers in the lost homeland war. Of which 146 members of the Special Police. They were all then as he prescribed the Law on Internal Affairs of an authorised official and all were on official assignments. We have to put them here. If 3586 officers were wounded in the Homeland War by 816 special police officers, we must write it down. Because they were all on official duty. Yes, there are still missing prisoners in Homeland War 44. 26 active members and 18 reserve members. But they were on official assignments. They must be covered here. And finally, according to my data in police intervention, it's totaled as on official tasks according to this as it stood, are 122 in structure, in police intervention 23rd car accident on the way to work and back 54, firearms stop 22, heart attack 17, and suicide 6. That's a total of 122. Which is why I'm saying it. Because we have to write in an explanation that many of these officers who died in the Homeland War on official duty have resolved their family status or if they are wounded, through indirect law on defenders. But I'm sorry, a lot of wounded people may not have all of them. They must be covered here and those who find themselves in difficulties that could potentially be in difficulty in helping them through it. I'm saying this because the cops couldn't get volunteer status because it was clear to everyone and loudly you weren't volunteering because you were in uniform. You were members of the Croatian police and you had to go to certain battlefields by your assignments, and therefore we have to confess to them, so we have to admit to them, that they had to, or that many of them who died in the war, which is most of them, means 711 that they must be admitted that they were meant to carry out their duties. I think it's extremely good that such a foundation is formed that such a foundation works as soon as possible because I say it's extremely important for any officer who should go anywhere and anywhere to perform his official task that he knows then that there is another form and guarantees of security for his family unless God gives him something would happen to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34783	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34784	So an incorrect allegation by an esteemed colleague of the Jarnjak that Croatian law enforcement officers could not have obtained volunteer status. In fact, according to the 97th Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and, according to the applicable law, all those who were at least 100 days or 4 months ago from 30 May 90 to 15 May 92 have volunteer status and these rights could and could benefit today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34785	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34786	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow respected state secretary, For the HSP club, this bill indicates the need for systematic resolution of the working legal and status position of the Croatian police and primarily the families of the dead police officers. How the rope spreads like that. Here I think a rope if it has a wife and children and parents. Like the broad and certainly the victims, who became disabled. Let us be aware and realistic that this law on the foundation of police solidarity will only reduce that part of the problem that is present something we will only try to solve when and at what time. Now we're discussing the first reading, we know that only 100 thousand kuna are foreseen to begin the work of this foundation. Therefore, we will support this part but we appeal and need to solve this problem systematically. Because we're not going to solve anything, so we're proposing that changes be made entirely possible and should be made to the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act for the staff of members of the Ministry of the Interior and members of the execution of sanctions. That's it. So that part of the pension bill. And the second is also to consider whether some things might be done within the law on the protection of military and civilian invalids of war because there are talking about situations where he is suffering from execution or in connection with carrying out regular activities. 'Cause watch what happens to you. If we do this for these services, such as the police, such as the armed forces, such as the execution of sanctions, we do not solve it systematically within the Ministry of Justice, then we will soon get a draft law on the foundation of military solidarity, and a bill on the foundation of the execution of sanctions. So we won't solve anything systematically. We must, we will support this that this part exists but not for these fundamental intentions. These thorough intentions mean such as the care of the family of the deceased policeman, his children, his parents, such as taking care of him when he gets sick. We have to settle this by law. And others if we don't have that kind of economic potential, then other things about schooling kids. The scholarship needs to be settled by this law, which is why I and no wonder Mr. Shime Luchin was also a minister and I'm not surprised that he supports this part. But I would have expected the same if you had systematically solved the rights of the police back then. Not that it's being dealt with now by the trust fund law. We know for ourselves how much the police have to pay. They're too many. There's no pay. How it's equipped. She's not equipped at all. And he's always in life-threatening situations. We will therefore support this part, but we ask the Government that this issue as members of the police and members of the armed forces related to their suffering and related to the protection of their families in the performance of their regular tasks must be dealt with systematically. And leave this part for those parts we won't be able to legally solve. Because if we're going to throw the weight of that problem at this law with such small initials, we're not going to do anything system-wise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34787	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34788	Thank you very much. Inaccurate information is that this problem is not systematically solved. I'd like to warn you about the law of the police where exactly what in which case and how much money is prescribed. So what's important, one thing doesn't rule out the other. If those funds are enough, you can talk about it. However, the question arises whether this country can stand out more for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34789	Thank you. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34790	Thank you very much. Here I listened very carefully to the MPs who commented on the bill. I thank you for your support. I immediately said at the beginning that the adoption of this law should be the first step in a more systematic resolution of the working-legal status of members of the Ministry of the Interior. I also absolutely agree, and we were aware that this law can only solve a small part of the problem and because of modest initial resources compared to a large number of employees and because the problems are much more complex and complex and there are many more. But that's why I said that this law would try to provide mechanisms to solve cases of death of police officers doing police work, police service. Because what Mr. Jarnjak said is true that a very large number of police officers gave their lives by laying them in the foundations of the modern Croatian state. However, the fate of the family of these defenders has been resolved by other regulations. The rights of police officers, i.e. the rights of the dead police officers and their families who died in the conduct of the service after the Homeland War, are much smaller. We're just trying to start solving the fates of this law and this extremely difficult fate of the family of those officers who were killed in the conduct of police service. I've read you the information that, those 12 salaries for the deceased, that was the last payment for the tragically dead officer, 72 grand. I repeat again that I personally looked at the data on the families of these dead police officers, all in turn, the masquerade of police officers, employees of the life force for about 40 years with children of primary school and high school age. And what Mr. Lucin said, he probably knew the same thing, most often they were the only ones in these families and employees. We have a lot of problems in the social care of these families after the tragic loss of police officers because we are aware that these 12 salaries and these other rights are absolutely not enough to at least help the further lives of these families. What I said, no one can make up for their lives, but surely the state is obliged to make further efforts to at least facilitate the material position of those families of the dead officers. And what Mr Kovacevic said, I was on the same track already talking to, both the minister and the college, and we talked about systematically proposing changes to all the laws. First of all, the Pension Insurance Act to address situations and cases like this when employees get hurt in the conduct of police service. I was also on the idea, that's also going to be discussed the possibility of putting together a few insurance policies on higher amounts without names than for, to secure a tragic case. So not to provide for employees but tragic cases where these families would get more of a tragic consequence, which would still allow them to live a more dignified life, above all, for those children. So we are absolutely aware of all the problems that exist in the police with such limited financial resources, unfortunately we are not in a good situation and this is only the first step in this attempt and the intention to start systematically and seriously address the status of police officers and to significantly improve the material situation of the family of employees who die in police service behaviour. That's what Mr. Lucin said, we're witnessing that this job is becoming more dangerous, that police officers are increasingly exposed to attacks, insults and individuals, but what's more serious and organised crime. And indeed, the demands of police officers in the fight against organised crime, but also with the most classical forms of crime, will grow bigger and bigger, the job will be increasingly demanding and will be more and more dangerous. Therefore, I repeat again, the Ministry's intention is to make this law a first step only. I hope that he will be the smallest because we are planning much more extensive and serious procedures in some other laws to gradually significantly improve the material position of the family of dead police officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34791	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on the Foundation of Police Solidarity, First Reading, Proposed Law No. 267. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The draft Law on the Police Solidarity Foundation is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. To vote. Score. Consistent with 100 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34794	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Prior to the regular local elections, the government proposes amendments to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government to improve the electoral system, in order to remove the shortcomings in the application of this law. But also to remove the complaints of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities regarding the application of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. We therefore propose this law that the existing provisions of the laws which are, in particular, Article 8. Law amending and supplementing the 2003 Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government who did not well resolve the issue of voting in the additional elections. Unless a national representation of members of national minorities is ensured in representative bodies, it shall be done in a more high-quality manner. Furthermore, Article 9b of the applicable law also provides for provisions on the possibility of the National Minority Council running its representatives in a representative body to be deleted. This law also harmonizes the electoral system with the Law on the Protection of Fundamental Data so that the election documents no longer contain a single number of citizens, but will be replaced by the number of identity cards and the place of issue. However, as the most important changes, I would like to clarify the electoral silence, hence the ban on election promotion that would continue the day before the election and on the day of the election, but only until 19 hours, so until the vote is closed, the voter's closure will be closed and then it is free to publish and evaluate which is based on the polls, but also the provisional results of the elections as they are processed. In order to ensure additional assurance of the regularity of voting in polling stations, we propose that election committees be appointed in such a way that all political groups in a particular municipality or a city in which elections are held and represented by a representative body so that the election committees are composed of members and alternate members from a majority political party or coalition and deputies, and members and deputies from a minority party or coalition at local level, while maintaining the principle that the election board president should preferably be a non-party person and, if possible, legal profession to guarantee the quality of work at the polling post itself. This ensures regularity, even stronger correctness in the vote. This law also addresses the gap created by the abolition of the provisions on the right to object in the electoral process that the Constitutional Court abolished since these provisions were not in line with the constitutional, Constitutional Court Act, but we also prescribe monetary sanctions for breach of electoral silence. So far, there has been a ban on electoral promotion, but there have been no mechanisms to punish those who violate the ban. This law further provides for a commitment in representative bodies which have increased their number of members during the term of office to ensure national representation to return to that initial number chosen and which ensures the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and a further provision that is logical but not within the law, that is to say that the term of office of the representative bodies in office ends on the day of the regular elections. We propose to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, because it represents a quality improvement in electoral legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34795	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? President of the Board, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34796	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 31st session held on 23 March 2005 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, with the Final Proposal of the Law. In the debate, the Committee supported a solution to the draft law, in particular as regards its alignment with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the provisions on list holders. After the debate, the committee unanimously, 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34797	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Mr Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34798	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the 25th session held on 23 March 2005, the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this act as an interested working body. In the debate, the committee members supported the proposed amendments and additions to this law, which estimated that the proposed solutions contribute to improving the electoral system at local level. It has been concluded that the upcoming local elections will basically be conducted by the same rules as the past, which according to the assessment of this committee is a good solution. The Committee members also supported the decision not to amend the provisions of the applicable law, which laid down that the list holder should also be the first proposed candidate on the list. An opinion is given to ensure equal representation of both genders on the lists for the selection of members of the representative body. The debate highlighted the possibility of abuse of double voting rights by members of national minorities, as this may significantly affect the results of elections in certain units of local self-government and does not reflect the will of voters in those units. In this respect, it has been assessed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should consider valid legal solutions and propose, where appropriate, amendments to the legal rules in order to remove the possibility of abuse of double voting rights. The members of the Committee agreed to the assessment in order to propose a solution to Article 6(1). The final proposal for a law by which the indication of each candidate, each of the candidates on the application list, can only be confirmed by a public notary, should be complemented in a way that that indication in addition to the public notary can be verified by the competent electoral committee. In this respect, it has been indicated that there is no public notary in a number of smaller units of local self-government, so in order to simplify the process of verification and cost reduction, it should be possible for that indication to be confirmed by the public notary by the competent electoral commission. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the following amendment. Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law behind the word "public notary" is deleted and the words "or the competent electoral commission" are added. The proposed amendment lays down the possibility that the applicant’s indication of acceptance of the application in addition to the public notary may be certified by the competent electoral commission. This simplifies the technique of carrying out the election especially in units of local self-government in which there is no public notary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34799	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club... What? ... The board of directors? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, then, Mr Furio Radin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And the Human Rights Committee today discussed this bill as an interested working body. In the debate, it was concluded that indeed the motionor accepted most of the remarks and proposals made by the Committee at its 18th session after considering an earlier version of the proposal for this law which the applicant withdrew from the parliamentary procedure. This proposal was then refused by the committee. In the case of the newly proposed text of the law, it is assessed that it should be corrected in the section relating to criminal provisions, since fines are offered in too small amounts so as to be able to act preventively in preventing violations of the law. Imagine now a candidate who, if he breaks election silence that Saturday, pays 500,00 kuna. I don't think there's gonna be any candidate who won't be tempted to give 500,00 kuna and last time speak to his voters that Saturday before the election. So that's absurd. It was better established on the committee, for example. when the candidates thought the elections would be analized because they spoke, not that they would have to pay 500,00 kuna. It's everyone willing to pay and it's absurd. The amendment was therefore proposed and the amendment with 7 votes in favour and one abstention was adopted by the next amendment. In Article 11 of the final proposal for a law, a new Article 59d is added. In paragraph 1, the term “500,00 kuna” is replaced by the term “from 5,000.00 kuna”. The following paragraph 2 is added: "a fine of 10 thousand to 100 thousand kuna will punish the infringement in paragraph 2 that becomes paragraph 3 is from 2 thousand to 20 thousand is replaced by 100 thousand to 500 thousand kuna", this is about the parties. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The amount is from 1000 to 5000 kuna is replaced by between 10 thousand and 100 thousand kuna." With the reason that the proposed amendment to increase the proposed amounts of penalties in order to act more effectively against possible violations of the law and sanction possible illegal conduct of candidates in the elections. For example, in this case a violation of electoral silence. Which is not foreseen in the text of the final draft law and should also be sanctioned. Another amendment has also been proposed to make sure that new statutes must be adopted in order to ensure guaranteed seats for national minority representatives, namely there are laws but there is no sanctions for it to be so that, without amendments to the statutes, it can also go to elections and that is to be... in the future, and some local self-governments have clearly said that they do not want to change the statutes precisely for those reasons, which in practice violates the constitutional law and violates, of course, the electoral law. The fact that there is no sanctions means there is a problem, and in Article 12. The final draft law shall be added to the new paragraph 2 which reads: "In the event that the representative body does not comply with the statutes set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Election Commission shall not confirm the electoral lists referred to in Article 15. The law", namely, has been waiting three years for these statutes to be amended. And in the end of the amendment, Article 13, Amendment 3, which in a not good enough way regulated the very subject, is deleted, as this has already been regulated by the previous amendment. The conclusion is therefore proposed to the Croatian Parliament in the end to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional or regional self-government, along with the amendments already made. This conclusion was adopted with 7 votes for and 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34801	Thank you. I'm opening a debate and we're going to have a club debate. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34802	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. When a man leaves this law then he can only say one thing, that what happened is almost incredible. For the first time, and it was also found by the secretary of state when the local elections are due to happen that Croatia will vote according to the same law as we had in the previous elections as it will in 2001. For the first time, it will be a case that we will not be able to say that some electoral engineering is due, however, it is not good. Why is it not good, because we all expected a direct selection of mayors, mayors or mayors, at last if it suits someone, then it would fit the IDS. Another thing I want to say is that the most democratic electoral system when local self-government was the one the Republic of Croatia had in 1993. It may be difficult to admit but it is indeed true, and in 1993 one half of the municipal, city, county councilors were elected directly, meaning in their election units, and one half of the council members were elected from the list. I have always claimed that I will continue to argue that it is better, for example, in a city that has 25 councilors or in Zagreb if I do not cheat 51 to choose 13 or 26 of them directly than directly elect the mayor himself. Finally, when this system of direct election of mayors is the one most likely to correspond to the IDS, we need to clearly divide the relationship between the mayor and the council and not to get one tyrant who will not be able to be controlled or restrained, at the state level on one hand, we have replaced the semi-presidential system as such by the parliamentary one, and on the local one we advocate to introduce one half-president but regardless of all that system, I will once again tell us what it is. In 1997, we elected a councilman directly, so from the list and all of them - or 25% directly means in election units, and it is better for gentlemen than this pure proportional system from 2001, which was probably introduced because of the need for coalition that often turns into unnatural alliances that are able to collapse but very little then build. It is very little wonder that we are being entrenched how the ruling coalition and, above all, HDZ is giving up on Mr Sanader being the bearer of his lists, it has been announced, then the law has been withdrawn, probably because local elections would in some way turn into parliamentary elections, so regardless of how reasonable nobody at this point is knowing how much Croatia would lose without advocating early elections would be such a single requirement if some political options on them were to suffer a great defeat. What this Law does not speak of should first and foremost be seen in the independence of the media mainly electronic, first and foremost Croatian broadcasters when elections are held. By the election, only 50 days should now enter certain quotas because the abuses of the media independence institutes are possible, some "to God's" independent polls are on the trail, in some countries, for example 30, and before 60 days until the elections, they are banned because in privatised media where owners are clearly politically committed to classification is obvious and polls help direct the electoral corps, which is at least unfair. That's the point, not the end of the election silence at 7:00, although it's a perfectly logical provision and the IDS Club certainly supports such a single standard. I want to put emphasis on the objectivity of the media, this is what must certainly be condicio son qua non, because we will all agree here that the real power in the Republic of Croatia is certainly not in this House, but above all in the leading media, Croatian broadcasting or large capital. It's not safe in some city administration where in every city I don't know from Buzet, 10 entrepreneurs, and every single one of them, we're not talking about the River, and that's what makes it almost the same or greater resources than the income of the city budget, although I'm afraid this time we're all going to have an explosion of so-called. Independent lists that all are highly politically committed and all with the aim of focusing on respectable, municipal, urban, county budgets according to some of their private interests, that is the point. And then we will probably return to the direct selection of councilors, because this system is precisely allowing this pure proportional one such a mix-up of citizens' will that we should not be surprised at all by the widest, most imaginative post-election coalitions. The worst thing for me is if that happens, that the next day the capital will rule the political life of the Republic of Croatia, and we are well on our way to doing so. Because he's far more socially insensitive, far more socially insensitive than the political parties. I will take this opportunity to express my regret for the needlessly abolished County House, but what is there is, in order for this thing to be done, the Constitution needs to be changed. What you should also know not only when there will be elections, they are held on the third week of the 5th month, it is certainly a good term. The same should already be known when the councils across the Republic of Croatia will be disbanded from municipal, urban to county. I advocate intimately that it be 10.4. And that after that we know that we are going to the elections and that we can start working openly on registering a list, i.e. running an election campaign. In Article 10(3) of our Court of Justice of the IDS Club, it is not good to quote "if more political parties have proposed a list, the objection will be considered valid when it is submitted by only one political party". We believe that all parties on the list, or not all of those coalitions, should submit the complaint together. In Article 6, I don't know if there's a need to state nationality, it certainly doesn't bother me, it's been 90 years, but it could be a standard for those environments that must be represented according to their municipal, city, county statutes, according to their minority presence. In Article 6(2), the lists shall not be allowed to have more members than the required number of members, such shall be eliminated in my court at the moment, because the lists which have fewer members than the prescribed number of 15, 21 or 41 would then not be tolerated. These are the final elections and the seriousness of the cause should be held accountable or do not go out in the elections at all. We cannot send such a message to the public so that someone can do what he likes when he logs in. Because if someone behaves that way, we can imagine what they're going to do if God doesn't get electoral legitimacy. I agree with Mr Furio Radino that fines can be even bigger. A female quota can also be represented in some way in this Law. Even though someone will say that if you're against a national plea now, why are you in favor of such a quota? Of course, it's important that the candidates are good, that they're quality and that they're fair tomorrow. Not to say successful. All in all, this Law should not be controversial, although there are a few more interesting moments. This is Article 6 which was mentioned earlier by the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government who opposes the fact that these certificates must be made public. In the last election, that wasn't the case. It shouldn't be now. One interesting amendment we got from Mr. Lesar, that members of the election board couldn't be candidates on the list. I agree with that. In the same way I can't judge, soldiers, cops, I don't know civil servants. In some ways, it should be predicted that they cannot be even commissioners of certain local environments, and the question is how fair it is to have journalists in such combinations. And journalists, just like that. Because we have a case in Istria that has become a regular practice. And it's obviously not fair for someone to use public texts or electronic media that are state-owned for "propagating" their own, say, political worldview, and thus appear on the lists. It's obviously not correct in my deep conviction, if you want to be able to, but then you need to stop doing that job, for at least six months, or freeze it in some way before the election. As regards Article 8(2), the electoral committee shall consist of the President and his alternate, and of two members and their deputies. That one member and deputy determines the majority political party and coalition, and one member and deputy determines the opposition political parties and coalitions according to the party system of the representative body, perhaps this is a better solution that has been so far, regardless of what would benefit us, but I think that when it comes to the fact that these systems are multi-party, then absolutely according to Istria, there is certainly no possibility of any abuse of voting behaviour. All in all, we will all realize that this Law is not controversial. It's something else that one promises in pre-election time, and then something else is done in power, that's what's clear. That says, perhaps, that one policy can be led in opposition, and another is simply seriousness when in power, even though the Istrians might say that the man is held to his word and the ox to the horns. But no matter what, it is certain that for the first time, it happened to us that for the first time in these local elections we are going with a de facto existing electoral code, which is a note for each commendation, although it is likely that some political options would prefer to be directly elected by the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, and the IDS would certainly add that the most honest electoral system was the one in 93 when one half of the council members were elected directly, means in their election units, and the remaining half of the party lists. And I am convinced that we will soon return to the condition of such an electoral system, which can ultimately and most representatively represent the will of a particular local environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34803	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34804	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the beginning, I will say that the SDP Representatives' Club will also support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Selection of Representatives of Units of Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, because we believe that when the Government did not have the courage to implement its electoral promise and part of its programme, which is to enable citizens to directly elect mayors, mayors and mayors, then the best solution is this which is offered here, which is that the local elections in 2005 are made according to the same model by which they were made, i.e. by which they were played in 2001, of course along with those changes, to which the legislation between others and the Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, i.e. to make those changes that I think there is a consensus, which is the issue of electoral silence, is the issue of the electoral committees. However, what we as a Club of Representatives have very serious objections to, it is in the process. At the beginning of this session, we suggested that this law go into regular procedure, so it does not go according to emergency procedure. And that's what we suggested exactly for these reasons why what happened now happened. The law, a previous law that did not even come to the plenary session but passed only by committees, was discussed, serious objections were made to that law, and then the government withdrew the law in order to give a completely different law, essentially different legislation on certain provisions, to the maximum in an urgent, urgent, urgent procedure. If what we asked for at the beginning of the session had been accepted, it would not have happened in the regular reading, and the result would perhaps or almost certainly be the same in which it would then be possible for the representatives to give their court and at the plenary session, to discuss it in the first reading, and to finally come to the second reading just like this at this session, as de facto this law came before us again not as the final proposal of the law in the second reading but as some completely new law that we subsequently re-entered into the agenda. So, it would be good, it might be a good idea to amend the Rules of Procedure if it were said that it could not be included in the same session of the Parliament twice in the agenda and both times in an urgent procedure. Then we would avoid such absurd situations and we would really allow this House to discuss proposals coming from the government. What is fundamentally changed is that, however, it allows the transparency of the election in a way that the holder of the list will remain first on the list, so that the holder of the list must also be a candidate and not that what was suggested could be one person for all election units and that one person should be the bearer of the list in the constituencies he does not know where they are, to be the bearer of the list in the constituencies he knows neither exists. This is a better solution if we don't already have a direct choice of unit leaders of local self-government then we will still have here even though they are proportionate elections we will have a highly personalised campaign and personalised elections at least as far as future leaders, so future mayors, mayors and mayors are concerned because citizens will know when they vote for a particular list and the list holder is on that list that if that list wins or coalition wins that man, that person wearing that list will also be a candidate for mayor, mayor and mayor. Of course, the law leaves the possibility that it's a rule, but if it's something, it basically means that it should be. And it's fair to the voters, I repeat, if we haven't had the courage to go to have direct elections for mayor. It has been said that there is no model that we can't find a model of how to make a direct choice law, here we get in Croatia instead of the law on the direct choice of mayor we got a book about it, so maybe by the next election we can rewrite something from this book to have a law on the direct selection of mayors. And the book says that all our neighbours have a direct choice of mayors and a large majority of the countries in the European Union and that when measuring the ratio of direct and indirect selection then it is a direct choice in significant excess, so almost 90% of the countries have a direct choice. What's specific to big countries is that it doesn't even have to be in all the provinces of direct choice, so there can be a combination of how to choose the leaders of local self-government units. So, we in the SDP hold that if it is not already so that it is good that twice the same rules take place elections as it has been shown in the parliamentary elections that the elections have been held twice, there has been a change of government and no one can make any comments that such changes in the rules have taken place. What we have an objection to the text of the law is what the Committee on Local Self-Government has also given, it is that the applicant’s obvious should not only be certified by the public notary but also by the electoral commission, so it should remain the old text of the law because it reduces the costs of people because they will not have to pay for the obvious but will not have to pay for a trip since public-book offices are mostly in county and in larger cities, they should be reached. And in the end, it's technically a question of what's the last day of the run. Public-book offices close at 15 or 17 hours, which means that those who would not be able to verify the application could not even submit the list even if the lists could be submitted up to 24 hours. Similarly, we in the SDP have the observation that there is a need to ensure that, as a result, a breach of electoral silence is ensured, hence the criminal provisions provide that the person who violates the electoral silence can earn some punishment, that it is equally necessary to ensure that Article 11(3) of the Law is implemented, which says that when drawing up the list, the applicant is obliged to take account of the principle of gender equality. So, we have this provision, we have that it has to be taken into account, but the promoters have no sanctions, so it turns out it's much worse to stick a poster near the polling station or God forbid that on Saturday preceding the election day something says to more people and that it is reported for breaking electoral silence and for that to be fined, but if someone proposes a same-sex candidate list and eventually such representative bodies are elected then nothing will happen to anyone. If this is already the constitutional category of gender equality and the Constitution requires gender equality, if the Law on Elections says that this must be taken into account, then we need to find a way to get the applicants of the lists to really take care of it. We have achieved the observed representation of both sexes here in the House, unfortunately if we look at what our representation, sexual representation and representation in the representative bodies of the local self-government unit I think we would encounter devastating results and we, as legislators, have an obligation to influence the increase in representation or to increase equal representation of both genders in local self-government units. After all, I think that right now the units of local self-government are where both sexes should make equal decisions on what is happening at the local level. You even have in France a provision that the electoral commission will not accept a candidate list on which both genders are not equally represented because they have a even number of candidates on the candidate lists. This may also be one of the options of affecting gender equality in the future. Similarly, one question or dilemma is raised, so we ask the promoter to say it in the final address. The question in Article 8 is what will happen when the position on the municipal and urban level is not identical with the position on the county level. So somewhere in the position at the local level, and on the area level, it is in the opposition that it will then determine who is the position, who is the opposition in assembling the election boards, although we think this solution is better, so that the election committees will be multilateral, multiparty that there will be a problem that sometimes the parties will not be able to agree and that someone will need to arbitration it is quite certain but those who are not then satisfied will be able to use the observer institution in that polling place and be sure that they will not be, will not be in that polling place then some, some malversions. Similarly, the debate highlighted the dilemma of Article 12 and Article 13, which is the amendment of the statutes within 15 days, few are tense deadlines, usually the statutes must be changed in two circles. So the initiative has to go, and after that there are amendments to the statutes, it is obvious that it will be very difficult for the last meetings of municipal, city and county, councils and parliaments to change the statutes as well. However, if not used, or fails to comply with the obligations set out in Article 12, then perhaps Article 13 or transitional provisions should state until the representative bodies have to amend the statutes. Therefore, if they do not change within 15 days, they shall be selected by the old number of members of the council but then they shall be bound by those councils to comply with their statutes with this Act in some period of time after the elections have been carried out. What we are ultimately trying to say as an observation is that we believe that it is not correct for voters to change this law into a tea note, so that it is practically 50, it is debated 51 days before the local elections, I do not know whether today and it will be a vote, or whether it will be a vote next week. So, if it goes another 8 days as far as it takes from the announcement, somewhere practically a few days before the election is called will be famous, well-known electoral rules, because it does not change significantly it will not be such a big problem, it would be a much bigger problem if that old law that was withdrawn last week where the holder of the list could be, could be the same person but it would be a good deal that in the future and for local elections, electoral legislation such as for parliamentary elections must be adopted in this House at least a year before holding regular elections. It is not correct that what we take for granted as a right to someone else is not ready to give. So, if one electoral legislation must be passed within one period then it is quite certain that it should be for local elections. The local elections for citizens are not less important than the parliamentary elections, and it was also shown by the last... research where even citizens perceive local elections, sometimes more important than parliamentary elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in addition to these remarks, the suggestions I made from the SDP's Club of Representatives will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34805	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34806	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I will begin with a question that has no direct connection to the text of the law but has to do with its application. In this respect, Articles 12 and 13 shall oblige the units of local self-government to comply with their statutes with this amended law within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Today is March 23rd, and only on the condition that, with the adopted text of the Law of the National Journal, they come out tonight without the Government calling the elections before April 15th, it is possible to leave such a provision in the law because otherwise I ask you to understand the following. No one in Croatia knows at this time, and those who know do not want to say when local elections will be held. The day of the elections, representative bodies of municipalities, cities and counties are disbanded. From that moment on, there is no one else to align the statutes. In order for the May 15th elections to be held under these amendments and additions to the Law. But also because of other obligations that the representative bodies have and are warning me especially because of the adoption of spatial plans where the public debates are over. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State to give him information on whether he knows which date the government will call the elections, so which date will be disbanded representative bodies because I hope it does not fall within the military secret or the secret of national security to allow people on the ground to make the necessary decisions before disbanding all municipal councils, city councils and county councils. In addition to repeating if the election will be called before the 15th and that is the last day, 15. , 3 / 15 5. I fear it will not be possible to comply with the statutes in any municipality in particular where amendments to the statutes are provided for in the first and second readings, therefore, in two readings. It's about the very text of the law and procedure. I've got two bad grades and two good grades. I'll start with the bad ones. I really find it inadmissible that just 50 days before the election, we change the electoral law no matter what we change in it. We are not correct according to the members of the representative bodies in municipalities, cities and counties because the Parliament said about its elections at least a year before the election no electoral rules can be changed, but when it comes to councils, cities and counties, we did not give such a delay and we are playing with their election cycle on the eve of the elections. So whether it is written or not, I would ask that this be the last time that we change anything in the Election Law before the elections themselves is not good, especially because these amendments of the Law do not solve the problem of selecting members of national minorities in terms of the number of determining their number if there is a difference between the voter list and the census and it is the basis for calculating the number of members of the representative body of a national minority. See Article 20(7). Constitutional law, Articles 12 and 13 of these amendments and additions and let someone explain to me how this will be done technically. And that's what we've been warning all along, we've all been keeping quiet, and I'm afraid this election, Article 20, point 7, and this article 12 and 13 won't be feasible because they're impossible. Second, which is not good. I go to elections without direct choices. I will remind you that the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in March last year, precisely the 10th said that the Club of Representatives of the HDZ 2000. The parliament was given a bill that planned to introduce direct elections in municipalities, cities and counties. So, in 2000, the HDZ representative club removed all dilemmas about how to direct elections and possible co-habitation of leaders with a representative body if they were from different political options. In 2001, the amendment was supported by the opposition HDZ by the Croatian People's Party on the introduction of direct elections. In 2003, when the Croatian People's Party re-proposes the Law in direct elections then HDZ supports direct elections. In December 2003, Prime Minister Sanader, an opening speech, the government's programme said it would mention the introduction of direct elections. In March of last year, when the government was manifested on our proposal that we re-proposed to the Parliament, which was signed on 26 March last year, it reads: "Finally: the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that several draft drafts of electoral laws are being drawn up and we believe that the rules of which will soon be concluded will contain an improvement in technical, implementing provisions regarding the conduct of the elections itself and will contain complete and quality solutions to the essential issues of the electoral system." This is signed by Prime Minister Sanader on 26 March last year. If it's soon and soon 12 months, and then the law was at the end of the draft, and it came to the Parliament in March this year, then I admit that that promise of direct elections I understood for 2005 but the government meant 2050, so I accept the delay of those 45 years. What is good in this bill really well that it gave up the proposal that the holder of the list should not be a candidate on the list and that would be corrected by colleagues who had previously spoken because if that provision remained one man could not only be the bearer of all the lists in all municipalities, cities and counties of one party but one person could happen to carry a list of more parties in all municipalities. Maybe all of them. Well, that's good, too. But it's especially important that it's given up because it's nothing more than a voter's delusion and therefore it's given up on election rabbits, horses and donkeys who pulled the lists and weren't candidates. And it's good that in one election we don't offer voters election rabbits, horses or donkeys because then we make donkeys out of them. It is also a good move that the election board could be given party, opposition, or ruling at local level. We welcome that. Just as it is, and as proven in this second Act, the Amending of the Law on Persuasion that it is finally understood that the problem of over-numbered voters in the electoral lists cannot be solved by electoral legislation because it first comes from experience and from the Law on residence, and from the Law on Election Lists and only at the end of election laws. And those solutions offered by the law are good, but I am afraid precisely because of the "cate notes" in which we are in which we will not be able to apply them for these local elections and I am sorry that I do not have the possibility of having the law of the government's proposal to even consider our bill on the list of voters not included in the agenda of this session, unfortunately because then we would have the opportunity to see the whole. And as for business provisions, sometimes smart proposals are more important than the formalism of the Rules of Procedure. And only the text of Law Four suggestions. Article 6 would really be good if the applicant’s indication could also be verified by the electoral commission, not exclusively by the public notary. Also, the issue in Article 8 of the electoral committees, which is why I have given the amendment, we are going with a provision that candidates on the list cannot be members of the electoral committees or vice versa because we do not have such provisions in the law so far. The introduction of this would be good because in all others we have, in all others we have only in this we do not have, so if you accept the principle of democratic relations that the candidate cannot count the votes let's write it down. Third, the right to object to this law provides for political parties, candidates of 100 voters or 5% of voters, I have given the amendment that we must read the law as a whole. Namely, another category of list promoters is in the law, and these are associations of national minorities when it comes to selecting representatives of national minorities. The Association of National Minorities is an official promoter, may be a candidate pardon or a list of candidates, so I think that in Article 10 of the State Secretary and should give them the right to object because he is both a legitimate candidate or applicant for the list of candidates. That's why I gave the amendment. Article 13, I failed to understand multiple readings, and I warn that it is the basis for the implementation of Article 20, point 7. The law on the rights of national minorities. I leave that problem to the government to solve it however he knows and wants. With the adoption of this amendment that has been given so far and which I have now explained and submitted earlier, the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this Law but only this time and last time because we also respect the right to demand always. The election rules change at least 12 months before the elections, and that was one of the reasons why our bill's proposal in the local self-government elections appeared 14 months before the local elections, knowing that we would wait two months for the agenda, and the debate on it was just in March last year. So at that time, we stuck to our principled attitude when we made our proposal. And I repeat and ask Mr. Secretary of State to inform the Croatian public especially the main people in municipalities, cities and counties whether or not to know what day of the Lord this year will be decided on the disbanding of the present representative bodies when they can no longer make decisions and not even align their statutes with this Act where we impose a deadline of 15 days on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34807	Thank you very much. Now we'll have a short break by 3:00. The first is Mr. Milorad Pupovac, SDSS Club, and then Mr. Zlatko Kramarić on behalf of the HSLS Club, not that of HSLS and DC. There's still 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 MPs. Party at 14.35 p.m. We're moving on. On behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34809	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We believe it is good that the government has accepted practically all previous proposals for amending the election law for representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. Especially those treated differently by members of national minorities compared to the total population. For example. The fact that members of national minorities were required to be apart from residence and therefore to live what was made by changes in 2003. And that this provision on residence is no longer available, and of course we feel that there has been a good change in those provisions that allowed national minority councils to propose candidates for the representative bodies of the units of local administration and self-government. This was certainly an awkward and totally unacceptable proposal for people elected in the direct elections to be some kind of workers of municipal, urban and county councils, and their chieftains to now be in a position to propose candidates for the same councils, or tomorrow's headships. This is an opportunity to suggest themselves or, as some people have argued, as if the old assembly of some municipality council is in a position to suggest itself or to propose a list for a new assembly. Which, of course, is illogical and the legislator has seen it and quickly changed it. In that sense, it's good. It is also good that some weaknesses have been avoided about proposing candidates for additional elections for representatives of national minorities, but what remains as a drawback and what we have discussed today on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and what we expect this Assembly to accept after the amendments that have been tabled. It's next. The first article of the 12th Amendment Act, as proposed, is unacceptable. Namely it's about the next one. It is that many units of local and regional self-government did not comply with their statutes with the current constitutional law. As regards constitutional law in a series of its provisions, it lays down the conditions under which and how the representation of minority members is guaranteed, both in representative bodies and in headships. It happened to us that although the deadline set by the state-run central state administration office for the same units to comply with their statutes, that deadline was said they did not do so we do not know how many did it and how many did not. There is concern that one good part of it has not done so, and we believe that that basic paragraph of Article 12 of these amendments should be added to another item in which it will clearly stand, that unless units of local and regional self-government ensure adequate changes in accordance with the constitutional law in their statutes that they cannot implement and organise elections. I'll state the reasons why we think so and why it was discussed on the board this morning. Namely, the thing can't be drawn at the calendardas grekas. The matter cannot be drawn so that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in something that it is most likely not to be implemented. The following happened after the last elections in 2001, many of the chapters were formed against the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, the councils were representatives of minorities in the municipal councils but not in the heads, this could only be ensured if the party coalition was secured. The constitutional law does not say that representation is provided to party coalitions. It's being provided on the basis of a legal mechanism. It did not happen that the ministry was wrong to give consent to confirm such decisions to form heads. It was supposed to undo them. And return them to the same chieftains to comply with the Constitutional Law. Then the SDSS in Knin and, HDZ Knin or HDZ in Sibenik County, and the SDSS in Sibenik County should at all discuss to ensure that the coalition net is a matter of law. And any other party. It was about HSP or anyone else. It wouldn't have happened to us, that's what I'm obliged to say from this pay phone, to see the scale of the consequences. It could not have happened that in one municipality word to Plitvice Lakes after the election councils agreed in this case of the SDSS, three HDZ councillors do not know how many but most councillors. They ensure that they form not only a majority but will form a headship, which was in line with the logic of the Constitutional Law and then the intervention of individual parties who are unhappy with such solutions go to an influential place with the bishop and seek to prevent such a type of coalition. And that's what happens. Minorities cannot then participate in the headship, because there is a higher reason that is higher than the law. Not to say that this same bishop is telling us today about what we do. There are no people outside the law. Or above the law. For this reason, at that level at that vital level, we need to say what needs to be said. And that's the law. And not that what's going on is that only a political contract can ensure the validity of the law. And we are in that sense against such logic, and we are in favour of the political treaty to suit the achievement of the law but not to be a condition for the achievement of the law. As some would like. In that sense, we ask that this amendment be accepted. And those municipalities, cities, counties that up to 15. 4. they do not ensure that they are considered unprepared that they have not created assumptions that the elections are held. And send a clear message. There's still plenty of time to do that. A different matter with representation of members of national minorities. So far, the practice has been about the following. The additional elections if they were organised would then show members of the national minorities have 30% in the voter lists. In other words, 30% of the municipal council should be represented with members of national minorities. In the first regular elections, 10% of such seats are secured and 20% are not secured. Additional elections are being discussed, and if the 20% is five seats, then these 5 places are not secured from the total number of what should be made up of the population in relation to the municipal, city or county council, but rather the figure, therefore, is short. If the municipal council counted 15 seats and 6 seats for minorities should be secured and only 3, right in the regular elections, then the following happens simply to add another number that does not correspond to what is 30% but ultimately it is only 20%. And that needs to be avoided. Namely, there is no guarantee of proportional representation where it is prescribed. And it's been a practice so far. And finally another thing that seems important to us. It is very important to strictly ensure that the list of voters who are the basis and for representation of members of national minorities, but at the same time the list of voters is the basis for determining the status of individual municipalities. The municipalities that have below 3,000 voters do not have the right to headship. The municipalities that have over 3,000 voters have the right to form a municipal headship. We have dealt with this in practice so far, but given the attempts to review the list of voters who are being announced and where certain preparations are already being made and in the law that will be in the discussion later, the Law on residence is discussed about the possibilities of such a revision with an uncritical, uncontrollable revision, for many municipalities it can mean, in an important sense, a change in their status and, of course, a change in the principles by which the representation of members of national minorities will be guaranteed. We'll talk about it, of course, about the law, because it's even more sensitive than anything I've ever talked about. Now allow me, therefore, to point out that if the municipalities, cities and counties did not ensure the compliance of their statutes with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as far as the SDSS Club is concerned, they would be deemed not to have created assumptions for the regular holding of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34810	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to say that the HSS will support the proposal to amend these laws even if this minimalism is not fully and safely satisfied. However, these shifts that happened in the electoral silence that it would actually only last until the voter's closing under the membership of the electoral committees where we actually made a move and avoided doubts about the credibility of the elections if we also had party observers involved in the elections. Also, when defining the right to vote for national minorities, data secrecy and so on, we estimate that there is sufficient reason to support the amendments to this law by assessing that this small shift, however unspective, is still a shift. Of course, however, we are not satisfied with the fact that this law has arrived in the procedure of an emergency procedure, so it has been withdrawn in an urgent way, so we have received it again by emergency procedure. It is obvious that because we have thought too long about how to approach amendments to electoral legislation, we will still have more voters than citizens. We will continue to have the State Election Commission in which judges will be held. We will take away valuable time from them, instead of having them deal with the judiciary that is our painful point in Croatia, we are constantly talking about it. And since the permanent composition of the Electoral Commission, there is obviously nothing new through this law. We estimate in the HSS that it is a big mistake of electoral legislation that we also have election presidents regulated through special legislation, parliamentary elections through special elections, and so on these local elections rather than having one electoral law regardless of the form of elections that takes place in Croatia. Compared to this undefined area in the legislation, there are also numerous cracks in the State Election Commission that are almost in the power of the law. However, this is an opportunity for us to get better in this next period, so we in the HSS propose to deal more seriously with legislation immediately after the local elections are over so that these next elections come with a single legal standard that is high-quality. And above all, we stress how important it is that elections are regulated through one law. However, our support for this law will only be conditioned by one fact, which is that we are not satisfied that the indication of candidates who accept to be on the election list must be certified by the public notary. We think it's enough to be done with the election committee. That way we'll speed up the procedure. In this way, we will cut costs and there is no reason for the applicant not to accept this amendment, which came from various clubs in the form of amendments. If that remark occurs, these amendments will be accepted and we will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34812	I'd like to inform you that in 15 and 28 it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. On behalf of the Club of HSLS, LS and DC, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. By who knows which times we will have to realise that there is no political party, the politician who before some elections promises no radical reform of local self-government and administration. Our mouths are full of promises, but when we get into a situation where these promises and in some way we realize then we either give up or do our old good work for a minute to 12 and then it's no wonder that we're stealing a whole series of mistakes, a whole series of failures, misunderstandings, and what's normally happened, unfortunately, this time. The policy of the final act is not good. It is not good that someone has just been today and talked about that in some developed parliamentary democracies it would not be possible, some times it is not possible for them to call together on a law twice, and we have that in the same session that we have a situation to discuss that something is being submitted and then give up because some things have not been accepted by the public in the best way, and then we are again offered a law that we now have to vote on but is not too much of a room for manoeuvre. Some have already warned of this very fact that even some articles of this law are not because someone does not want them but are actually impossible to theoretically and let alone practically implement them. So let's say the alignment of the statutes, that's almost impossible. You must know that the largest number of units of local self-government and administration have possibly another council that seems to me if I remember the law well, that the representative bodies of the local self-government units are disbanding 60 or 30 days before that. 60 has already passed, so we can expect a break sometime between April 10th and April 15th. And now I'm really asking you how to put it, let's say, the Implementing Statutes, in line with this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. It certainly isn't good, it just causes so much one, every time it seems to us that it's the last time and that's exactly how we do it in good faith that this is the last time, but unfortunately this is happening to us, it's become our practice and we need to be honest. This is not only true for this House's assembly. And in the last session of Parliament, unfortunately some logical solutions have given up, and if we had accepted those solutions today, we would not have discussed them here, nor would we have mentioned them. Unfortunately, it gave up the direct election for the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor. In some ways I participated in these talks, and these talks always ended with the majorisation that the four parties of the then coalition were, or were against, direct elections for mayors, and the two were for. HNS and LS insisted on 2001 in the direct selection of mayors. So, I'm saying it's that self-criticism, or not as much self-criticism as some principle of honesty in politics, and it's good to mention it, because this is how we actually play out with voters, voters, but we also have to admit to ourselves that we're from some of the solutions that we've had and the mandate and the political will was behind us, we had legitimacy and it could be done, but unfortunately it didn't. But that doesn't mean, it doesn't amnest these others who come to and also their mouths were full of promises, they were talking about the direct choice of mayor. Even in the last term of Parliament, it was acting that way, it voted. There is indeed one such attitude in the Government program, although later on, we heard from the same ranks that it is very difficult to find 500 quality people who could withstand this very direct check and that this is one reason why the inability to find quality people to give up such a solution of this law. I think it simply does not stand, and I deeply believe that everyone, in every unit, and unfortunately there are too many and yesterday we established 9 new ones, is not exactly able to understand whether the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia can withstand such a large number of municipalities, cities and counties. Then there will probably be some recommendation of the European Union again, and then we will have to go to regionalisation, so we will have to go to a reduction in the number of cities, counties and municipalities, and what I think is most tragic is actually this monotypic approach that you have no difference between a municipality with a thousand inhabitants and large Croatian cities. It's exactly the same principles that apply at all levels. That's not good either. I'm constantly quoting the 1895 law, which even then, so 110 years ago, was a very good distinction between the cities of the first, second and third species. Here we are in 2005. We don't have the strength to make one such step. But one such set of laws can't be written by individuals, they can't write by MPs, but the State Department of State would have to be able to do that. When I said, or normally, when something like this is done in a hurry that happens then it is almost impossible to imagine that this draft law on amendments and additions does not, for example, respect the Constitutional Court's decision of 29 May 2001 when it was established after the elections in one small place of Brestovac if I am not mistaken, when the HSS filed a constitutional action, where the Constitutional Court found that the methodology by which the number of mandates in the local elections are calculated, which is prescribed in Article 23(2) of this Law, was not in accordance with the general rules of Dont's method for calculating the votes of the mandate because it leads to the possibility of a so-called occurrence. Excessive mandates. And based on this decision of the Constitutional Court, the Croatian Parliament stopped the Law on Elections for MPs, and parliamentary elections were held in 2003 by applying the general rules of the Dont method. It is amazing to say that you are also predicting decisions of the Constitutional Court, simply ignoring them and that this element is not incorporated into this amendment and supplemental law. It's a big, big failure. Again, we will also boast how well it was to give up that return to the rules of the 1997 game when one man could be the bearer of all the lists and thus actually manipulated the public and since the pressure of the public when the first draft came out, before the bill was such that then the proposer had to give it up, that's good. That's good, but the same thing is still showing that there's still one great uncertainty of the proposings, the uncertainty of political majority decisions, the political majority is still very insecure, and then certain parts of the parliamentary majority are allowed to go along with these proposals of the law, and, let's just say, again, the possibility of direct elections have been completely put aside. Yet some here have pointed out it is partly and true, that although when the holder of the list must also be a candidate, in some way there is some personalisation of these choices, but it is still far from those opportunities which still the Law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors offers a team more which in our environment there is no one country and now I really am not, I do not like to be compromised because by compatriation something proves but even Republika Srpska is actually in some way having a direct choice of mayor. For example, in the Republic of Croatia, in 2005, such an opportunity is given up. Then this story with the residence how to figure it out. GONG has strongly protested, says it is unclear who within which deadline will be... the list of residents with changes registered in the last list of voters of the unit, which would in some way be a prerequisite for calling the election. You see, we had a census in 2001, today is 2005, I think enough time has passed that could have been brought together a long time ago, and that these are really pretty important things. I'm just going to show you in one of the last examples that it doesn't have to have any international conjecture that then the international public has to get excited and that anyone is being discriminated against. I'm going to give you an example that up to one month, a month and a half in one small place near Osijek, a referendum was called on whether or not a regional deposit was needed in that place, and then it was concluded that the referendum failed because 50% of the population, voters did not respond to the referendum, and how to respond when 400 of our citizens, who are still registered to have a residence, were long not living in that place, in Antunovac, yes. It has no implications for international relations, for any discrimination against any national minority, it is a fact that we have to harmonise ourselves, and we can call such referendums, it is a life issue not only for that place that can have the right to an ecological rent, it is a problem for the two counties that would get the opportunity to delay the garbage, the problem of garbage is also a problem that these negotiations to enter the European Union are plagued by, and no referendum will succeed precisely because 400 people cannot in any way live there it is generally known but unfortunately that register is still in force. And each time we will call a referendum and this referendum will fail for one banal reason and that is why it is indeed high time for Croatia to make a certain international agreement with these neighbouring countries that would finally resolve this double residence in the most successful way. I think it is possible, not to struggle like this, and then we have the impression that some decisions are made under the pressure of the public or certain partners within this parliamentary majority rather than simply the life of us, I have given one of these seemingly banal examples, but this is indeed an example that greatly determines future life in the areas of eastern Croatia in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. So I hope that you will put this method of increasing the vote or decision of the Constitutional Court of 29 May 2001 into this Act that you will take care of it, that you will think about just all the elements that are related to your residence not in this political way but in this very life-real way and that it is too late to have a quality set of laws in the area of local self-government but that indeed this administration must not leave us without such a law for some of the next elections, and that this really is not any political question of this or that parliamentary majority rather than that it is really in the function of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is generally known that without increasing the participation of citizens, and yet the participation of citizens is easier to happen at the lowest level of the municipality, city or county, they should be allowed to do so. And what Pupovac was talking about earlier, it just appeared when he didn't want to listen, or accept amendments that were given to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities when it really tried to point out all the implications that would happen and that these implications that concern not only representations which are right and what we voted for in representative bodies then those implications that result from being represented in the executive body that these are actually solutions that are at least comprehensible that are far from civil rights, even less rights of national minorities than simply if they are just left behind from cases to cases and then a normal colleague of Pupovac who asks that reality be brought into line with the laws, but the reality is sometimes to say so crueler, or to say maybe a few times more just than some of our decisions that we have made, again in some of the time we have to open up the process. Well, then just to have something in our hand but not to really think about how all those solutions can have negative implications for real life. But I say in deep faith and the hope that these two amendments, there are more of these that I have submitted here, I hope that the proponent with due care will respect them, but I won't be pleased even though we're going to give a vote, we have nowhere to go, there's no big room for maneuvering, but that's far from what we'd be pleased with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34814	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Jaksa Marasovic please go first.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34815	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kramaric said about this if I could repeat it: "...we have established 9 new municipalities" I think Mr. Kramaric prejudges and he, as a multi-year parliamentary representative, would have to know that without a vote, nothing was established. And since these aren't the ruling majority here, I don't think we're going to find that out today.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34816	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34817	I'm very glad to see that Mr. Kramarić spoke at the pay phone downstairs, and I have to say the second is that we will correct two incorrect allegations. The first is speaking of a referendum that was conducted says in a small place, it is the place of Antunovac, and it is not a small place, it is a large village. Secondly, he says that people in Croatia are tormented by the disposal of garbage for entering the European Union, certainly not because of their entry into the European Union, but because of the disposal of garbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34818	Thank you very much. At the gallery in the Croatian Parliament are students of the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb, and welcome them. Thank you very much. Let's move on, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34819	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the proposed regulation, the proposed Law, in the form that we received before the debate on its final proposal. And I'd like to point out in the introduction on behalf of the club and about most of the debates we've heard on behalf of the clubs and on this pay phone and on all those criticisms and remarks, in the end line of the club, but also the promoter of why some pre-election promises have been given up. Which is why it is not going or going towards the personalisation of the elections in terms of both the mayors and mayors and the head of the public at the level of the municipalities. Not wanting to pollemize, but I would like to say that this is really important matter, important from a constitutional and legal point of view, in a formal and material sense. In a formal sense, the organic law is, therefore, unequivocally under Article 82. These regulations or regulations governing this matter are adopted by the majority of the total number of parliamentary representatives but relating to the structure and in general the legal regulation of local self-government and its constitutional position, I think it is necessary to stress the provision of Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that the right to self-government is exercised through local or regional regional representative bodies, so I repeat representative bodies that are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct equal and general voting rights. I have read this constitutional provision and for this reason not only to highlight the constitutional importance of this matter which is uncontested, unequivocal, but precisely because of those legal opinions and expert opinions that came from representatives of clubs with, clubs that actually proposed other times of regulation, but in fact their position was also correct from the constitutional point of view, that if a change is to be made deeply within the framework of electoral legislation in terms of the personalisation of local elections it would surely require at least a good analysis of the constitutional provisions, if not an amendment to the Constitution, so that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia would make some consideration or exercise of the right to direct elections as we today had the opportunity to hear how they should be set up, so I conclude with that, in this way, or in the proposed way, that an absolute proposal would be acceptable, and that more radical action in terms of this legislation would need to be promoted with a constitutional perspective. Furthermore, as regards the specific provisions of the Law itself, the most important newspaper is the proposal that was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure, of course, that it gave up on the holder of the list, that it accepted the concept that it was actually the first one on the list, and that in this sense we could be determined according to the Law, that it was both public and transparent and the electoral body in this sense can even be treated as a personalisation of the elections at the county, municipal or city level. On the other hand, the provisions in that previous or first proposal were deleted, either in a sense or in a sense, and they tried to regulate the residence, i.e. the residence in the very sense of passive, or of active electoral law, and in my judgment, is a good solution or a better solution is to make it the subject of another law, a law that will immediately follow this into the parliamentary procedure. And not to propose a solution to this law. As far as the status of national minorities and the position of national minorities is concerned, I think it is entirely in the proposal of this Act that the constitutional law governing that matter is adopted. I would point out that the protection of personal data as needed in the segment of this law and the protection of personal data was also accepted as a concept as a solution. Furthermore, the electoral silence that remained in this bill regarding all the proposals we had, which appeared to us as a problem in the last presidential elections, so all of them were accepted, all of them and the remarks and the new solutions we see now in this Law. As for the composition of election committees, we also see the possibility of appointment by observers parties in the resolution of the law itself, so a better quality solution. And now, at the end of two of these provisions that may have been crystallized in previous discussions as "and the slowest", so the harmonisation of the statutes as general acts of the units of local self-government after the passed law is indeed 15 days. It is, of course, a deadline that is not relatively but certainly short and within 15 days in order to comply with the statutes themselves on the ground, what is said immediately, relently or urgently to approach the preparations of these amendments, but then, but also in that sense, the second question is, how far should that deadline be, that it should be optimal, and that it meets all that this bill should, in the pre-election time, be resolved. I would like to say that it may be too short a period of 15 days, but the deadline that has been in practice so far has indeed been an obligation and after the entry into force of the Law of People on the ground or in units of local self-government will, of course, have to make an effort to comply with their statutes with the provisions of the Law that will enter into force. The solution that we support is also applied, so that by making a decision to call elections, the dissipating representative bodies that are now existing, which are formed at the level of units of local self-government, which is an acceptable solution and which solution I would dare say more quality than perhaps some other solutions that are not so clear or precise. But now, at the time of the election, that is, making a decision to call the elections, it is also the legal consequence of making such a decision. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposed amendment and addition of the Law. It is also aware of the fact that in this area, in this issue one demanding issue, both from the constitutional and legal aspect of legislation, but also from the importance of local self-government units, and what this law means in terms of not only choice, but also the functioning of local and regional self-government units on the ground, these are one of the most important laws and, in that sense, it is sometimes very and difficult to make optimal or best possible solutions, if they are at all the best possible solutions and have. Because life is particularly concrete in the field and changes, and circumstances change, and it is very difficult sometimes to hit a legal solution that, as a regulation, as a general standard, will respond to everything that needs to be answered in specific life situations. But we support the bill of course. We think that there are quality solutions, that it is indeed more quality than those proposals we had in the previous procedure. And for some new concept new solutions in terms of elections for the representative bodies of the unit of regional and local self-government, I would dare say not if it weren't for mature weather, for these things is always mature, but it will be necessary both from the constitutional and legal aspect and from the aspect of a broader debate to create one climate, and perhaps also in society to make it legal, legal or appropriate law-making and to resolve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34820	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesasr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34821	Thank you very much. Well, there's only one who blames my fellow Tomljanovic for correcting it. Namely, he said the constitution should be amended to introduce a direct election institute in local and regional self-government. That's just not true. And as proof of that, I offer an explanation of the bill and a call for the constitutional basis of 2000. HDZ Club. The second proof of this is the Government Programme on 23 December 2003. And the government's third statement in March last year on our proposal when there was no delay in constitutional possibility of such changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34822	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34823	My colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure in a way that did not correct my incorrect claim, because what he said was that I said and that's true, he corrected a potentially incorrect legal opinion. So you have now abused exactly as the chairman often explains it. That's a legal opinion, you can't correct an opinion, and neither can mine, nor anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34824	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34825	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was adopted in 2002, members of national minorities were guaranteed the right to be represented in units of local self-government and administration according to their representation in the general population. At that time, units of local self-government were obliged to comply with their statutes, and where the law was not granted, additional elections had to be carried out. For the sake of additional elections, the Act on Elections for the members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government and administrations has been updated quickly when I say the law was passed by emergency procedure as we are trying to and this one was adopted by an emergency procedure and then a series was made to say inconsistencies or inconsistencies, above all, with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. That is how article b. is really crawling with a lot of discrepancies where the right to propose candidates for representative bodies has been extended, not only to associations but also to the council on what a colleague of Pupovac was talking about here, so I am not going to talk about it in particular. Then, it was automatically introduced and special lists because it was not clear that Article 9 exclusively refers to the additional elections and thus opened the dilemma of whether minority representatives would be elected from political lists and independent lists or whether they would be selected from these additional lists and who would eventually be selected. There was also one term in which it wanted to expand completely to all voters, i.e. to the entire population of the population, and they have a place of residence, which, in practice, led to an irregular position with other citizens compared to other minorities in 2003. In particular, Article 8 was disputed, which again took away the general right to vote precisely to members of national minorities if they normally wanted to protect their identity and if they wanted to define themselves exclusively as minorities. I think that these changes offered by the National Minority Club can be supported because everything I have warned myself about is corrected by being normally deleted as legislators of the National Minority Council, a clearer Article 8 is defined which clearly now tells who is voting and how it is voted in the event of the additional elections. What we have observations about, and what some of my colleagues have already been here and had observations about, is an observation of a list by a public notary. I think the committees did it well and this is just extra spending and already such small funds that both parties and independent representatives have for the election. Similarly, I think that perhaps a better definition of promotion should be made, because although it is defined by the law that both candidates of political parties and candidates from independent lists have the right to present and explain their programme unfortunately often waste away from the mind that we have different media, that we have media owned by local self-government, we have public television, we have private or private media, which certainly leads to the ambiguity of individual rights both for the media and for candidates who normally enter the campaign. I would especially like to refer to Article 13, he is also mentioned here. I think it is unnecessary here and I will support those who have proposed to delete this article because unless there is a harmonisation of this supplement now proposed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities it is clear that the number defined by the Statute of a municipality or city is clearly chosen and further by the Constitutional Law is prescribed that more national or national structure will be chosen. Because if we keep this article in advance, we already define that we are going to the additional elections and I am afraid that there is enough Article 12 to be called upon to be carried out under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is why we will avoid saying that we have yet to have one additional election in advance because it has also been shown in the last term that in fact I could still think of enough from the list of political or independent representatives could remove enough members, or enough council members who have satisfied the national structure. The National Minorities Club, with all these remarks, will certainly support those who have given amendments both to campaign financing, both on the issue of promotion and we will support and certainly this law because it has just brought a lot of clarity and quality are defined as saying that voting and candidateing are minority candidates and I think the club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34826	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. He's gone. Mr. Korenik's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrades and colleagues, Secretary of State! I must admit that I expected this law to come much earlier in the procedure and repeats what every government unfortunately does, each majority in the House, to go directly before the elections with changes to the Electoral Law. We can accept that because the element of surprise can be relatively good, but it seems to me that there are no too many surprises here in this law, but there is no too much progress. Unfortunately, it also shows itself here and proves that there is often one thing to talk about when in opposition and the other one to talk and work when you're in power. In some cases, we may find that justifiable because when you are in power you have more responsibility, you see the real situation. However, the government proposed to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament adopted a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2003-2007 on page 29 of the "State Administration" will introduce a system of direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors. It seems to me that this is one step back, because I remember those bile debates in the Parliament when the former government was accused of not wanting to implement something she didn't then put into her program, but here I don't see any reason besides the fear of such a thing being done. It is clear to me that large parties are most often not responsible for going to direct elections because then, among their members, there can be too many strong people, people who may be less able to control themselves than they can through the electoral system. This is quite clear and we can accept that HDZ is afraid of strong people in its ranks. Or on the other hand, he fears that there are not enough strong people in his ranks, especially given the unpopular moves that the government has made, in the way that the government has failed, but together with the parliamentary majority has promised too much, unfortunately too little to achieve. Let's go to the law itself. Already, several colleagues have responded to Article 6 where there are indications that they need to be with public notebooks. I'm a bit of an effort, and I've calculated it very simply. On 527 municipalities, cities and counties that exist in the Republic of Croatia should be on average only five lists with an average of 20 people on the list. The entire cost will be approximately less than 3 million kunas that will earn one small part of the state and most of the public records. If we want to prevent one round of people from running and participating in an election procedure, it is more emphasized that we have public notebooks mostly in the headquarters of former municipalities. So these are mostly city centers now. Rare are the counties where you have a public notary and in some municipality, these are usually some larger municipalities. We have the same experience, and that's past previous choices. We have well-paid election committees, highly well-paid election commissions, I'm sorry, but these commissions will be paid extremely well now, so let's do something for that money and get it done. There are mostly judges, everyone else, I wonder what these judges are, while in the election committees, unfortunately the trial in the Republic of Croatia is well stopped, and in this sense I would expect in this sense a little more elasticity of this government because we have enough in the state administration, in all other bodies of lawyers and people related to professions that can be in election committees, and a lot of backlogs in the judiciary will also be extended in this way. With all due respect, there is no doubt that the judges are doing this job well, however, why not give the opportunity, there are several amendments and I have given one with my colleague Pavicic-Vukicevic in that sense because it seems to me that election commissions have their regular time, during the running process, and what is most important is free of charge. We also have a good part of the units of local self-government that have also organised local administration elections for rationalization, meaning for the councils of local committees precisely because of saving with elections for local and regional self-government. And there's an even greater cost in such small environments, for such councils of local committees that they have to go to confirm signatures with public notebooks. I'm sorry, but this doesn't seem like a good solution to me, and I'm sure we should adopt this amendment. The second thing is Article 8 when it comes to the composition of election committees. I don't think he's clear enough in this part when who, not in terms of who makes up the election board, but in what way will really come to the election board. Unfortunately, we have cases from the county from which I come that the parties could not agree and then the electoral commission decided on its own but in a way that did not respect the provisions of the position and opposition in the municipality in which it was working. By the way, counterpart Mršić was saying what to the county. It seems to me, however, that the electoral committees are the most bound up, and these are the domestic people by municipalities and cities, and that the priority of the election committees, the position, the opposition should nevertheless be the assembly of municipal and city councils, not the county councils, because it is still a higher level. It is therefore also given here an amendment concerning Article 32(3) that the electoral commission, in the event that parties or coalition parties cannot agree on the composition of the electoral committee, must decide but in accordance with the composition of the representative body at the time of the election, means one that was until then, strictly respecting the position and opposition rather than by their own principles, so that they place some other or third people. And in the same article, another important thing. It is said that election committee presidents and his deputy have to be not party persons. Since there is a lot of talk here about penalties, I think it would certainly be correct if candidates and everyone else had to give and sign statements, verify them with the public notary, or I hope warmly with the electoral commission that they too under material and criminal responsibility sign a statement that they are not party people. Unfortunately, we have known that under the cover of non-party people we have people who are organised in the parties and no matter what we have more party election committees, there can always be some doubt that I don't think there's any need to talk about because in local elections as well as in all others, everything should be clear and clear. In doing so, and these fines regarding electoral silence, they have been talked about a lot, but I still think, and I agree with all those who have said that the penalties are too small. They are too small because of what it means, which means 500 kuna fines for a natural person in a city like Zagreb, or in a town like Varazdin if it can activate the last day. Excuse me, the punishment is ridiculously low. If we want to sharpen that such things don't happen to us, I think the punishments should be such that they dissuade anyone's desire and need to do something like that, do it once in their lives, and never think about it again. Perhaps it is the legislator’s wish that this is exactly the kind of thing that comes to pass. For some campaign worth 500, 600 million kuna fines of 20 thousand kuna for, which is, the highest for a legal person is negligible and ridiculous. Therefore, it seems to me that we should go with stronger punishments so that no one even tries to do such a thing. I'm afraid these penalties will stimulate the offenders and we'll have many of us again who will eventually complain and who, honestly and in accordance with the law, will respect the whole, entire pre-election silence and all that is related to it. After all, I am aware that this is a small step forward and I agree with my colleague Cain who spoke if there is no direct choice, the most correct law so far was the combination of the 93rd proportional and majority system. It seems to me that this government still has no strength and no motive and desire to keep promises in life. So this is a tiny little cosmetic improvement, but it looks like we have to stick to something better than nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34828	Thank you very much. Now it's Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the light of what he has just finished his speech by colleagues, it is to point out that this has been amended, i.e. the new Government's proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units is certainly an improvement of the text that the Government has withdrawn from the procedure and it is an opportunity to in some way the Government when it deserves to be commended for having the strength and obeying, after all, everything that has been said in the public, on its own and on the basis of the organisation of the SDP Club, a round table on this topic. Because this bill, therefore, was in many ways a step back from the existing situation. It is now being corrected by this bill and it is acceptable. So, the government did listen to those criticisms, of course, that the weight of these criticisms couldn't wait for this new proposal, and in that I say should also give recognition to the government. However, this is the time to remind, however, that the government has disappointed its voters, unfortunately not for the first time, when and from its opposition times, it has said loudly that it will follow the citizens' aspirations that, on the basis of constitutional powers and solutions, the electoral law will be such that citizens will be directly elected by their representatives and that, while it was still an opposition, the government has promised that the election of local self-government units will be elected in a direct manner. So it's not like that, but still the government has given up on that intention that there's a list holder who would be different from the person who's first on that list, so, of some kind of election... What continues to be criticised and I do not know why the proposer insists in Article 6 that the indication must be certified by the public notary but does not give this opportunity to be the same indication certified by the electoral commission anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This unnecessarily creates citizens who want to exercise their passive right to be chosen in this way practically and punish themselves. So there's no reason not to leave an old definition that's much better and with the principle of economicity on its own. It was certainly expected that in its changes, the government would be on the trail of what was constantly pointed out by the President of the Electoral Commission that this election silence would finally be interrupted at 7 p.m. and that it is therefore possible to question the public change during the vote. That's also to say hello. However, it is a small minor number of cosmetic changes. What continues to be critical is the criminal provisions that apply only to voters of electoral silence. And whether these penalties are small or large, I would not look back on it as much as it is necessary to protect the different rights but also the obligations arising from this Law, therefore not only in terms of electoral silence, regardless of what these duties and rights are protected by our criminal legislation. Unfortunately, election thefts took place in Croatia. Criminal charges have been filed but these proceedings have never been brought to an end, though they haven't even started. And that is why it seems more effective, but also because of the prevention of so-called high fines for violation of the electoral right for electoral fraud, for the violation of the voter's freedom of choice, for violation of the secretion of voting, for the destruction of electoral documents, so I repeat for the abuse of electoral rights. So it wouldn't be the first and only case that we have parallel responsibility and criminal and criminal justice. In fact, the situation and everyday life suggest that criminal sanctions are more effective than criminal sanctions where the possibility of criminal proof is particularly difficult because different assumptions should be fulfilled than those required for criminal liability. So also from the point of view of preventing situations that have occurred to someone by heart, who abuses their false residence and that it appears in two places we have seen great shame in the last presidential elections, so that it is precisely those persons who fall, those who approach the elections, and on the other hand, to protect their electoral right, I think it would be necessary to prevent criminal provisions or criminal sanctions, but in this law rather than just for electoral silence, which, in relation to such violations, is indeed far, far less dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34830	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Jagoda Martic's turn. You're welcome, MPs. Excuse me, excuse me. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Emil Tomljanović. Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34831	Mr. Vice-President is an incorrect allegation of the esteemed MP Antičević, quote: "the government has failed its voters by giving up the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors." Dear colleagues, you quoted the government programme, which was presented in pre-election time but until 2007. As far as I know, we're at the beginning of 2005 so if there's nothing else for correctness to do, for correctness's sake it's not, and... Let me, so I, I'm here alone. [[The intruders can't be heard.]] Imagine if my other colleagues were around me now to give you a nice return. So say it. There's another one, there's another one, just another sentence. Just one more sentence concerning the same correction of the incorrect allegation states that this is the closest form of direct elections mainly related to the existing, existing constitutional framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34832	Thank you very much. It is not quite a correction, however, that it is not forbidden to disappoint its voters, and in particular, this is not expected in particular by the opposition to which it applies if so. Let's move on. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Ms. Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It has already become a common practice that in the Republic of Croatia electoral laws and rules are often changed immediately before the elections themselves. All this leads to legal uncertainty and unfair information and voters and candidates. So this government in the emergency procedure first refers to a bill, so when a number of errors were made in this bill, the government is withdrawing it from the procedure, speeding it up, and we got a new proposal yesterday, and today we are already discussing it. This shows that this government can be very efficient and up-to-date when it comes to local elections. It would be good for the government to show this urgency when it comes to some other laws, especially those of laws that have a direct impact on the everyday lives of citizens. The legitimate right of each government is to adapt the electoral law to its needs, which is to ensure that the ruling party can deliver a better election result. It's all legitimate and there's nothing controversial about it, but it's questionable why such changes of law are passed at the last minute literally before the elections themselves. It's been over a year since this government took over. I think it's a bad practice that brings both voters and candidates into a state of uncertainty and uncertainty, unfair information, one word leaves the impression of legal uncertainty and improvisation. This is why this practice should stop. A few sentences about the bill itself, although everything has already been said. The changes proposed are less cosmetic, and they are not significantly changed by the current law on election of members of the representative body. It is as well as many colleagues have pointed out that the applicant has given up the original purpose that the holder of the list cannot be the first, does not have to be the first proposed candidate on the list. If this government has already given up the pre-election promise even though my colleague Tomljanovic will probably correct me again that this is not the case, about the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, then it is good for citizens to know at least this way who they choose for the main functions in the municipality, city or county? It is therefore good to give up the erasure of paragraph 3 in Article 14. Article 6 proposes that the candidates' indications of acceptance of the application must be certified by the public notary. I believe that it should remain and the possibility that this indication can be confirmed by a competent electoral committee, as has already been said by more MPs, and a colleague of Korenik has actually made some calculation of how much the cost of the elections is because each unit of local self-government does not have a public notary. The candidates should therefore first reach the nearest public notary. It's also costing that clearance. Therefore, I see no reason why the possibility of a confirmation of the obvious would not remain if it could be with the competent electoral authority as it has been so far. It is good that this bill reduces the electoral silence because I really don't see any reason for the electoral silence to be in force and after the vote is closed. We know that in many smaller places and municipalities, practically counting votes will already be done sometime before eight o'clock in the evening. And fines are scheduled, and that's good. However, I also agree with all those colleagues who have said that these fines are too small and that they will practically not prevent someone who intends to break the law on the rules. And here I fully agree with my colleague Ingrid who said not only penalties for violating electoral silence, but also for all other abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34834	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34835	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to comment on a few things from this law before I say that this proposal is better than the one we had on the benches before, so it was withdrawn afterwards. I'm going to say what I think might be an improvement in the text of what we have in the proposal, of course, provided we accept the argument. First, Article 12 has this obligation to comply with the statutes in relation to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities. Of course it makes sense that it's in the law, but it seems embarrassing to me that it hasn't been done so far. And according to what we know in some communities and in some municipalities it has not yet been done, and of course this obligation remains. The second Article 13 leaves the possibility that those representative bodies which have failed to comply with the statutes or do not comply with the statutes within the time limit set out in the 12th paragraph shall be allowed to do so below. Next to the debate we had on the Committee on Human Rights and my thinking in this regard comes down to the following. Since constitutional law regulates the representation of minorities and additional elections, this Article 13 here does not seem necessary. And I would like to advocate accepting that amendment that we have defined on the Committee to delete this article. I can appreciate the argument that says that maybe I shouldn't, but I admit that I'm still not convinced that's not the case. The third creature I'm going to mention is this matter of penalties for electoral silence. I join this opinion which has been said here several times that 500 kuna as a condition of silence is a small amount and many people will actually not know if I can say out of the bush, pay 500 kuna to make such an election silence break. In this regard, such a obstructed sentence ceases to have a purpose. The fourth thing I'm commenting on here is this question of verifying this consent to the candidacy. In the Committee's debate, we have been given an explanation of how the proposal to delete the election commission's certification was obtained from the electoral commission. I'm not surprised that they suggested it because it allows them a certain memorial. But given that they are the official body in charge of the procedure and since I am expensive and since it is irrational to provide even greater income to public notaries by law and since people have to travel and probably travel expenses even more.- I think it would be very reasonable to leave the possibility for candidate lists to also be certified in election committees. It's at least an opportunist. Mr. Vice President, that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34836	Thank you very much. And as last in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see with this bill of law, it looks like the last guarantee from Prime Minister Sanader's security card is going down. The guarantee that with the elections they will be directly in the sense that citizens will be able to directly elect mayors of cities and municipalities. This touching observation by Mr Tomljanovic that the HDZ still has until 2007 to keep this promise is convenient but completely illogical. Because these elections are being held in 2005 for 4 years and will end in 2009. So it becomes quite unclear how Mr. Tomljanovic and his party have been thinking of fulfilling their pre-election promise since 2007. So it's certainly a pre-election promise that has nothing to do with it. The second thing is, it's been almost a year and a half since HDZ was in power and we haven't settled electoral legislation. Gong's been warning about that for a long time. We have a special electoral law for local self-government, special for the President of the Republic, special for Parliament's election. But Gong also warns it should be organised differently, but instead of listening to Gong Gong, money is taken. Now that they don't have the money, I guess they won't be able to propose something like this. He's not gonna have any money for basic activity, so he's not gonna make a mess of this place. What Gong suggests. It proposes that the State Election Commission be a permanent electoral body, proposes to be one implementing law on elections. Therefore, elections for both the president and local self-government and parliament are held per form. It suggests that some candidates should vote alive and for others, both alive and dead. It proposes transparent financing and advertising. And we have a case that even for the last elections imagine not even a member of the HRT programme board of directors wishes to provide information on how much a political party spent on its candidate's pre-election campaign. Instead of solving all these issues, it was a year and a half. What's going on? First of all, one bill is sent, and he is quick to withdraw, so another bill that is something better is being sent, but in any case does not solve these issues systematically. The withdrawn one suggested that this list holder should not be candidates on the list. So why, because it was such a political assessment, with the promoter, it's completely understandable to me. Probably the party's president stands better than the party itself, that's right, so it was calculated that if he were to bear the list that the party would have a better chance in front of voters. The HDZ probably doesn't have enough quality people at local level, so it would be good to cover them with Sanader, which is also probably true. But under public pressure, the government is retreating. He's pulling that bill, and that's good. That's good. It goes back to the old model, and in that sense we commend that government. So they're sending this new proposal. Is he acceptable? A is, it's acceptable because it's better than the previous one that's been withdrawn. But does he suffer defects, does he have faults, does he suffer criticism? Well, he's suffering. A serious one was said by Mr. Pupovac here. We really have this article 12 that clearly states how it has to be done. It means that the representative body of the local self-government unit is obliged to deliver the Statute within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Well, then, Article 13, and what if that's not how the representative body does it? So it's preset that the representative body won't comply with the law. That's, that provision is bad. That provision is bad and besides sanctions, there is some kind of hierarchy of legal regulations. Well, the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is in the hierarchy of regulations above this law. Moreover, this law should be respected not only in his letter but also in his spirit. And the provisions of this law should encourage the authorities of local self-government to comply with constitutional law, and if they do not respect it then the sanctions must go there perhaps until as far as Mr. Pupovac has said, and that they are prevented from carrying out the elections. That they will then try to bring their statutes into line when they have not already done so since the time when the constitutional law was passed. What about the punishments? It's a good thing some sanctions are imposed, but those sanctions aren't far enough. It is not a violation of electoral silence the greatest sin that can occur in the conduct of elections. It's certainly not good for someone to break electoral silence. That's certainly not good. But what if again what appeared in the presidential election to break some more important rules? What if someone voted twice? What are the sanctions for him? In this election law, not a word. What to say about the ministry that prepared the amendments and amendments to the law and left them for example. Article 61, which says, "In regular elections in 2001, the proposers of the list will respect the principle etc." The 2001 elections were held by elected representatives. What do we need now in the law provisions that will take place in the 2001 elections when these elections are behind us? Why do we need an article 62? He says: "By announcing the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to call elections for members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units and units of the regional (regional) self-government in 2001". What do we need that provision for? So that's how the changes shifted, I understand the speed. A quick proposal was to make a quick one and then pull it back, and then work the other one quickly, and then the man changes that there are some other articles that should at least have been deleted as unnecessarily. So the law would be neater, a little bit more logical. But in spite of all these remarks, I'm sure Mr. Popovec's remarks will be appreciated by the Government, I'm sure of it somehow, I have such a feeling. So when he respects them, this law, along with all these shortcomings, will be somewhat acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34838	Thank you very much. He doesn't broadcast television. And I suggest, this is how we say it for better and shorter debates and a little less, a little less entrenched. Well, I mean, I suggest we let the MPs know when he's transmitting and when he's not broadcasting. I see Mr. Stazic laughs, but he accepts it. Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the government, Mr. Antun Palaric. ... There was one correction to the incorrect quote of Nika Rebić but [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You gave up. [[Intruder: Cancelled.]] Here you go, Mr. Palaric. I see he's pleased too.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34839	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we have thoroughly discussed the law that most MPs considered to be good, better. They also shared the government's view that this is a step forward in the development of electoral legislation. As a measure of things, we are trying to impose the opinion of Gong, so let me read, here today I have the opinion of Gong who says this, quote: "We are expressing satisfaction with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government as it solves a large number of inaccuracies and inaccuracies but also anti-constitutional provisions that we warned about during February and March 2005. "years." And they're making suggestions to make the law even better. So here's Gong even agreed to our law. The government remains with its proposal, the government will make these amendments, the amendments will be obvious when we vote. But we certainly believe that some of the provisions of the law are incomplete or misunderstood, particularly as regards the representation of national minorities because, according to our records, the representative bodies have brought the Statutes in line and this provision only spoke of the fact that in situations where the representative bodies have increased the number to ensure representation, I am giving them time to return from 15 days to that number that is scheduled to achieve the constitutional law. And of course we predict the possibility that the law is not respected. Therefore the elections will be, the elections must be and we will apply the law then if they do not comply themselves. Thank you to all who have supported the provisions of the law and who will vote for it. We will plead with the amendments when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34840	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, emergency procedure. The debate is over. We have a number of amendments with a table, so I'm asking the Secretary of State to show up on the proposed amendments. Amendment number one. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34842	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34843	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34844	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34845	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. Representatives Valter Drandić, Furia Radina and MPs Dorothy Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34846	It is not accepted, we think it is a good legal solution, that there is no need to prescribe a quota, because it would choke the freedom of running and the political game.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34847	On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34848	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, especially what is now said, is contrary to at least one law, the Law on Gender Equality, and is contrary to the strategy for equality with the national programme for gender equality. Both laws predict that both the law and the national strategy will actually predict that it will come out, and already... it should happen by 2003 that a modus will be found to increase the share of women's populations in political life. So, the proposal of all women's human rights organisations in Croatia, included in the women's network, is important. But even more importantly, it's actually Mr. Secretary of State that you just said that is contrary to the laws this House has passed. So that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34849	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment won 16 votes, 13 abstentions, 67 against, did not get the required majority. 4th Amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34850	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34851	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number five has been withdrawn. The 6th Amendment of MP Dragica Zgrebec is the same as Amendment 4 so it has already been voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34852	The amendment was consummated. I accepted the Committee's amendment, so I can refuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34853	You don't need anything, so the Rules of Procedure took care of it, he was accepted earlier, so he's accepted now, consummated. 7. Representatives Miroslav Korenika and representatives Jelena Pavicicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34854	It's also consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34855	That's right. It's becoming an integral part. 8th Amendment of the same representative and representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34856	We do not accept, because this would mean imposing an electoral commission that it is only seeking a candidate from the majority and minority parties, it is an excessive obligation, if the parties do not wish to propose candidates, then the Electoral Commission should allow freedom for him to appoint election committees from the people at his disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34857	It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34858	I think, Mr. Secretary of State, you're wrong, because there are situations where the parties really can't agree. But precisely from those parties that are candidates who are proposed should the commission then select someone from that circle. Unfortunately... Happens to simply choose some quite other people who do not comply with this law. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] This proposal would make it far more precise for the commission to agree on the election committee as it is in accordance with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34859	Please come in. Please vote. The result? For amendment 23, abstentions 6, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 9 also of the same representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34860	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34861	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the 10th Representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34862	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34863	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 11th also representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34864	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34865	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12 MPs Valter Drandic and Furia Radina and MPs Dorothy Pesic-Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34866	It's unacceptable. This amendment lays down criminal provisions for the violation of an article which has not been accepted and which has not been voted upon. So, it's a violation of gender equality, so we can't even accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34867	Thank you very much. Now actually, the refusal to do so is contrary to this same law where it is said that the electoral commission will make sure that genders are equally represented. If he's gonna keep an eye on how he can handle it if there's no criminal provisions. So I'm staying on that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34868	But unfortunately, we cannot vote, because your amendment, which did not receive the required majority, has said that the representation of one sex on the lists for the selection of members of the representative bodies must not be less than 40% and this amendment provides for criminal provisions for one who does not respect what has not passed. So we can't vote because it wasn't the previous amendment that was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34869	No, I can. This amendment is not necessarily related to those 40% but is necessarily bound by the fact that the current law states that it must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34870	Comrade Radin, this was your amendment that didn't pass because it was an imperial norm. The list must be represented by members of one sex less than 40%. He didn't pass, and then we can't vote on it. Amendment No 13. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34871	Mr. President, honourable MPs! We would accept it if sanctions were increased, but the government's formulation proposed excessively, so if the Committee's proposing agrees, I would agree that the prescribed law for a natural person with 500 kuna should be prescribed at 3 thousand kuna and not at 500 as amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34872	For how long?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34873	Not five grand. Furthermore, in the next paragraph, fines from 10 thousand not to 100 thousand but to 30 thousand kuna for candidates who break electoral silence. And also, the government would reshape this amendment regarding the responsible person in the legal person, so that the penalty would be from 10 thousand to 30 thousand kuna. In such a formulation, we could accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34874	A colleague of Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34875	Thank you very much. What do you want me to say? I'm in. Otherwise, I'm falling for everything else. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34876	Okay. Thank you very much. The amendment in this section is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. 14. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34877	We don't accept the amendment. We prescribe the obligation for members of the representative body to comply with the statutes but we also foresee a mechanism that will happen if they do not do so because we believe they will. As a responsible government, however, we must also anticipate an alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34878	Representative Furio Radin, on behalf of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34879	Thank you very much. The statutes have not harmonised their provisions on this matter for three years. Now we allow them to continue so unpunishedly and give them clear instructions to do so in the next session. I think it's the wrong policy, it just means we don't follow the law. That's why I'm staying on it and let it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34880	Please vote. Please, let's sign up. He can vote. The result? 11 for the amendment, 12 abstentions, 74 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 15 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34881	We don't accept content with the same explanation. We want those representative bodies that have increased the number due to national representation because no required number of members of national minority representative bodies have been elected during the elections to return to that initial number belonging to the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34882	This amendment only made sense in the event that the previous amendment was accepted and therefore there is no point in holding it at all, so for the first time I am solemnly withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34883	Thank you. Amendment 15 withdrawn. We had two amendments to the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić who were not submitted in accordance with Article 163(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will therefore not be considered. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes cast by all MPs, 77 votes in favour. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. What's the score? I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government has been adopted by 94 votes to, 3 abstentions and 1 against. We have another proposal for a conclusion. The club of HSU representatives has proposed a conclusion which obliges the Croatian Parliament's Professional Service to draw up the consolidated text of this law within eight days. In fact, the Legislative Committee should stand, so I would ask you to accept, in that direction, an amendment to the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34884	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34885	To accept an amendment to the proposal for a conclusion, then the Legislative Committee is obliged to produce a consolidated text because it is in its section. Please, let's get on with it. We vote for this conclusion. What's the score? I find the conclusion accepted 95 votes for and four abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's what we've absorbed this section with. 30. we will begin the debate Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Law on Corruption, confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the control of terrorism, amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land P.Z.E. I ask the Committee to do so, as well as this Law amending and supplementing the Law on Marine Fisheries, the same P.Z.E., the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, which is the Proposer and Proposal for a Law on the List of Elections of HNS Representatives of the PGS, and so on. I'm interrupting the session. Resume 30 at 9.30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to let all of you and your families who mark it and celebrate it and celebrate my wish to the Happy and Blessed Easter Holidays. The session was interrupted at 18.40 hours. When the Government thinks about the amendments too, because after discussing this next law, which is now on the agenda, we will vote on this law that was under consideration. We are going to today's final point of debate - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 279 Proposer is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debates carried out by the Committee on Law, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. I ask Secretary of State of State of the Interior Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34888	I apologize for being late first. ... No, because of this situation in Petrinja. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I apologize again. As a result of the migration changes caused by the war, the MUP has proposed to amend this House Act for general reasons and problems that have arisen in Croatia most. We are all aware that there has been a change and a number of residents in certain areas, especially those affected by the war, in some other areas to smaller ones and what is evident with the problems that have escalated in the last presidential elections where there have been obvious differences between the data on the number of inhabitants and the number of voters. Somewhere we have really absurd situations that we have in the list of voters more registered than residents. Since local elections are the main condition for a person to live in a place where he has a registered residence, we have proposed a change of this law. The amendment of this law is closely related to the change, i.e. the amendment of the Law on Elections of Representatives to the representative bodies of the units of local self-government because the residence is the basis for voting rights for local elections, while for elections for Parliament and presidential elections the residence is not the basis for inclusion in the voter lists. As I said, since it is obvious that there are great differences in certain environments I repeat again it is most often in the war of the affected areas and in the areas occupied during the war, we considered it necessary again on the proposed amendments to the Law on election of members of the representative bodies of the local self-government to create a credible basis for the election lists from the local elections. This is the only reason why this amendment to the law has gone on, although we know from before that there is a reasonable reason for the complete change of the Law on residence has already passed since the Constitutional Court of some provisions of the Law on residence deleted as unconstitutional. Obviously, this Law on a residence that does not correspond to the needs and spirit of the present time will have to be changed, and since this issue of non-compliance between the electoral lists and the real residence started in the public before, during and after the presidential elections was also an initiative from NGOs and individual institutions. We believe that this law was necessary in this regard and in order to make lists of voters and residences, i.e. to bring the residence records into line with the real situation in municipalities and cities. You have seen that this law is short and that it primarily introduces one novelty in the proposed article 13 which is to introduce the possibility of eradicating from the residence records conducted by the MUP. The residence could not be deleted under current law, i.e. it could only be deleted if the person gave incorrect information when reporting the residence. But life in every environment carries change and it is normal for people to change their residence, move, go and come into certain environments, and by law they were obliged to change every change of residence. According to the Law on residence and the Law on Infringements is not to report a change of residence and a violation. However, there was a mass of cases that people were aware of whether out of neglect to report their changes to their residence, so they moved to other cities and other municipalities even abroad and did not regulate that change in a way that they had checked out in the middle of where they were until then. These cases were I would say a lot, and despite the prevented criminal sanctions for non-regulating the residence application, there were very few cases where people were indeed harmonizing their formal application of the residence with the actual place of residence. Since we have not had the possibility so far, no state administration body has had the possibility to delete the registered residence under official duty, even for those persons for whom it is clear that they do not reside at the address of permanent residence, it was necessary to introduce this possibility in order for the competent authority, which is the MUP, to see in this proposal a law that can be submitted to the initiative, it was possible to delete from the residence records of the person for whom it is clearly established in the administrative procedure that they do not actually reside at the address where they have the registered place of residence. I say this is a problem that is due to all these migration movements that have been in the area of the Republic from neighbouring countries, it is a serious problem and will surely require a very large responsibility in the implementation of these activities if this law is adopted in this form. The implementing rules will also have to be adopted to regulate the way in which someone does not reside at the address at which he is registered, administrative proceedings will be carried out and any party will be able to protect a possible violation of its right. I've had so much, if there are any questions I'll try to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34889	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34890	Thank you, Mr. President. Our committee, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities considered this law as an interested working body. The debate stressed that there is a very sensitive change of law that cannot be seen only in relation to the upcoming local elections. The opinion was also expressed that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law would reflect the status and other rights of citizens of particularly refugees and displaced persons, which could result in the emergence of a category deleted with all the problems that they could bear with them. There was also the view that such sensitive changes should not be made by emergency procedure, especially as they cannot be carried out until the upcoming elections. A number of proposals have been tabled in the debate with the aim of identifying as accurately as possible which persons should be excluded from the process of eradicating their residence, since they do not have the conditions for living in places where they have registered residence and where they lived before the refugee or the detachment resulting from the war. In the end, an amendment was adopted, in Article 1. The final draft of the law, meaning Article 13 is amended as follows: The law in paragraph 2 where the words "or" should be deleted behind the word "residents" and the words "displaced" should be added behind the word "exorcists". And this proposed amendment, which has been voted upon, among the persons for whom the competent authority has proposed an amendment amongst the persons for whom the competent authority does not decide to delete from the residence records, including not only refugees but displaced persons and exiles, but displaced persons, as it is also war victims who do not yet have the conditions for living at the address of the registered residence. Finally, after a discussion with 2 votes for, 2 against and 1 abstention, the following conclusion was reached: It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens with the already read amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34891	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac has proposed a break, but here you are, you have announced it, but here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34892	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for the club's consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34893	Thank you. Ten minutes off. It's 4:55 p.m. ... The MPs will continue to work. [[beginning not saved]] I ask Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS to state the position of the Club. Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34895	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since it is about amending the Law with a very delicate objective or very delicate possibilities that this amendment carries with it, we at the SDSS Club have been consulted on these amendments have given consent to part of these amendments, but not to part of it. And I was offered a speech from the secretary of state. Because the Secretary of State's speech speaks of intent, not formulations. And I have to admit, I'm very concerned. That intention is not an improvement of the law, that intention is an expropriation. And that's why we didn't give consent. And if he stays with that intention, then the SDSS Club won't be able to give consent and won't be able to stay with the consent he gave. It's about the next one. There is a discrepancy between the census and the voter list. And there's no telling why this discrepancy occurred. And how did this discrepancy happen? First, the census is based on the standards of the United Nations, or the European Union. This is a census of the population found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the day of the census. And all those who were located outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the day of the census are not listed in the population list of the Republic of Croatia. And even those 40,000 we, in cooperation with the State Statistics Institute, did not want to be included in that list, but you will be told it will be just the archives of the list. And not to talk about others. In other words, the census did not cover all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And you can't use it as an argument. It was then said to be the de facto population of the Republic of Croatia, not de jure. What's de jure is in the list of voters, it's in other lists, and we can't subsequently coordinate what's de jure with what's de facto. If we do that, then we can question everything that's with the de jure. And in that sense, the SDSS Club, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, is not to be decided today by this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34896	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We'll discuss these dilemmas and reflections. And the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community has also decided that today, to propose not to vote today on this bill, to coordinate all possible views of a number of misunderstandings which have numerous representatives, so that today we will not vote on this law, but we will conduct a debate, we will vote there 30, 31 or 1. Whether or not the representative of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system wishes to give an additional report orally. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. A SDP representative club respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34897	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us this proposal of the law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens and there is no secret that it is being passed here before the local elections. And because of this, it was a very negative reflection in the public that was manifested in these last presidential elections. And another thing is that it is already quite clear that we are in place after 91 years of adoption of this Law and has never been changed in the meantime, that we are threatening to have more voters in Croatia soon than we have residents. Of course, in such a situation, the government had to react, and we have some changes that concern us in order to somehow end up in false dwellings. It should be noted that the Constitutional Court has just responded in 2000 by amending Article 2(2) in paragraph 1 and in paragraph 2 which refers only to the definition of residence. Clearly, it is now a place of residence only as a place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time. And that is one definition that distinguishes residence from residence, which stands in all textbooks and how almost all countries define it. However, that is the problem. That we and our State Administration administration can't even control an exact situation, let alone react to someone's intention. And what was abolished in the meantime in 2000, so we had a full 9 years chance for a citizen to report his residence on the grounds that he had or had real estate, even though the property issue does not necessarily have to or is necessarily connected to his residence. Or if he had some kind of lease agreement. And that was already enough, so as an interpretation and the intention to keep that citizen settled, i.e. to obtain the status of citizens in a specific place with residence. And so there have been many problems that have only accumulated for years almost geometrical progression. However, in the offices, in the Police Administration of the 1990s it is even suggested to citizens that if they have a housekeeper, they must report a residence in the Republic of Croatia, even though they themselves said they did not live there. However, the consequences are not catastrophic only during election time, perhaps even the least. The biggest consequences are how much money on the basis of a fake home drain from our state budget. Eclative examples are some places, such as Makarska. Where it is evident where the Police Administration has the information that more inhabitants live in one address than is possible under the laws of physics, or a certain number of bodies on that surface. And therefore, it is obvious that he had to react in a certain way. Of course, this is one of the attempts, and we at the SDP Club welcome these attempts, so that the competent authority can now, by official duty, react and initiate proceedings precisely against those who gave false information and therefore recorded their residence. The same good solution is that, in the same way, incentives for such proceedings can be given by the bodies of the units of local self-government or by other bodies of the state administration, but also by legal and physical persons themselves, and on the basis of the knowledge that the declared person does not reside in a particular place. However, there is still a question of the effectiveness of control, how it will be controlled, and I think that first of all, the fundamental issue of implementing this law is that the state body, that our administration, especially the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whose jurisdiction and residence records fall into, is that it must travel precisely to those areas where I say threatens to have more people registered with residence, and therefore also voters than they have residents. In order to be more effective in this, we have already overloaded our Penal Code with many criminal acts and even excruciating criminal acts, but certainly if giving testimony is a criminal offence, if giving false grounds to the state authorities is a criminal offence, I see no reason because the consequences of just false application for the state budget are great. After all, the consequences of the electoral fraud or the possibility that, on the basis of false reporting, other crimes which we already have as such are incriminating and which protect the right to vote. Therefore, it would be good for the government to have more time to consider just false reporting to become a crime because of the particularly social dangers it carries behind it. The SDP Club therefore welcomes these changes in this sense but considers them still insufficient to begin solving the problem I say did not arise from yesterday, which was created in 1991 when the whole thing generated by this formulation later abolished by the Constitutional Court that the residence might already have one who has some real estate. The issue of control is also on the first moss seems to be very difficult. But here's a little suggestion. There's enough here, Mr. Secretary of State for which there's an application, you can control it yourself, to ask anyone else but your first neighbor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34898	Thank you very much. The club of HNS representatives of PGS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34899	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! The club of HNS representatives of the PGS gave a month and a half ago in the procedure of the Law on List of Voters as the basic law in this set of electoral laws. Namely, this law we're talking about now is a presumption of making a normal set of electoral laws. Some of the solutions in our proposal match, are compatible with the solutions proposed in this law. And it's a shame we're not discussing this together today, maybe we'll come to some smarter conclusions than we'll ever come to. It is a great shame that the Government's proposals come to the agenda of this House within 24 hours and the opposition proposals wait to be set on the agenda maximum legal time and then until they come to debate for the next two, three months so that the importance and importance of parliamentaryism is slowly lost. However, in any case, the Law on residence and residence of citizens is significant because it is necessary to clearly determine who is there and who in the local elections can vote. That's what the promoter finally says is his intention. According to the current law on residence and residence, it is sufficient for a citizen to say that he wants to reside in a certain city in a certain place and to automise his statement and his free will to be included in the list of residences, and therefore also in the list of voters. In the first version of the law, the law now in force stated that a citizen must prove that he owns property or has a lease contract and so on, the Constitutional Court annulled it with an explanation that it encroachs on citizens' rights to move, freedom of movement and so on. But the manipulations that are possible in the present state of affairs if we don't change anything are doubles. On the one hand, there are tourist buses from Belgrade and Cačka that bring voters to Vojnic and Plaški and other places. On the other hand, there is Makarska and similar places where by ten people are reported in one room five by five. So, in both cases, impossible situation. Why do people do that? Now the situation with the presidential election has hit us in the face, so we've seen and seen the real situation. But people don't do it because of choice, essentially, but because of certain social rights. Millions and millions of kunas are poured out of the Croatian budget to meet the social needs of non-citizens in the Republic of Croatia. There are other countries in Europe that have registered residents of their own or foreign background but control whether these people are there. Our workers in Austria are going through the process of checking every so many times. An inspector shows up at the apartment and finds that he's not here and he's off the social income list. It's not happening with us, of course. We've compiled a good will to help everyone, to include everything, to be with everyone good, with everyone decent, and now, of course, it's coming back to us. The fact is also that this law comes too late, at least as far as its purpose is concerned. He can't even theoretically apply to these elections. Article 1(3) states that the competent authority will carry out the clearance procedure from the residence records only after the administrative procedure has been properly implemented and after the clearance decision has finally become final. This orderly administrative procedure cannot last less than 15 days by any theory. Article 3 of the amendment states that the Minister of the Interior will adopt implementing rules within eight days. These 15 and these 8 are 23. As the People's Newspapers come out with the law, so by the time the law comes into force, let's go for a minimum of three days. 26 days and 15.4. The government should call the election. It is evident that even the promoter has no clear intention of doing so. The very procedure proposed in the law, the process of deleting from the record is also not clearly precise. Number one, you should say that he must be unique. Finally, this is a Croatian law, not the law of some municipalities and some cities. It is a Croatian law, it must be unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is unclear whose initiative will be encouraged by the state administration authority responsible for residence, which is the Ministry of the Interior, to carry out the erasure process. This process can be initiated on the initiative of the body itself, on the citizens' initiative, on the initiative of legal persons, on the initiative of anyone, but nowhere does it say who will do it now. Who's gonna do this job right now? What, though, could be achieved by this Law if desired? A list of real-occupied citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia could be updated. Once we know who lives here, who really lives and who has Croatian citizenship and doesn't live there, and he has no intention of living here, and he doesn't even think about living there. Secondly, social rights could also be granted in greater scope to those living in the Republic of Croatia, which are intended because the money for these social rights is allocated from the state budget of this country. And thirdly, the manipulations in the local elections would be reduced as we saw in the presidential elections. All in all, the intention is good, for this election, I'm afraid she's too late, that she missed. Only now is the question of who's up now, who's gonna take the next step. I expect it to be the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34900	Thank you. Our work at the gallery is followed by students of Engineering Technical School from Zagreb, nice greeting! ... Too bad it's not some topic that would be closer to them from Engineering, but what do we do? [[Applause]] U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34901	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with what you Mr. Secretary said in the spirit of time. I understand what you're saying, however, in the spirit of time is the fact that we have tens of thousands of people who don't know where they are right now and don't know how long they're going to stay in that place, it's also in the spirit of time. And I can understand your message from the point of view of clearing things up in this area, but I think it's contrary to the spirit of time now to break some things over, over your knees. Now, in this law I will immediately begin with what is a key problem. The Law states that those people whose residence was acquired falsely, contrary to the law, will be deleted from the residence records. That's what we agree on. Then, in the second paragraph, you suggested that those who have refugee and exile status should be exempted from this erasure. Article 4 here states that the competent ministries will, and I know that from practice, this applies to the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, etc., i.e. to the Directorate for Expatriates and Refugees, therefore, on the basis of the data provided by that administration, an exception will be made. And now, I'm warning you of something that's important, very important in that administration. And with no state authority in the Republic of Croatia refugees of Serbian nationality are recorded in the terms of refugees and exiles, they are not. And if they don't run, then that administration and no state authority can give us information on the basis of which we'll get an exemption. And that means that refugees of Serbian nationality cannot technically be excluded in this regard. Now, the law says explicitly or suggests, its implementation will be carried out by officials, police, etc., we talked about how it can be discussed so that they can be helped to get some people off the ground but you know when a clerk gets the task of clearing it up he will consistently tell what the law says, we have no record that you are an exception and you are not the exception. And it's about a few tens of thousands of people. That's why we're afraid this is going to be erasing the type of what's in Slovenia, and that it's going to produce the consequences that no one in this room is convinced I'm going to want and it's going to bring such huge consequences that it's going to rain on all of us. I'm convinced that it's a failure as an idea, and I'm sure it's not intentional, if this is what I insist on, I think it has to be read as intentional. Now, you have something else, people who, therefore, are refugees of Serbian nationality, who have a ID card and a residence at a specific address in the Republic of Croatia, when you delete their residence, then you take off their identity card and then you take off their passport at that address and you put them in an impossible situation that what comes out of the house, so the consumption of certain civil and status rights cannot be realised, I can't realize. I repeat, I am convinced that no one wants to, but that will be the final consequence. Because now I'm adding this, there's all kinds of people, I'm not defending those who sold their house and got confirmation from the police that they can take their stuff and move out. We don't defend you, but here I'm telling you the following situations, a man can't go to his house because he hasn't been restored, a man can't be returned to his house because he's being returned and he's in such a state that you can't be inside. A man can't go to his own house because he doesn't have electricity and water, a man can't go to his own house because someone tells him you can't be there. What about those who are on temporary work abroad, what about those who are at school? And when we don't have a basic mechanism that, to exempt these people from the formula that doesn't cover them. So I repeat, they're not covered by these refugees and exiles, and then you wiped out a hundred thousand people. Practice will bring it to you. We are in, in the talks, a colleague of Pupovac said earlier in a good faith that we are still holding, and let us wipe out those who, as counterpart Ingrid said, intend to or have shown their intention not to be there, they are not. That's it, that's not what we're arguing about. But it is inadmissible that all those who are past their will be unwarranted due to objective circumstances, because various states have not helped them to be in their home now are not in their home. This Law, this proposal in this form with the mechanism that is built in here, will lead to this. You, Mr. Secretary of State, said "The Constitutional Court has expressed its opinion on, on the concept of residence and, and residence." I understand that distinction, of course, and I think the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court, with that distinction right now, has helped confuse. And I think that, I, I, I, I'm embarrassed to say because it may not be polite, but at this point we talk about residence and residence when, when, when tens of thousands of people don't know where it is, it's actually a formulation that goes to the hands of dishonest actions. It's a similar formulation, a similar formulation was used by the Administrative Court, so I'll tell you what the consequences are. The administrative court reached a verdict in which it states: A man does not have the right to rebuild even though he is 30 years in Germany because he did not live in his home in 1991. The administrative court in, in another decision almost in the same council made a decision different from this one. And now look at that, it's a formulation or it's grades that don't really respect the situation on the ground or, or as you just said a ghost of time. A spirit of time can once be a modern understanding of things. The spirit of time can be a realistic understanding of things. We're a little angry here because we think we should go from, from real understanding things. And because of this, because of what I said and because of our desire to find the best possible way out, we think that the law in this formulation is because of what I said at the beginning under the notion of refugees and exiles are not recorded people of Serbian nationality who have escaped from the Republic of Croatia. That's why they're not here in the exception category, and that's why there's gonna be consequences we can't agree to. I'm very hoping none of you will agree. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34902	Thank you very much. One correction to an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34903	Dear Mr. President, I want to correct the wrong assumption that erasure will happen as in Slovenia. It is incomparable that what happened in Slovenia because in Slovenia people who had the right to get citizenship have not even received Slovenian citizenship and no one in Croatia is questioning already acquired citizenship. So it is incorrect that the same thing that happened in Slovenia could happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34904	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34905	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's any doubt that there's a problem with the accuracy of the residence records. As the secretary of state and colleagues before me said our records did not follow what was happening on the ground. Obviously, people were changing their residence, moving out, but it wasn't updated, and our records were unsettled and incorrect, and of course it has negative consequences in other segments of the rule of law. That is why this Law certainly needs to be changed and this Law that is proposed on a good track. What is a major change in this bill? It is changed as the most important Article 13 of the existing Law, in a way that is now being introduced, introduces the possibility of eradicating residence for some reasons or facts that occurred after a person had already acquired residence. The current Law, the current provision of Article 13, is not possible. The residence is now possible to delete only if someone has given incorrect or false information when filing an application. However, the facts that may arise after the right to reside are that someone has moved out or that a residence under the applicable law cannot be sanctioned elsewhere. Thus, it is possible for someone to sell property, to move or not to log out and still have a registered residence in one place, but there is no legal mechanism, there is no legal mechanism under the applicable law that the state body regulates and sanctions it. For this reason, this change in Article 13 has been made. The law opens up the possibility of eradicating residence and that is because someone has permanently moved out of the Republic of Croatia even though someone has a real residence in a country, in another country, and in the Republic of Croatia only formally. Of course, such situations have and one regulated rule of law must not tolerate them and must be regulated in the right way. In order to avoid confusion, paragraph 2. The Law amending the Law on residence here is very clearly protected by the rights of refugees and exiles and it is determined that such a decision cannot be taken against refugees and exiles. The law also lists a wide range of persons who can raise and open the issue. These are state administration bodies, local self-government units and other legal and physical persons. The role of the Minister of the Interior is also very important here, which must, of course, prescribe new forms, but also the regulation means a sublegal act which will regulate the procedure for determining the necessary facts in the regulation of these issues. This is very important because we know that it is a matter of residence and that it is a definition of a legal residence that says that residence is a place where someone settled with the intention of living in it all the time. So it contains that subjective element of the intention that someone wants to live permanently in a place, and in practice it will certainly lead to some problems, some difficulties in determining such facts. And that's why it's very important that this regulation and how the minister will determine it. This law is more important for future regulation of this issue than it would be for the sole regulation of these issues in the upcoming elections for local self-government. We know very well, and some have already said about the deadlines in which it is brought. About the date when local elections will be and we see that the law says that erasure can only be done after the finality of the solution only after the finality of the delete decision. Therefore, we cannot expect any significant dramatic changes related to the election of those who are now coming. And that is why we think that this law is much more important for future regulation of this issue than it is for it to fully address these issues in these current local elections, and therefore it needs to be seen in one future how it will work. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the law should certainly be changed in this sense in which this law is proposed, and this law offers quite good solutions in terms of resolving these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34906	Thank you. Honored representative Josip Vresk Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34907	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party's club will also support the bill's proposal, believing itself the government's momentum as a proponent is in order. It is a good thing that the Constitutional Court in 2000 when it abolished part of the legal norm contained in Article 2 of this Law. It is also a reason for this decision to make a very precise definition of what a residence is, and it serves as a good basis for transposing it into the law, in fact, that must be the same definition. However, we believe and agree here with other clubs that this law will not make a lot of good moves in these elections. That is to say, the government said as a proposing that voters' lists will be regulated significantly. We hope he will, but not now. Which will be the consequence of this law. Under this law, a competent minister, and this is the Minister of the Interior, does not only adopt a regulation, so under a legal act, although it is not written here that it is a rule, I believe it will be a rule and that will explain it. Therefore, not only does the rules on the removal forms from the residence make it the same rule or probably some other rules on residence patterns. And now he brings them in within eight days. Since the day of entry into force of this law, it is not uncommon for this law to take effect on the day of its adoption but let it go now. Under the Law on the State Administration System, the minister is authorised to adopt three legal acts when he settles some issues that are not regulated by law. It's a rulebook, an order and a guideline. We believe that given the topic that is being addressed here, the minister must edit these issues by a lawyer. In view of the fact that the Government has its own act on the work called the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, which we understand a bit of the minister before such an act is announced, it is required to seek the consent of the competent government body, which is the government's Office for Law. And even if all those deadlines were respected, I think the time is short. Although he has one other opinion of the Constitutional Court since last week and it seems to me Thursday last week. Which actually gives the heads of state administration the possibility to pass under legal regulations and by the time limit laid down in the law. And I think it is good that the Constitutional Court has taken such a position because the functioning of the rule of law is more important than the delay of a certain head of the government's body. So all this is saying is that the time for these elections will be very little and the voter lists will appear to me that the intensity of this law will not be right, however, the very intensity of good. Indeed, we must begin to arrange what is called a residence or even more important what is called a voting list. But there's one more important question just to say that so I can conclude. My colleagues and colleagues, I thought the most important problem was something else. Which is what we voter lists do right before the election. If, or all the bodies of all the competent national administrative authorities, we're going to be doing this job permanently all the time, we're not going to believe we're having trouble with the voter lists. They'll be arranged. If it remains only pre-election work, we will always have unsettled voter lists as we now have them. And not to mention all those and the dead who are listed in the ballots, and there is that, and you know it yourself, then it's only clear how much trouble there is. So considering that this regulation is proposed in good faith, even though we do not understand why we are in a hurry with it. While we still believe in the fact or believe in the intention of the state administration that they will work on taking care of the electoral lists, and in that part they will go through a certain amendment to the regulations governing this area, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34908	Thank you very much. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34909	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The HSP club will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on residence and residence of citizens. NO FOR THE HSP Club, it is incomprehensible that Croatia does not have a scheduled list of voters to this day. Both accurate and accurate records of the residence of Croatian citizens. It is incomprehensible that many cities and municipalities in Croatia, such as Makarska, Vrgorac, Imotski have more residents in the list of voters than in the census. And these are huge differences. And what's interesting is that this is happening to this day, and the day of anything on that plan has not taken place. You know the thing about the residence is that the eyewitness to the residence is an eyewitness to the list of voters the eyewitnesses of the deceased must be connected. It means informationally bound and so on. And let's just say that this part of the unscheduled record of the voters list speaks only one fact in the list of residences. DA The Central State Office for State Administration and the Ministry of Interior are not information-bound. Because the illogical situation is that a parent who sits together with a colleague in the same room who runs the voters list is this part of what the central state administration office does not immediately match the data if someone died to be automatically deleted from the voters list. And incomprehensible that no one for such things, and such things have much, is punished. I think it was a good example of how and how to work at the Department of Defense because military records are far more accurate and precise than this list of residences. And that data could have been used by the Ministry of Defense, because 90 of them were also this situation that had been a lot of problems. There is also a vague situation as to how this could have happened. If a man logs out, then he has to come to the police department, check out his residence, and he immediately speaks must specify exactly where he goes and where he should apply. And there's communication under official duty between one police department and another, and he's being monitored in the act. It's the only way to effectively mean that the state administration has completely failed in all these situations. Now it's an interesting situation. All this that seemed to be in a way that no residence was reported or a false residence was reported. We wanted to be here, and we should hear how many criminal charges were filed and how many people were punished. This means that if it hasn't been done or done a little bit, it means that the state administration isn't doing its part of the job. And it's not good that the state administration isn't doing its part of the job. Another important thing, the challenges that arise within the ruling majority, let the ruling majority solve it. But for Article 13, I think it is important to introduce order, because it is not the same situation if someone has a renovated house in Croatia and he is selling that house then it cannot even vote for local elections in Croatia because the residence is important. But he as a Croatian citizen, like any other Croatian citizen, can vote in parliamentary elections. It means Parliamentarians, yes, but locals have a place of residence. Therefore, it needs to be totally cleared up. If someone's house is restored and he's not going back to that house or even reselling, then he can't be on the list of voters and residences because he's not coming back. Another is the situation if someone is not created conditions, not restored, for example, the house has to be, because it has to be made possible, because if it does, it normally shows the intention of coming back. And I think it's easy to solve in that part. But if it's not done on official duty, then we won't do much. Reaches mean this law will not be great for the upcoming local elections, but we hope that at least it will make order in the future. And according to that, for the end. So we're going to support this part, but it's incomprehensible that this situation is still in place, so today we don't have an orderly list of voters, that we don't have a record of our residence, our residence, and that our state administration isn't informationally connected and that all of these things, and that she had to do according to official duty and delete from the list of voters and put new ones, that is, about how people were changing their residence. Because once again, you're going to have a variant that our voter lists are bad. You will see in the upcoming local elections because a man has checked out, reported a new residence, but has not been followed by this section from the voters' list, which should have been done on official duty. Therefore, until order is introduced, until the state administration starts to answer for what needs to be done there is no way out of this crisis here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34910	Thank you. DC club, HSLS, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34911	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the DC Club, HSLS and LS will support this bill. If we are all full of the mouth of the European Union, then it would be our turn to try to act in accordance with the way people do in the European Union, regardless of how far we have not come to the European Union. Many people know that, for example, in Germany, it is not possible to exercise some social rights such as those of our citizens, in fact, the social rights that now live abroad and are, in fact, actually or truly registered at addresses in Croatia, that such rights, for example, cannot be realised in Germany, living abroad and being socially supplied in, say, Germany. I have one example of one of my acquaintances who lived in an extramarital community, and when he and the distinguished lady had a fight he came to Croatia, when he returned to Germany to collect his money he was supposed to receive, which was given to him by the German State for restraint, then he was properly reported to the police, initiated the procedure, returned all the money he received from the state concerned as a person who was socially restrained and assisted in that country. I pointed out this as an example that if we were to sharpen this situation so that we could also ask for all of our citizens who are registered somewhere in Croatia and live abroad and receive this kind of social assistance from the Croatian state, or social protection, so that they could also ask for a return from such funds. Today it is visible, for example, what is brought about by the permissiveness and inadequate respect of Croatian laws. Because he who is registered, who is a Croatian citizen, is obliged equally to respect Croatian laws as is the duty of every employee in the local administration, self-government in the state administration, etc. If we go to the finish line, we should now, in order to make a qualified decision, ask the question of how many people who sold houses in Croatia have sold their apartments and the rest are still fictitiously registered in Croatia. I don't know why. How many of those who have already finished houses, arranged, arranged, and are also abroad and want to exercise these rights. Finally, a social right is seen if it is not fully implemented and respected how it can lead to, say, political conflicts and markets that could arise, for example, if what we are doing is misread, it could also happen in Croatia. In the end, here's what I'd say is that we're going to support it, I'm going to do it again, we're going to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34912	Thank you very much. There's been a debate over clubs. We have two registered, one representative and one representative in an individual debate. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34913	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will just take a short look at the time but also since I come from a city that has been mentioned so often, from Makarska then surely that on this topic I am simply, I have a need and a commitment to say something. According to existing legal decisions, the competent authority shall, under official duty, make a decision to delete the residence records only if it finds that the applicant has given incorrect or incorrect information when reporting the residence. Dispute cases and changes resulting from time, meaning that behind the orderly application of residences are not legally regulated, or that the existing law cannot resolve them. In addition, the existing law does not provide for the possibility for the competent authority to delete, under official duty, from the official records of those citizens who no longer fulfil the conditions for residence and place and address of residence application. Such a situation is reflected among other things in the list of voters who are incomplete and incorrect. At the time of the presidential election and today, Makarska was often mentioned here just as an example of the poor condition of the voter list. Four years ago, we had a situation that, if we were to compare the list of voters and the census, then it turns out that Makarska has only 800 minors, so we had a population of 800 more. And today's data says this. We have 13 thousand 990 voters listed on the list of voters, and according to the latest census, the city of Makarska has 13 thousand 716 citizens. So we have 274 voters more than the population. I think these numbers speak for themselves enough, and we don't need to comment on them. It's not just a problem with Makarska. Other cities have such problems, especially those that are closer to the border with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is most of the consequences of the war when citizens from the neighbouring country moved to these areas, applied to certain addresses, so we have a situation where so many people were reported at certain addresses in Makarska as if it were a hotel and not a simple family home. There were also those cases that reported their residence and due to the achievement of certain social rights in the Republic of Croatia, such as. Right to maternity benefits. So there were a lot of things, and as a consequence today we have a situation where we have more voters than we have residents in some place. The proposed amendments to the law that are before us will try to eliminate the problems and wishes of the promoter to bring the population's residence and residence as much as possible into line with the real situation. Of course, this proposal should be welcomed and supported. But reading the proposed law, it seems to me that there will be some uncertainty and uncertainty in the implementation of the law, which can ultimately result in not being done much, and that this will be a bill that is nice to hear before the elections, but ultimately, God does not know what kind of success. Why do I say that? Article 1 is replaced by the following: These are cases where the applicant gave incorrect or false information, but also cases where the applicant has a registered residence in another country, while also having a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia as well as a permanent eviction from the Republic of Croatia. In all cases, administrative procedures are to be conducted. Article 2 is now talking about who can apply for the initiation of the removal procedure from the residence records and it is said that it can be the body of the state administration, the body of the local self-government unit and another legal or natural person if they have knowledge that the registered person does not actually reside at the registered address. It's all well imagined, but I don't understand how it's going to work in practice, who's going to take on the obligation to start checking in their environment to see if the state of the paper fits the real situation when it's, of course, registered residences. For this procedure, it is not enough for the Minister of the Interior to prescribe a form of application and check-out of residence, registration of residence and change of home address. This law is unquestionably one step further. It opens up the possibility that this problem will begin to be solved, but I repeat my dilemma once again whether it will work in practice and give the desired results because once again, it is not clear who is going to clear it up, that is, clarifying the situation and control it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34914	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34915	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am quite in agreement with those who believe that in this area, and this means in the residence records as well as in the voter records on voters and other records needs to be kept in order. I am equally in agreement with those who say that the order can of course not be done overnight but that it should be ensured continuously and with a series of complex mechanisms. And in this regard, we have been guided by such understanding of things, because of the general national interest of the SDSS, we have given support to the Government, or to the majority of the party, for this type of work. What we would not like to see in this business, and as my colleague Gajica used to say, I do not believe that anyone would want to see in this House that things that are not desirable happen and that by sorting out the situation in one area create disorder and injustice in another area. What exactly is this about? In this proposal, the amendments and the addition of two things, in the meantime, during yesterday afternoon after we discussed it and reached agreement on Article 13 and its basic provisions, we had the following, that we had article 14a. which continues to use the actual residence formula. If anyone has a place of residence it's either real or formal, but de facto it's formal. And if someone lives in that area, he can't really and unreal. Therefore, the law should not use the formulation of this type "real" without knowing exactly what it means. What does it mean, really? Six months, a year. What is the time limit that a person can count on to actually live? And in that sense, we believe that, we understand what the legislator wanted in his logic, but in his statement, nomotechnical testimony, it opens up an opportunity for an interpretation that is not good. It is therefore necessary to find another formulation that will protect people and protect the legislator, otherwise someone will ask someone to interpret what it really means. He'll say so there's nothing in Rijeka at that and that address for 15 years. Especially if it rings the doorbell to someone who is already inside or someone in Zagreb who has escaped from the area during the years of war and is now not in that place even though he has a ID card and has other documents in that address. Therefore, in order to seduce order in this area, the legislator must naturally use a more precise language and give an interpretation that will not leave room for the fact that I spoke earlier, which is that we have a large number of people who have escaped from their place of residence under war circumstances. There are those who have returned but because of different circumstances are not in their place of residence because they have no idea that they may be in it. That's one problem. The other problem is the one that's already been talked about. So we agreed that refugees and exiles, regardless of nationality, will be excluded until the issue of refugee and exile issues comes down to the state of normality. The government and others, including us and the international community in Sarajevo, signed something called... to finish that job by 2005 and close that file. [[You don't understand.]] By that time, we should not do anything to treat people who are in refugee status and exiles suddenly as potential for eradication. And where we have the problem, it's in Article 4 of these amendments you're proposing, Mr. Secretary of State. According to our knowledge, the competent ministries in the Republic of Croatia do not have complete information on who the refugees are and if they are only provided, then we will not have complete data and then we will have a number of people, a large number of people, in a position to be potential candidates for not being in their place of residence. And for that reason, we propose and think it's a good thing, that our respective ministries with the authorities of the countries where these refugees are staying, exchange data with the help of the UNHCR that has such data and that within a reasonable 30-day period, these data are exchanged so that we don't get a situation that creates a big job for people from the state administration and on the other hand that opens up space for a big mistake. Now allow me one thing I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State. I went to my friends' home last night for five or six families for years, and for years, police have been coming and asking questions about people who have a fictitiously registered residence. I'm talking about Zagreb. If it takes that police to determine whether someone is actually staying or not, does it have a fictitious or a real residence, and you expect that within such a short period of time, we will solve this issue in a way that is now moving, then that in my case raises suspicion. The police are already, I apologize, the police are already trying to determine whether someone is staying or not, according to what I could hear in some areas. And now allow me a few words about what might seem to be controversial but not controversial. We ourselves have suggested those who have the residence of another country and the registered residence in the Republic of Croatia, both cannot have. Only those who are nationals of that other country, if they have become nationals of that other country or were nationals of that other country, can have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia if they regulate interstate relations but cannot have their place of residence in either place. Therefore, if someone has gained status that they may have residence and become a citizen, he is no longer a refugee. In this matter we understand ourselves, but also the one who resides in another country, has a residence in another country and in Croatia what some colleagues here have spoken about is exercising certain residence rights, of course, that they cannot be treated as those who have the right to citizenship, and have the conditions to get it in accordance with our law, of course, it is not disputed. Also, those who permanently moved out, it's not disputed, people who sold their property, but since we saw it months ago, we talked about it publicly, it's not disputed if someone sold property in certain places in 97 or 98 and received a certificate of emigration from the competent authorities of the state administration. But what about the people whose property was sold and they don't know they sold it. What about them, and we've detected over the past few months I don't know how many cases and we still haven't gotten the data that's really going on in that area. In other words, let us go to this job but let all those whose duty it is and whose tasks it is so that we do not do anything that is not desirable and that is not acceptable. Before we decided to talk about this topic today for the Parliament, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, two more sentences, I went to check on what it looks like in the neighbouring states. Then I was told that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, people who fled Banja Luka in 92 have, for example, had to get confirmations that they were leaving and giving up their residences. Today when they come back today, it's a problem for them to return. Therefore, we must not allow, I do not want to make comparisons, but we must not allow someone who still wants to return in these 2 or 3 years to have problems with proving that we are administratively past the will of people, who have left the country, to have a later need to prove that they have a place to live and that they have a place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34916	Thank you very much. Final review of State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34917	Thank you very much. I listened carefully and I had already said at the outset that this is a very important law that is intruding into several areas, and rights and obligations of citizens, and about the realisation of their rights. I would just briefly refer to what Mr. Pupovac said at the end of his debate, saying that the police are already checking certain residences several times and the result of these checks is nothing. I must warn that this problem with residence is related to some other institutions not only to the MUP and some other laws, but not just to the Law on election of representatives in the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. One of the big problems is the delivery of court files and acts, and that's where millions of damages occur when competent institutions and bodies try to deliver. This is particularly present at the Ministry of Justice, where, according to my data, millions of losses occur and damages precisely at numerous failed attempts to deliver to addresses where people do not live. Which is a real place to live. I agree that this law could have been, or Article 2 could have been, broader, clearer and more precise. And we will certainly strive if this Law is adopted in implementing acts to prescribe a procedure that will, to the greatest extent possible, exclude the possibility of manipulations in terms of inadequate interpretation of what is permanent or does not reside. But I repeat again that this problem is not only tied up and arises because of the implementation of the Law on Elections of Local Self-Government Representatives but is related to many other laws and life situations. It would also be good to reach consensus and start solving these questionable life situations in those cases where people's unemployment is not due to their objective possibilities but is often a matter of negligence. I absolutely agree that we must be hyper-sensitivity towards those people who, at their address of temporary residence, are not for objective reasons or even someone else's fault, but I think we must finally begin to introduce order in those situations where people have changed their place of residence, and have not reported to the MUP or have not made a change. Unfortunately, we have an absurd situation that the prescribed fine for not reporting a change of residence and there have been situations where, according to those people who have not checked out the change in residence, these fines have been imposed, but there is no solution to the fine that we cannot find. And this is an absurd situation that a prescribed fine that can't be implemented in such cases, so I say this is really a very complex question, it's a matter that's been going on for a long time, and I think this law should be passed. The MUP will make sure that in the implementing rules, as many of these cases as possible where people are not at their home address, not by their own fault, so that they do not really damage those people who are not in such a life situation by their own free will and by their own decision. I say I've really listened very carefully to all these discussions, I think that the debates were well-intentioned, and so is the intention of the MUP really correct, there are no political backgrounds in all of this, because I read it out of the debates of all of us that there is a need for this problem to be solved and we consider this bill as a correct attempt to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-23-0.u34918	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this bill not today but there 30, 31 or 1. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. In order to make it easier on the benches, you are given a purified agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pavlic. Here you go.
