ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40169	- Proposal for a law on special tax on coffee, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 309; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative like to explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40170	Thank you very much. Taxation of coffee imported into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia today is governed by the Law on special tax on coffee. In this proposal of the law that lies before you, the main provisions of the existing law such as taxpayers, the creation of a tax liability, the maturity of payment of the tax liability and the level of tax burden rates remain the same and unchanged. However, the newspaper proposed by this law is the marking of coffee in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia with stamps from the Ministry of Finance. According to the State Statistics Institute, about 19,000 tonnes of raw coffee are imported annually into Croatia. During the same period, production of about 8 thousand tonnes of fried coffee is recorded annually. In view of the quantity of imported raw coffee, the production of fried coffee should be significantly higher than around 15 tonnes. It is therefore estimated that there is a significant part of the traffic in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the gray zone and production that is taking place in an illegal manner which is causing the state budget to lose significant revenue. The introduction of this measure, i.e. the introduction of coffee stamps, is expected to generate around 70 million kuna per year for the state budget, fix the state of the coffee market in Croatia, increase traffic transparency and ensure the full legality of this production. This law does not require additional financial resources. The cost of printing stamps will be borne by the manufacturers of stamps. It is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure for state reasons for increasing budget revenues and reducing the grey economy. The adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed to introduce order on the coffee market and to place all taxpayers and processors in the same position as they carry out their tax obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40171	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honorable President of Šima Prtvenjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40172	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At its 32nd session, the Committee discussed this law on 29 June. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Introductoryly, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed law introduces a certain terminology of the Rules of Procedure on Coffee, the Regulation on Coffee and... and coffee and cocoa products and the Institute of Coffee Marketing, which is in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, marking the stamp of the Ministry of Finance. [[You don't understand.]] In this way, it wants to reduce the share of grey economy in production and transport as in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is estimated to lose around 70 million kuna annually due to illegal production and transport of coffee made by registered ovens, craft shops and other entities. The financial resources required to implement this law amounting to around 12 million kuna per year will be secured by payment of stamp users to the prescribed customs administration account before they are taken over. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure, making it faster to introduce order on the coffee market and to place all taxpayers and coffee processors in the same position as those in order to comply with their tax obligations. The Committee's discussion fully supports the introduction of marking stamps from the Ministry of Finance to mark coffee, which will allow better quality monitoring of production and transport of coffee and thus contribute to the management of the state of the coffee market in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law on special tax on coffee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40173	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, dear representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40174	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, let me say that the SDP club will support the adoption of a special tax on coffee. The basic newspaper, which is introduced in relation to the existing Act on Special Tax on Coffee, is, as stated in the explanation of the applicant, the labelling of coffee products and coffee products marked with a stamp. It's now the fourth product for which we enter such records. After alcohol, tobacco products and cigarettes, flour on which there is no payment of tax taxes, there is coffee the fourth product, which is to be introduced into the obligation of such labelling. The fact is that especially with these products that have value added tax and special tax, there are in fact the biggest manipulations and tries to avoid paying such a tax, the gray market may be bigger than other products, but what may be the worst is this unfair competition among producers. It is estimated that, through tax evasion, the budget has actually lost around 70 million kuna and this is compared to the new cost estimated at 12 million kuna due to the cost of stamps to be marked by these products, in fact, there should be no problem. Namely, the cost will be passed on to the manufacturer, the taxpayer, of course, he will try to pass it on to the final buyer. The fact is that there are significant differences in the price of coffee that do not come from quality but probably from a good part and because some of the traders do not pay all the obligations prescribed by law for this product. We would like to warn that the introduction of stamps is not in fact a complete guarantee that we will completely curb the gray market avoiding tax payments, but it will in any case facilitate control. Therefore, we would also like to warn again that it is necessary to strengthen institutions and institutions of control in production, in transport, in the provision of services, in the accounting and payment and public contributions and salaries not only for the sake of state revenue but also to ensure a constitutional obligation for each entrepreneur to provide an equal legal position on the market. We have two concrete remarks on the text of the law and we will propose amendments. The first remark concerns Article 13 concerning the keeping of the necessary records in paragraph 1 where it is said what is required in the tax payer's records to ensure. We suggest adding the quantity imported there, so that it is said that it is obliged to keep records of imported quantities, of quantities of supplies, of the quantities of raw coffee written off, etc. We believe that effective control in the production and transport of coffee is necessary in the mandatory records of the taxpayer and information on the spare quantity of coffee, as this is the only way to control both transport and supplies. The second remark concerns criminal provisions and Articles 18, 19 and 20 where penalties for offences ranging from 10 thousand to 400 thousand kuna are prescribed for legal persons. We would like to warn that this initial sentence should be increased for the infringements listed in Articles 18, 19 and 20 and that the initial sentence of 10 thousand should be increased to 50 thousand. In particular, criminal provisions provide for penalties for them to be in the range of 40 times. We believe that the minimum level of punishment should be raised because courts and therefore, mainly for violations, impose minimum fines. We believe that the proposed increase in minimum fines will reduce the range, so which is now 40% in the proposal but will also increase the financial risk of the offender and will probably take care then that given the level of penalty that is minimal, it will not enter such violations. So, here's what we're going to vote for is the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40175	Thank you very much. Club IDS, respected representative Damir Kajin and respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac will share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40176	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Madam Secretary of State! I won't be long. After me, Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac will only be two three minutes. Yes, as we've heard, the newspaper is a stamp. The point is that the loss of excise duty on coffee as it stands here is about 70 million kuna somewhere and clearly if it is necessary to protect now the state interest needs it also by introducing such a measure. However, I would like to remind you that we have also introduced a cigarette stamp, so we have introduced a flour stamp, so we have introduced a liquor stamp and that alcohol losses are especially greater in the state budget from here mentioned 70 million kunas primarily due to the absurd provision of 0.0 promil. Now the question arises when the debate will open clearly and on this point because the story of life loss due to 0.2 or 0.3 of the promiscuity is simply absurd, while in our law, airmen can drive planes or operate aircraft with 0.2 proms and seafarers with 0.5 proms. However, tobacco also generates less revenue than last year in this year's 2005 which we had the opportunity to set up with this budget for the first six months. In one word, it can be concluded that the excise duty system in the Republic of Croatia is in crisis. It is not in the "crisis" of the excise duty institute but it is in crisis to control the excise duties and so much club IDS clearly supports this measure, not at 0.0 prominence, but this stamp is certain that even if there is, and that I will end it, we will not necessarily end that absurd measure of 0.0 promila, we will destroy the wine industry, the small winemakers, the grape producers, and therefore I call on the President of the Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal or these legislative proposals of a whole series of parliamentary assemblies as soon as possible to be discussed in this house as soon as possible and not that these laws have been acidified for almost a year. Do it, Mr. President, and now the debate on this point will continue Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40177	Thank you for taking over my role. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40178	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state! As you have heard, the IDS will support this proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee, although it is introduced by emergency procedure or it is seen that it is important for the Ministry to fill the state budget as soon as possible, because the budget is not filled enough and one of the solutions is a special tax on coffee. Here, in our opinion, is not a problem with the introduction of stamps. We support the introduction of stamps, but here it's just a matter of special tax and that should be made clear. The other problem we see is bad customs control and that we have very big problems here. The system doesn't work, and I'm afraid there's also abuse of position, corruption and a lot of other things. Maybe by that logic we should introduce stamps on all the products and then we wouldn't even need customs services. The Ministry of Finance openly points out and acknowledges that the rule of law does not function, or the customs administration that is being told by the same Ministry of Finance, because under the laws that are now in force, coffee smuggling cannot be. We have concluded from the explanation of the proposal to pass laws on an urgent procedure that the ministry either does not trust or deems them insufficiently capable. Here, I'm going to quote an explanation that only the Ministry gave. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure for justified state reasons, in particular in order to reduce tax evasion based on smuggling, which has failed to stop even enhanced control measures carried out recently. Furthermore, the adoption of this emergency law is proposed in order to bring order into the coffee market faster and to place all taxpayers and coffee processors in the same position as the enforcement of their tax obligations. Citing the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia, consignments must be controlled on importation. One such consignment during imports shall pass through six records in order to follow the route of import of coffee, coffee and coffee. Coffee roasting companies are required to keep daily records of coffee consumption or how raw they are at the warehouse and how many fried coffees. At the end of the month, customs offices must deliver how much imported raw and how much fried coffee was produced. This same procedure is repeated once more and at the end of the year. So, first. The first entry records, the second 12 monthly reports and the third one annual records. After all this paperwork and with all the control, I wonder how it's even possible to smuggle coffee and how the black market even works. I understand that there used to be coffee smuggling in the former state because the choice and especially the cheaper one wasn't, so coffee smuggling was a lucrative job. Today there is a wide range of suppliers and there is a variety of offers, so smuggling is not necessary and especially for those who are serious about this business. And one of the solutions would be a special solution at the Trade Court who and under what conditions can handle coffee and not that it can be opened today and tomorrow close any crafts or company. The companies that would then be dealing with coffee would be in a special system and special monitoring. There's a lot more illogicality in the law itself. One example is that there is no mention of whether to place stamps on the morning bags in which imports of raw coffee because it is the only way to prevent smuggling that should be an imperative of this law. The best example that happened in the Republic of Croatia and proves all that I was saying and they also passed on to the media is from 2002 when an enviable amount of 140 tonnes of coffee was seized in one action. After that, the police filed criminal charges, but today after two years, we don't have a court epilogue. In February 2003, parallel to this, the seized coffee customs office sold it without a public tender with a direct offer, regardless of the raw coffee is not a corrupt goods that should naturally be sold urgently and at any price. The coffee was sold at 9 kuna even though the price was on the market, the price of raw coffee was then between 13 and 15 kuna. In addition to these failures, there is a legal breach of customs duties that could not even sell this coffee because it did not issue a solution to the confiscation of coffee. It is evident that such coffee is always sold without a tender means by direct contract and by the same buyer who is so sure about his ties in customs that he even believes that the purchased goods should not be paid. In this particular case, it is about 1.5 million kunas that did not end up where it should be, or in the state budget. For us in IDS, this kind of fraud is even worse than smuggling itself because here, in these malversions, state institutions are involved. We also know about the affairs at the customs base of the Ship on the Cup where the enormous quantities of coffee were smuggled. Of course again with the help of civil servants. BUT if we go to look a little through the law itself, there's still a lot of illogicality. I hope that through the amendments it may be correct. Article 3 also introduces chocolate stamps. So the chocolates that contain coffee will be more expensive than the other chocolates, and I wonder if maybe it's the same case then with the same chocolates that contain alcohol in them because we know that alcohol has its own stamps. As far as Article 6 is concerned, we may say that this is good because the prices of the special tax are fixed. It means that if they were to change, they would change these amounts so that they would also have to change the Law on Special Taxes again. In Article 12, where coffee can or cannot be sold, I think it is omitted to mention kiosks where newspapers are sold because coffee is sold there, and bills are not issued. As regards Articles 13 and 14 you have seen in my argument that there is enough opipirology and these articles are introduced that the Minister will also prescribe content, form and way of keeping records. I think the paperwork has been quite enough so far. In Article 22, I also believe that the minister should not lay down the rules laid down in Articles 11, 13 and 14 but should also be regulated by this Law. As far as the same fines are concerned, they are quite extensive and I think that you should perhaps specify according to the quantities for which the tonage belongs and the penalties. We will support the introduction of stamps if this is a way to prevent this kind of fraud of the state and therefore IDS will raise up for such a proposal hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40179	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Vladimir Pleško.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, a colleague, presented two of my incorrect allegations that I would like to correct. First, it found that customs duties were responsible for reducing the revenues of the state budget due to unpaid customs duties and all that I believe is not true because the customs administration charged customs duties and VAT but not a special tax, and it is evident from the bill's proposal that it is precisely a difference from customs records and from 19 thousand tonnes to 7 thousand 400 tonnes sold and I believe that it means that in that part it misread the law. The second thing that needs to be corrected is that chocolate stamps will be introduced, and it is clearly seen through the draft law, Article 3, paragraph 3, that for chocolate and similar products and so on are not considered coffee products.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40181	And another correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40182	I'm correcting two allegations. Mr. Cain's first point on how smaller revenues from excise duties on liquor smuggling are to alcohol. It's not a 0,0% problem. It's a drinking problem. The state has not taken appropriate measures to give inspectors the power to react to a temporary labour ban. So it's not just a 0,0 problem, but it's a problem that the state has no measure appropriate when the inspector finds that it's smuggling to take action, not to go to a judge for violations that will temporarily prohibit the work of a certain person, means a legal person or craftsman who deals with it. Also related to this quote as it is possible that with so much control there is a smuggling of coffee. One part doesn't go through customs at all. It means past customs. We know what our state line is. And the other part is the problem that goes through customs crossings that aren't qualified for this part of control. And that's why there should be four or five crossings like the Americans and then they'll get rid of it. Coffee can only go to one transition and you know the coffee situation is there. That's what Croatia has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40183	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40184	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Depending on this emotional attitude of my colleague, Pera Kovacevic, and here I must say that we are indeed skeptical of how this Law will live and what its results will be. Here is the basic motive of the fact that 19 thousand and 40 tonnes of raw coffee and 1398 tonnes of coffee products were imported into Croatia. It is said that the losses of the state budget caused by smuggling are rising to 70 million kuna a year. But how much will it cost to introduce stamps? Is that what we've been thinking about? How much will it cost the entire system to monitor it all together? Price estimates of stamp printing range from 12 million to 20 million kuna. How much longer will it cost to introduce them? How much longer will it cost to monitor this whole process is unknown. But it is very questionable that will finally be the real positive effects of the Law, or if we do not bring this Law into that completely absurd situation that everything we intend to earn by preventing smuggling, everything we intend to contribute to the State budget at the same time and lose either fully or at least half of it by introducing such a measure into the Croatian market. And I think that's the basic problem. Coffee, unlike flour, is not produced in Croatia. We're importing all the coffee. The same way we import pineapples, bananas, coconuts or mangoes. Everything about coffee comes across the border, or raw materials or reprocessing, and the thing is actually bad customs controls, the thing is that we don't have adequate customs services, the thing is that the whole income from coffee would actually be the easiest to charge in customs, that is, at import or at the moment when coffee enters the country. In order to do so, customs supervision really needs to be strengthened, so that there are really only some customs crossings at which coffee could be introduced. Anything else, all these experiments that are going to be introduced with stamps are of questionable benefit to us and for all these reasons, we will, depending on the continuation of the debate, think deeply about whether we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40185	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40186	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this Bill proposal, although we are not 100% convinced that it will achieve the objectives that the Proposer wrote in his explanation. Namely, the proposal is that we introduce Milos' stamps for coffee and coffee products other than chocolates and chocolates. At the time, MP Milas suggested tobacco stamps, so the alcohol came, so the flour came and now coffee. I believe that if he's in Imotski, he'll enjoy this debate because after his tobacco fight, we've come up with coffee stamps. The explanation also says that the country is losing about 70 million kuna on an annual basis because of the smugglers and the coffee smuggling, and that it is the desire to end the coffee smuggling. I believe that if all Croatian workers were to work hard every year, they couldn't fool the state for 70 million kunas of the corresponding tax, but a dozen large smugglers obviously do it year after year and that's why we're going to support this bill, although we're wondering if it's coffee smuggling through some border or customs? Where? Where does this coffee illegally enter the Croatian market? If it's through customs, I'll miss the service then the stamps won't have much effect. But obviously the problem is that Croatia has a very long soft border through which a lot of coffee is being smuggled into Croatia. Whether this bill detimises coffee smugglers and ensures the possibility that smuggling will not be profitable. I believe that no, because of the level of penalties provided for in this law and the proposing, I suggest that he accepts the amendments that his colleague Zgrebec has given, because they are really necessary. Namely, the special tax on one kilo of fried coffee is 12 kuna. At 10 tons of smuggled roasted coffee leaks or extra profit to the smuggler is 120,000 kuna, on regular 10 tons of smuggled coffee. The penalty for those 10 tonnes, suppose they don't catch him at first, but only when he's got a ton of smuggled coffee because in the jurisdiction of inspection, it's the State Inspectorate we know doesn't have enough footage, that he can't regularly control all the shops, shops, shops, shops, kiosks and where coffee is sold. So the penalty is 10,000 and it'll take away a ton of coffee that's 20 grand fried. That's 35, but he made 120,000. 12, come on. One against forty is the penalty, 1:40, from 10,000 to 400,000. Let's take a look at the practice reports of the criminal courts. Not only for the first time, but for repeated applications, the pronunciation of measures is always given minimum penalties. So if we really want to achieve the objective of reason, then I ask you that criminal sanctions policy must be so much and so not worth smuggling. These fines are worth smuggling, and what's that reason? Which is an explanation why the punishments of 1:40. What's he gonna make up his mind? What's the amount of coffee smuggled? The amount of profit earned or where it's from and whose it's from. However, if you look at Article 19, that the same range of penalties is also for those infringements that do not depend on the level of coffee smuggled and earnings because it says that the penalty is 10 to 400,000 if it does not provide conditions for supervision. So it has nothing to do with the quantity. It shall not interfere with an authorised person in the exercise of supervision on import, export, payment of taxes. I'm obstructing an authorized person, I'm being punished by ten, and someone with 400,000 for the same offense. There's no reason for that. And if it's the interest of the state budget in 70 million kuna, let's do it. But through the criminal provisions, then it must be a means and a way for no one to do it, and then we'll have one of those and so even this proposal from 50 to 400 is enough, but this 10 to 400,000 I don't see any reasonable reason and reason to keep it that way in this law. Because if you don't, the introduction of stamps won't stop the smuggling of coffee in retail. And the biggest instrumentation is obviously control and control right in retail, which is why you're proposing stamps. The fine of 10,000 to 10 tons is stimulating, rewarding, encouraging. Reach your goal with a fine of 400,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40187	Thank you very much. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40188	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, coffee is a potion without which I don't think this Parliament would work well either, and that's not controversial. Everything else with coffee is controversial. Imports first. We've heard that over 20,000 tons of coffee was imported, and there's a certain trail of about 7,400 tons. It's hard to accept that nearly 13,000 tons have disappeared in the famous and attractive smell of coffee, and it's precisely the smell of coffee that we can spot a series of illegal ovens that fry more coffee than legal ones. It is disputed how many coffees go through customs unregistered and what the customs pay should be if it doesn't happen. Then the estimated loss of the state budget of 70 million kuna would be more realistic and more. Coffee problems are often filled with newspaper columns. Let's remember three, four years ago, forged packaging and huge amounts of coffee, I think, in Dubrava, which I think are so much paved in the market and small shops, and as I remember, to discover that gray plasma is more of a legitimate factory that they almost destroyed than those whose job it is. This proposal for a law on special tax on coffee, which is primarily manifested at the introduction of marks for the labelling of goods in transport in the Republic of Croatia, is certainly good. It would be interesting to look at the analysis of the results of the introduction of tobacco stamps, alcoholic beverages and flour. How much wheat was processed in the period 2001 to 2003 on black, if 65% of the companies that received wheat for renewal from supply went bankrupt. It's a tough coincidence. I believe that this well-organized robbery will not happen again and that the judiciary will solve a number of subsequent lawsuits. Despite the stamps and significant quantities of cigarettes, they complete the gray market offer. If counterfeit bills are less and less visible thanks to highly equipped illegal printing, how to spot counterfeit stamps. I hope our patriots buy cigarettes in the market at least ask if the stamp is original. There won't be any stamps on the coffee cup, so coffee lovers can only guess if they fill the budget or contribute to the number of horses in the owner's car, and that's where the inspectors of the State Inspectorate jump in. Assuming that they are doing our job in quality or correct, we come to the question of the frequency of inspection and punishment. It's not too big for smuggling. I think we need to look up to some developed countries so we can shut down stores for example. for a week, 15 days, a month and finally definitely. The effect would certainly be greater. We look forward to... Financial police, but how to earn a person with high education, experienced and to meet all criteria in a financial officer. [[You don't understand.]] Such individuals can easily find jobs in private companies with significantly higher pay and better working conditions. Clearly combined with cash payments. It is therefore necessary to make a serious analysis of the Customs Administration, State inspections and future financial inspections and to assess how much revenue they can make but with which investments. That's where the Pharisees should definitely forget. Should the stamps be introduced to Chinese goods, Turkish goods from the textile industry before they destroy our textile industry? Unfortunately, undeclared workers and employers who abuse their work cannot solve it with stamps, but coffee can and can do very well, so the HDZ club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40189	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40190	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Secretary of State. The HSS Club wishes to join all those who think that there are reasons for the adoption of this bill and that these solutions will address, eliminate or minimise the gray market for the transport of final production and trade in coffee. Of course, it is clear to us that the circumstances in which the traffic of goods is taking place both externally and internally are working on whether it will succeed and whether what the bill proposes or does not come to pass. Those circumstances that occur in the traffic of such goods or similar goods mean those goods on which we have already tried the marketing institute, meaning alcohol, flour, tobacco, etc. If we had some comparisons, we would probably be able to deal with possible positive reasons for the adoption of this bill, if we knew that institutes such as the introduction of stamps on these products that have a characteristic similar feature on the market are, in particular, goods of broad consumption, goods that are spent unrelated to the economic situation. They're almost out of budget in terms of consumption, they're something you just don't have to have. Therefore, these circumstances further make it more difficult to deal with the gray market in the regulatory control and especially when it comes to coffee, but also about those before. We have these two time groups. We have a time group where coffee as a commodity was primarily carried within the meaning of the so-called. shopping tourism. It was almost natural for every car in Croatia to have one, two kilograms per head, I don't know what it's like. The introduction of a competitive offer on the Croatian market stopped the need for such a supply method and, of course, was held, it was calculated that only the market would further regulate the grey position of these products on the market. Of course, this did not happen because the attractiveness of the ability to earn, and it is indicated here in some 70 million kuna a year, speaks of an extremely attractive product on the market that can be measured with a product that also has a huge value such as intoxicating drugs, etc. It's about the attractiveness that exists. Of course, the coffee market and the coffee itself as a product has its specificity that it is not in Croatia. So we eliminate Croatia as the source source from where it can be or where it should be. In that sense, when it comes to goods as finished or as raw materials or semi-product or product enters Croatia, then we know where we need to focus our attention in terms of eliminating the non-indentification of raw materials or products or semi-products in Croatia. So it's customs. It's about the service that's in charge of the control and control of the goods. It is also a matter of certain importers who, in most cases, appear to be wholesale importers, so they sort of control the total market. Those smaller importers or speculators that appear, they are not themselves enough to affect as much as 70 million kunas per year are assumed to be missing due to unfair treatment. There is therefore a whole range of measures that can also be taken in terms of fiscal and customs policy in terms of resolving this, but also similar positions that can occur in one country. Not everyone imports clearly of oil today. There are exactly licensed positions of importers. There's something that can be regulated in those measures or zones that colleagues here have talked about. To go back to the very meaning of the law. What would not be good if it came from the introduction of a stamp that we support, which is that this amount that is estimated to be to enter the state register so that it does not break on the consumer, so that there is no movement of this part to the price so that it does not reflect what sometimes happens in our terms and circumstances, unfortunately, because then the clear meaning of the law would not be affected. Of course, the issue of criminal policy and the way of sanctioning is absolutely very important and colleague Dragica has very well seen these shortcomings, and we also join the amendments to Article 19 and a very restrictive reduction in the range from bottom to top because the latter indicates that both consciously or unconsciously we are leaving room not to solve the problem completely. We therefore absolutely support restrictive behaviour in terms of fines by reducing the range and punishment that should be in line with that assessment of 70 million kuna. That is, by holding that this bill will in some way be complemented and corrected by this possible adoption of amendments to the HSS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40191	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I support every effort by the government to put order in a country where there's a mess, and even that effort that's supposed to be in vain. I'm afraid this effort is just like that because let's look at what happened to tobacco products. We put these stamps on tobacco products, so go to any market and see how many cigarettes are sold without stamps. And what's going on here? Nothing's going on. The gray market, the black market normally exists with what is legal with stamps. I'm afraid something like that will happen with coffee. Yes, in the store you will buy coffee with stamps on which excise duty is paid, on which today you are paid excise duty and in open markets you will have coffee sold without stamps as cigarettes are sold today. And your loss will be the same. But if order was already to be introduced, and order should be introduced, then my second question is, and what took so long, a year and a half, because about before that time Minister Schuker then another representative said that if he was a minister, he would earn 2 billion kuna on a better charge of excise duties. Where's his $2 billion? Here comes the budget rebalance. He's missing. He didn't make any money, he lost. Now he's panicking when he sees he's lost, so let's go quick after a year and a half of the government's coffee stamp. This law actually has four new articles compared to the existing one. These are the four articles that introduce stamps. Well, I guess in a year and a half, there could have been four articles, I guess, but obviously it couldn't be done, so it's been done for a year and a half. So it was written for a year and a half and here's what was written between those years and a half. In the assessment of the situation, the introduction of marketing stamps in the Republic of Croatia is one of the forms of supervision already checked on tobacco products and alcohol and alcoholic beverages including flour as if flour were a kind of alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Article 11(5) states: "No sale of coffee, transport of coffee without documents on the purchase or export, purchase or possession of coffee is permitted in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia if the coffee is not marked with marking stamps or if it is marked with counterfeit stamps.". So please, forging a stamp is the same thing as forging money, producing a fake document. This is part of the Penal Code, and it would be about the same thing to you as if you wrote in the final terms a fine of 10 to 400 thousand kuna will be fined by a legal person if that is so, but that penalty must not be paid by counterfeit money. Same thing. But speaking of criminal provisions, in addition to what Mrs. Lesar and Mrs. Zgrebec said on behalf of the club, it is unacceptable that the minimum penalty is 10 thousand kuna, because the most ordinary calculation of the cost of breaking the law shows that the penalty is too small and that it will not produce a purpose or purpose. That she won't turn away any offenders from committing a crime. He's confusing something else. In the current law, the suspended sentence for a responsible person in a legal person was from a thousand to 40,000 kuna and in the new law that you are proposing, you are reducing it from a thousand to 15 thousand kuna. So you're reducing the suspended sentence and the maximum for the responsible person in the legal person. Is that the ministry already has in mind who might be in favour of such a reduction in the sentence, and what is not explained in the draft law? Why reduce the suspended sentence for a responsible person in a legal person from a maximum of 40 to 15 thousand kuna? Why? What's the reason for that? Encourage smuggling? Maybe if that's the reason. So on the one hand, we're going to stick stamps and on the other hand we're going to ease the penalty for those who don't respect the law and not the nice stamps. Then that makes sense. But if we want to introduce order as claimed, then there's no point in reducing the impediment, but it makes sense to increase. It's logical, but it's not logically settled in this law, so I expect the amendments to be adopted, I can write it myself when the ministries won't write it, so we expect it to be accepted so that the intention to add criminal provisions appropriate to the purpose of the law is shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40193	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40194	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague of the Stazic. He says why he's been waiting a year and a half from solving this problem. You've been waiting five years to solve this problem. The State Inspectorate has delivered everything to the former government with proposals for measures, has done nothing, and the truth is that this one has been waiting for a year and a half. And there's still a lot of things about this proposal, like the State Inspectorate Act, the State Penalty and everything. That's what we're waiting for, and that's why I'm protesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40195	Okay. Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40196	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here, many predecessors have already pointed out in front of me that about 20 thousand and 500 tonnes of coffee is being imported into our country and that only about 7.5 thousand tonnes of coffee and all other differences of 13 and several thousand tonnes are being made on some roads in the Republic of Croatia, whether it is being processed in illegal ovens, craft workshops or in some other workshops where its traffic is not registered or sold. In my view, it is certainly an illegal business that is actually causing great damage to the state and the state budget from the customs duty on export, of course to this particular tax and sales tax. In order to reduce the share of this grey economy in the production and transport of coffee, it is proposed to pass this law, which I think tends to do, to bring order to the production and transport of coffee in the Republic of Croatia. The State Secretary herself pointed out here that, that all the issues about the production and transport of coffee have already been regulated by the Coffee Tax Act, which was brought in 1997 and which so far has been completed three times, but it has not included these solutions regarding the control of the production, traffic and of course the manipulation of coffee and coffee products. The applicable law has arranged the subject matter of taxation. Who are the bounds of this special coffee tax? What's a tax base? The creation of a tax liability and payment of a special tax. Keeping records and drawing up reports that taxpayers are obliged to keep and deliver to the competent authorities, then tax supervision and, of course, sanctions for infringements of certain provisions of the law. This proposal fully maintains the regulation of those institutes under the applicable law by introducing certain terminology with the Coffee and Coffee Products Regulation which was adopted by that Regulation sometime in 2004. All amendments to the provisions in force are without fiscal consequences. Therefore, the discussions of my individual distinguished colleagues that the adoption of this Act could result in the possible consequences of the purchase of coffee and coffee products on the market of the Republic of Croatia, are not justified. Because this isn't the introduction of any new taxes and new taxes. This is only an order of those who illegally operate either in the processing or in the transport of coffee in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction, introduction of the stamp or marking of the coffee is governed by the regulations of Article 6 of this proposal, and the marking will be done as I have already highlighted that mark by the Ministry of Finance, which will have the text on it, indicating that it is the mark of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance. It'll have a volume, a letter mark and a number. And she, the amount of coffee intended for export, will have to have a special export stamp on which the word for export will also be indicated. In contact with the representatives of our ministry, I tried to find out what kind of work really is going on here. And I got information that we have about 140 importers of coffee and this data that imports of 20 thousand and 500 tonnes of coffee are actually official data that have been obtained through the State Statistics Office and are based on data from our Customs Administration. I think it's immaterial to talk about some illegal import although it certainly exists as it exists for all goods but there's no data in it. This Law will therefore regulate the realisation of this internal transport of processing, production and trade in coffee and, of course, export. According to the data I also obtained from our ministry, we have registered about 200 processors. And that's the problem. Therefore, all those who today have a nice 13 and a few thousand tonnes of coffee with it will enter the register of manufacturers and traffic and all that goes with it in the Republic of Croatia. Here's Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues I think this law is a quality law that will introduce order on the coffee market, and that's exactly his intensity, and that's why I'm going to support it in its, uh, adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40197	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40198	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. This debate today has obviously triggered a good discussion about the coffee market and some other things. In particular, it was observed through this debate, the issue of coffee smuggling and the internal market within Croatia with coffee and coffee products. This Bill proposal, I will first discuss it, talks about domestic traffic means coffee and coffee products on the Croatian market. There is a particular point to point out that all my colleagues so far have over 20 thousand tonnes of coffee and coffee products imported into the Croatian market but that only 7 thousand 500, about 7 thousand 400 tonnes of coffee and coffee products on the Croatian market have been recorded through the special tax collection system. That's the problem this bill solves. Where did that 13,000 tons of coffee go? I believe that the introduction of stamps is very important so that it can be monitored with all the provisions of the articles in the draft law, so that this traffic can be monitored on the Croatian market. Because I have to remind you of an example like this, a banal one. Which would be in the Republic of Croatia if customs registered 19 thousand imported cars and eventually 7 and a half thousand were only registered as new. Where, then, would that be the loss of the Croatian state budget? But I have also given myself a little effort in these few days since this bill came out, so I went to the markets in both the city of Zagreb and the area of Krapina-Zagorska County. And that's exactly why we see the need to introduce stamps? How much goods, so coffee is sold on Croatian markets? How many customers get for that coffee? How much did VAT charge for that coffee? And for this very reason, I believe that this revenue of 70 million kuna may be too little in the Croatian budget. Because I believe that through the excise duty itself, through tax, VAT which will be able to be better controlled on coffee and on all coffee products that Croatian budget revenue will be far greater. Another example. How many times have many of you been sitting in a bar and seen a coffee delivery at the coffee shop? Whether or not a delivery note has been added or an dispatch signed by the owner of a coffee shop or by an employee in a cafe. I believe you could see very few times that some papers were signed. If there's no delivery in the cafe, then there's not even that coffee that was sold at the coffee shop later on in that coffee shop's tax return. And that is why I believe that these 70 million kunas may be too little of the planned revenue of the Croatian state budget. Likewise, when a person looks at everything that is happening and what is said today in this debate, there should be none and there should not be any respected colleagues and colleagues who would not support such an example of the introduction of order in the Croatian market. Because the Croatian state must make sure that all that is made in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is properly taxed because these are revenues that we need later on for some of the other expenditures that the Republic of Croatia has. Because when 70 million kunas are counted times 10 or 15 years of the Croatian State, that is 700 or over a billion kuna, how many schools, how many playgrounds, etc. So we have to do everything we can to make as much money as possible in the Republic of Croatia's budget. And that is why I fully support the introduction of this law, the introduction of stamps means coffee and coffee products because it will greatly improve the control of domestic coffee traffic. And just a few words in the end about what I said at the very beginning. Doubts of smuggling. Smuggling is something that is illegally entering the Republic of Croatia and is not registered anywhere. It was one of the little mistakes said by counterpart Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, because smuggling is something else entirely. Therefore, I support the position of my colleague, Krona Markovinović, who said that with 35,000 kuna paid, inspectors cannot be done much because many are subject to regret and some low bribery needs, etc. Today-to-morrow there should be a little more concern in that part too, so with adequate awards for inspectorial services I think we could solve and that part means smuggling which is illegal means part of the black market of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40199	Thank you very much. The time has expired at 13.00 hours for the hearing application on this point. Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40200	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I really think that all well-intentioned should support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law for the reasons it regulates and in some way brings one clean situation to the Croatian coffee market and coffee processing.Its primary aim is of course to prevent the gray market although it is hard to believe, it is only possible in the theory that the gray market will disappear. However, the objective should be to minimise the gray market. The interest is also the state, i.e. the state budget, given that the estimates of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce say that the state budget loses around 70 million kuna per year on different grounds due to such a gray market. Interested in the adoption of this law are also large processors, those who report and those who regularly pay for all the benefits and obligations in the transport of coffee. There are already 21 thousand tonnes of imports, 7 thousand and 400 tonnes of approximately so-called coffee products and sales where 14 thousand tonnes of coffee went missing. It is certainly also in the process if it is frying, then one part is reduced if we are talking about weight, but certainly two thirds of that initial amount of weight cannot go away. So this must be about the smuggling that needs to be prevented in every way. The introduction of marking stamps, however, has proved to be a good approach and a good way for tobacco products, alcohol, and flour. It has enabled better monitoring of traffic, easier and faster detection of illegal procedures, and I am sure that the introduction of marking stamps will contribute to making it so for coffee and coffee processing. That is why I support the adoption of this law, because it will, however, help to reduce the grey market and make the state budget of its revenues in larger amounts and achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40201	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40202	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government. I welcome the appearance of the bill, because we are returning to a very painful and important topic in Croatia, which is the problem of the gray economy. It's a fairly wide area, a part of it affects, and this part of it is related to coffee. We know it's an area of tobacco and cigarettes smuggling, alcohol smuggling, so let's take both oil derivatives and everything else, and that country is losing huge revenues. We've been running and it's a good solution that there's a flour stamp introduced, that we've calculated exactly that the state means on black-smuggling flour it's lost up to a billion kuna of income in the state budget and here's probably an amount far higher than it's shown. I think it would be the best version of the comparison of how much coffee is spent in Croatia at the level of the year that the GFK does around and how officially it means coffee has entered the country. So that's a big problem and I personally welcome the introduction of this section of the stamp. This is part of the measures that the State Inspectorate designed in 2001 and sent to the former government as well, had no time to deal with, this one is starting to deal slowly. But speaking of which, this is just the beginning of solving that problem. This is just the beginning of solving this problem, because there are a lot of other changes and additions to regulations and actions to ensure that the state has full control over all these things that are happening and that it does not lose the revenue that is essentially its. I'd just say that nobody's mentioned it yet, with coffee it's not just the problem of this part that there's no surveillance, so it's going in without the customs control of coffee in the country, the problem is, you know, the "Frank" case, the "Podravka" case, it's even making coffee from... "Franca" and it's a big problem too. Frank has lost a huge amount of money, and we know that's the problem with the vegetation, and there's more and more of that from day to day. Not to talk about that situation is the problem here in Croatia and related to both meat and other things. The problem is that we perform customs and, officially, what enters small-scale or customs crossings that are not trained to do so. Croatia must think about four to six customs crossings, 4 to 6 customs crossings where it would be controlled precisely and known where it could enter and exit. America has this situation that bananas can only enter California, they can't be imported anywhere else to America, they can only be imported to that customs crossing. And it means that even those machinations, we have to think about it, that one of the solutions is that we have four to six transitions. So, according to the boundaries, we know what our limit is. We do not have full control or control, but in addition to this section 4 to 6 border crossings where it will be precisely determined, it is still important that under the urgent need to go to amend and supplement the State Inspectorate Act and give those powers which will be not in terms of sanctioning, but in terms of prevention. And there will be measures, a temporary measure of banning work until the month today, that is, if the severity of the violations is longer and more, confiscation against the legally acquired property benefits. We know what the situation is with working on black and all. But for this part, it's an important project that other countries have. It's a state register project, when the state presents everything in wholesale and retail to the cash register, but nothing can go beyond that register. They have no right to enter that part and then apply these measures. So, it won't be possible for that variant to be found either in retail or wholesale, because the state's inspector, the state's entry program, is not the right one to get from the state of that register anything to enter. If the entry is known that legal measures are provided for in the sense that it will be prohibited to work, whether it is a craftsman, whether it is a commercial society and at any moment there is a lot of knowledge, full truth. You know, it's impossible for something to go through in a retail sale without a stamp, to come out of the wholesale. When such a government register has both wholesale and retail, it also ultimately serves as a calculation for the payment of all and VAT, all other taxes and this particular tax. It's a small expense for the country, but it's a great benefit. A small expense. That way, we're going to bring this area of the gray economy down to about 4 to 5%, and we're going to get much bigger. So these are all the projects that were designed in the State Inspectorate long ago I say, and it's good that they finally started to solve themselves, but we have to put all these things at the same time and this part of the amendment and addition of the State Inspectorate Act. You remember when we brought this section to the residence tax, now we have what I warned about. If we don't change the State Inspectorate Act, only one who is officially registered as a tenant will be controlled, and all others who are not registered and renting an inspector cannot enter it, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Inspectorate Act has not been passed. And now the inspectors are going back to those who are legal. That's the situation here. When we do something, we figure it out this way. I say, I also said things that aren't here, and the system that makes up the whole and then give authority to the inspection. I'm not saying it's for sanctioning, but it's for prevention, because anyone who deals with both wholesale and retail will get a good idea when they have a government register, when they know that at any time they're going to find out that they're not going to be able to sell or sell goods in retail that didn't go through that part, because the inspector is going to catch him. There isn't. So it's very simple control, and he can't change the program. It's not expensive for the state, but it's a big benefit. I personally say, I support this part but I suggest that the government go into that part, to amend and supplement the State Inspectorate Act and this project of the state register. Let's solve what we can solve, not always complain about how we have small incomes and give inspection of the powers we need not for sanctioning, but for prevention, and everyone has forgotten that part. Look, 40% of all the requests for a misdemeanor procedure go out of date, they go out of date because they use that possibility of appeal to the High Court, so she didn't get a call, I did get a call, no calls and all these different variations. Therefore, we must react in all these parts, but I say responsibly let the state take what is hers, then we will have money for all other things and for their projects. So, let's take care of this situation once, but in the full sense of what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40203	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40204	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to say a few thoughts and opinions about this problem that is very important to our country. Coffee is strategic raw materials. It seems to me that part of international well-organised crime is a very lucrative business, so it is no wonder that the situation on our market is the same in some similar correlation. Coffee and this law can't really and isn't a blow to consumers, and all coffees don't need to be afraid of this. Likewise, all those who are legally operating should not be afraid of these measures, but these measures should be feared by those others who are not actually on the market. And that market is unsettled so often that I actually ask myself well, on the one hand, the state should be very efficient and control one part of the legal market in terms of implementing the rules. On the other hand, of course the adoption of those rules, and on the third hand, there should be support for those who are legally operating. However, those who do illegal business seem to be becoming a role model, for in our society, they are the role models of those who come easily to money and play the country. That's why I absolutely support this lawmaking. I'm even sorry it hasn't been brought before. Likewise, I think that this adoption of this law should be harmonised, that is to say, to bring other laws in line with it. I'm sorry I couldn't discuss it yesterday. Here I repeat the story of civil servants, tenants and other participants in the law enforcement process. We can't say that someone's paid a little or a lot, so they will or won't do a certain job. The customs officer at the border can't say I'm a little paid, so I'm not going to do the corral. Either a cop on the road or any other participant in law enforcement. That is why I absolutely advocate that the status of these people is defined, but they must be aware of who has accepted this function that he must bear both well and badly because he must also protect the state and society within his own activities. We are aware that our border is so pornic, but often they give us criticisms and remarks from outside, so for example, they say you have to coordinate the number of officers or the number of customs officers with an average of Europe, and they forget many of them, especially our southern neighbours and others. And I'll be free to say right now during the summer, what personal imports are other than these imports. We're talking about imports registered from some 19 and a half thousand tons, and then we're talking about some more 1,3 or 4 reprocessings, as much as seven and a half thousand tons of what's registered. What about what's unregistered? I'm afraid there's a lot more to hide here than this, and that's why law-making needs to be urgently passed, but also to take all these other measures that will try to protect the domestic market at the border and protect those who are legally operating. Recently, when they were from the IMF mission, and as a joke and a digration, they pointed out, so they asked what was wrong with registering oil, derivatives and all that was mentioned, etc. Then I say that it seems to me that we Croats have managed to patent Americans with some invisible aircraft, and we have some invisible tanks when they transport oil and derivatives, and now I think trucks that transport coffee and coffee processing, because the difference is that it actually worries that difference, whether it's 70 or how many millions of revenues will be increased, and of course it needs to be addressed in all sectors to reduce those who are legally operating, or to reduce their taxation. And that's why this law needs to be passed urgently, but prepared for other laws and border control, because these days we're witnessing at least writing about meat and everything else. Therefore, I absolutely support the adoption of this law and support all measures of border control so that our welcome is not questionable, but also the smugglers would certainly be placed under certain control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40205	Thank you very much. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40206	Thank you very much. At first, I want to say that without any continuance, I support the adoption of this law and more than that. I also want to support the proposed amendments that have been talked about here and to further ask the proposing representatives to accept these amendments because it is certainly one of the additional ways to improve the repression of smuggling because this law actually contributes to this, but this law as well as any other law has and will continue to be a hole in it and many will try to bypass it and therefore it is good to do what is possible, which is recognizable in advance that such avoidance or circumvention of the objective that the law seeks to achieve is avoided. However, I want to point out some of the problems that will remain in this society that will remain and will cause both the state and the state budget and the serious economics dealing with coffee in this case, and in some other cases, may be dealing with some of the other productions that they have in this society and which we will not solve by any law, however good and however perfect and however little a hole in them. Namely, the predecessors used to say here, right now, a colleague of the Wrestlers mentioned something that I want to mention. If we are to justify the poor performance of the state service or the impediment to the provision of public service or the loss of tax because there is insufficient control or we are not supervised enough and we are not sanctioning law enforcement in order for civil servants to have low wages, then we will never solve this problem. I know a lot of factory workers who have a lot less pay than employees so work without any mistake their work, produce products that are also without error. They're small, but they're working. I also know a lot of civil servants who are too happy to have this job so no matter how small their pay is, they feel they're ahead of everything they do for the state because it's the safest job. And second of all, they have a job unlike any other. But I'm also going to warn you about something that I warned you about yesterday, and today, just before today, my colleague Prtnječa mentioned our relationship, the attitude of the state, the attitude of politics and politicians towards conscious civil servants and unconscious civil servants. Unfortunately, it is not rare for conscious civil servants, who are in most cases exactly customs officers, to be punished for good work and good results. I know examples of where it started, going with young interns counting that they didn't get into some kind of circle of corruption so that after finishing the traineeship with the best grades sent home, they were told customs didn't need them. A month or two later, the customs office opened a tender which should be served as a cover because the customs administration has opened a tender which should be served as a cover for receiving some of the old or receiving again some agreed, although the traineeship or the traineeship has passed, have passed the exams neatly, have obtained qualifications in order to bring about the repression of smuggling that is not unique to Croatia. The answer to these questions is not given by this law. The answer to these questions is unfortunately not given by the state administration either. The state administration and I will now say the Government of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately does not show the will to suppress such negative consequences as ultimately resulting in a 70-million-dollar estimated loss per year. It's not small and it's just an estimated loss. If you talk to those who are the most endangered and are legal manufacturers, the legal importers of coffee will tell you that this figure is probably bigger. And another note. It's said to be hard to contain smuggling because you don't know that. It's been said here today that you don't even know exactly what that amount of coffee is. Unfortunately, you know. The police and customs know that. But it doesn't seem enough. It's clear, because if I heard the story about it, I unfortunately don't have instruments and I'm not authorized or competent or responsible for implementing those measures that the police have to take. The fight against organised crime, and when we talk about coffee, it's about organised crime. It doesn't seem enough. Why, we all know that as well. Organized crime corrupts civil servants, government officials. But we need to be more effective in fighting such corruption, in fighting organised crime, in fighting crime that, on the burden of citizens, taxpayers gain huge profits and in a closed circle, this corruption happens. And I repeat, that we have a different relationship, a relationship on the basis of criteria to those who are in debt and with small salaries or perhaps with small wages compared to what they can gain from highly profitable crime in order to be effective, in order to be motivated, we must apply the criteria, the same criteria to everyone, not to the small door, those who, in their hearings with organised crime, work at the expense of the state budget, at the expense of Croatia's development and what is done here to the great harm of legal producers who, in the end of the day, are responsible for what we are passing this law. Unfortunately, it is not, this law is not brought under pressure I would say losses in the state budget and not only the result of the work of the state administration but it is passed and has come to this Parliament under the pressure of legal producers. Thank them, and we all have a very important reminder that the state administration must function on criteria, that good and valuable should progress and then contribute to the repression of bad things and that all others should be removed from that service, should be punished, be publicly called and not protected often by politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40207	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40208	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So we at the Democratic Center hold that long ago, it was long ago that such measures were to be taken. In their discussions, colleagues and colleagues have already presented a series of arguments as to why it should have been. First, one of the basic reasons is to put all the citizens, all the entities in the state in an equal legal position before the law. The situation as it is now, we are holding one part of the economic operators in a difficult position. Secondly, by these measures, this law that is now proposed here will likely try to correct the injustices that have been done to those producers who have suffered likely significant losses in their business. Those producers who are, who employ more workers and so on. So there was still reason to take this measure and this one law significantly, significantly earlier. There's another reason mentioned here, and that's the state budget. Never money enough even if there were better opportunities in the country it would certainly be good to charge money and direct it towards those projects that are of general importance, general benefits for citizens. Furthermore, it would be good to say that, if I personally supported this proposal to sharpen penalties not because someone were to train strictness but to create an atmosphere that, that one prevention would be one part of the job that would prevent many malfeasances because they say 50% of the good prevention is I say 50% of the good work done because all those who after that chain of their jurisdiction and control of imports of these products will be able to do this job more easily and quality. That is why I think it is time for the state to show its strength and its principle in protecting the interests of its citizens and protecting and creating the security of its citizens. I wouldn't be much longer. I'd say another sentence. It is now time for the tourist season when the ideal circumstances for import, arrival, uncontrolled imports of many products are, among other things, coffee itself. I hope that our customs officers who are here mention that they will not now begin to train the strictness and application of this Law to the fact that now one of our tourists who comes from some neighbouring countries will start to apply this Law to these tourists and so on. In any case we support this Law he should have been brought much, much earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40209	Thank you very much, very much, for the final consideration of State Secretary Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40210	Thank you very much. I would like to actually thank all those who have supported the adoption of this Law and this direction of movement. What I would still like to say and look back is that the problem of smuggling and, and the explanation of why there is a smuggling must not be and I think it is not right for the people who work in the customs service to be reduced to the corruption of customs and to condition and explain the existence of smuggling and the suspicion of the existence of smuggling by poor customs service work. I want to say the customs service is made up of people who do their job responsibly under difficult conditions under the law. If there are irregularities in the customs service then they are also carried out and resolved in accordance with the Law. Therefore, it is also this proposal to introduce coffee stamps because it will allow one of the areas where smuggling is possible to be closed. It is likely that this Law will not close any space for smuggling, but what is important will allow that space to be reduced. And the very nature of the stamps as an instrument which, which is monitored in a different way than that, will allow for indirect monitoring of both the work and the work of officials in the customs administration. Because I also want to remind you that the way that it is now done and the reason why stamps are introduced is going to, they will eventually enable all of us to see if the product we buy in retail, wholesale, or at any stage of its turnover is really on it and paid and paid taxes. Today, the tax is charged but the coffee we buy and drink we can't know for sure if it's done? It is, therefore, an effort in the right direction, and I would not agree, therefore, that it is a vain effort as it was said here at one point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40211	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Third, the Final Proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee. I have amendments. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shucker, to be made known about the amendments. First amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40214	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Then we have the amendment representatives of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40215	Amendment No 1 to Article 13 cannot be accepted because we consider that Article 13(1) is a well-regulated record of the quantity of supplies, the quantity of raw materials of imports and exports and the production in the processing and sale of coffee. Therefore, the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40216	There are no honourable MPs, we must vote. Please engage. We can vote. 36 for, 2 abstentions and 67 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. The second amendment to Article 18 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40217	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40218	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The third amendment to Article 19 shall be published in the Official Journal of
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40219	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40220	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the law. Article 20(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40221	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40222	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Then we have amendments to the respected representative, Nenad Stazic. Amendment one to Article 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40223	Part of this amendment is consummated in the amendment of Ms. Zgrebec so that this amendment to Article 18(2) to increase the amount of a thousand kunas to an amount of five thousand kunas cannot be accepted because the basic penalties have been increased, and the penalty for a responsible person who does not allow control is considered to be appropriate and sufficient to remain in view of this increased penalty. Since Article 18 of Mrs Zgrebec's amendment in paragraph 1 has increased the fine from 10 thousand to 50 thousand as a minimum then we consider that the fines in paragraph 2 are fines to interfere with the control of thousands to 15 thousand kunas and that they should not be increased, and one part of your amendment has already been consumed in Mrs Zgrebec's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40224	Mr. Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40225	I understand Mrs. Zgrebec has given an amendment that regulates penalties for legal persons. This is, this article or this amendment regulates penalties for a responsible person in a legal person and therefore could not be consummated by amendment colleague Zgrebec because it is another substance, there is a legal person there and here a responsible person in the legal person. The amendment proposes that these thousand kunas should be raised to 5 thousand kunas, and given the practice of criminal courts, which in general... minimum penalties. That minimum penalty of a thousand kuna doesn't seem enough to me because it's going to be stimulating for coffee traffickers. They will count on it to pass with a fine, minimum penalty of a thousand kuna, and the amount of 40 thousand kuna is not removed from the hat but exists in the applicable law. Now, in a law that is valid until we vote this one, there's a maximum impediment penalty of 40 thousand kuna for a responsible person in a legal person, so it's unclear why it was reduced from 40 to 15. Whether or not it wants to stimulate actually smugglers not to comply with the law because there's a penalty that's already been 40 you're reducing to 15 maximum penalty. So, therefore, in the interest of suppressing coffee smuggling, which is your urgency, I suggest we vote on this amendment and support it by the Parliament to detimise the smugglers, not stimulate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40226	If it was the Minister's misunderstanding on the amendment, give another indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40227	No, Mr. President. If I can give you an additional indication. This is about penalties for physical... , and given what the average salary in Croatia is, if you take that minimum penalty to be 5 thousand kuna, then it is inappropriate in terms of economic power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because a responsible person doesn't have to be the owner and director of a company. A responsible person can also be the man who handles the fry. However, I think this, such a proposal for punishment that Mrs. Zgrebec has suggested that legal persons be punished, that this minimum sentence be increased, that this is okay, and that is what we have accepted. But we believe that what Mr. Stazic proposes is beyond the economic possibilities of most of those who do. Because I'm saying, we need to consider the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and we need to talk about this way to encourage coffee smuggling. I wouldn't characterize it as I should, but I think the very intensity of this government to introduce a coffee stamp goes towards stopping it. So something else could have been done long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40228	Gentlemen, we heard the argument and the minister and... Well, because you claimed that he was manifesting himself in terms of not your amendment but something else. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, let's put it to a vote because that's the procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 42 for four abstentions, 63 against. 2nd Amendment of Mr Stazic to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40229	The 2nd amendment is accepted because this is about the interference of the supervised persons. So we accept that the fine increases from a thousand to 5 thousand and increases the amount of 15 to 40 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40230	Thank you. Amendment 2 to Article 19 of Trazic was adopted and became an integral part of the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40231	Article 20 of Trazic's amendment is also accepted. I'd like to say, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40232	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. Thank you. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40233	I would like to say because of this laugh and everything that Mr. Stazic's 1st amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40234	No, Minister, we can't. Unfortunately, he does not allow procedures, Minister. He can't, I can't let you because I have no right to allow you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 106 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the law was passed along with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue at 3 p.m., and we will first discuss the proposal for a Declaration of Support for Croatian-Hungarian Candidateship, a candidate for the European Football Championship EURO 2012, then the election of the President of the Supreme Court, and then this would be a briefer discussion in view of the number of applicants, and then we will go to the debate, on the annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004. So it is likely that the debate will begin around half-fourths of the Croatian National Bank's report. I'll see you at 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40236	My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can start working. Please take your seats so we can start working. My colleagues and colleagues, as you had the opportunity to see on the news, in this troubled and troubled time again, there has been a strong terrorist attack in Great Britain, in particular in London, where, as reportedly, there are many injured and injured, there are also dead persons, and all this shows that the objectives that terrorism chooses are not the goals that they want to achieve politically but, as a rule, affect innocent people and citizens, cause death, wounding, destruction and suffering, and that terrorism cannot solve open political or any other issue in their own and any other country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to express our condolences to the families above all the victims and injured, to express our condolences and support for the full solidarity of the people of Great Britain and its government and to remain at the same time and to declare that we are firmly on the definition as members of the anti-terrorist coalition, to fight first and foremost to eradicate the causes of terrorism in the world, and where it is not possible, where terrorism has already taken hold and where it acts to apply all legal and legitimate means in the fight against terrorism as one of the modern monsters and the great evil of modern man and modern world. We also propose to ask the President of the Parliament to send a letter of solidarity to the Government and to both Houses of the English Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people, the English Parliament, the English people and the English Government. And now we could move on to work. My colleague Cain, you wanted to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40237	I'm glad Mr. Vice President that you've just begun this information. It is absolutely necessary to express solidarity with the Londoners at this time. The attack that took place is an insolent act of terrorism, as you yourself have said, and that act is not enough to condemn it, but the international community should react to it. I agree with you when you say that terrorism should be contained in roots. Yesterday, on September 11, New York, London took place on July 7th, Dubrovnik, Poreč, or Opatija could happen tomorrow as Rijeka happened four or five years ago, and it is really good for the Parliament to stand behind a statement whether the President of the Parliament or this House condemning the act, or to express solidarity with the victims of Britain. You have proposed a letter of solidarity, I have held that you could come and take into account some statement regardless of the order that this Parliament, this House of the High Most Determinately condemns this act and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are solidarity at this time with the Londoners.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40238	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. There's no point in discussing this with a colleague and a colleague. I repeat that we will also transfer to the President of the Parliament what he and the Parliament's Professional Service are already taking care to send a letter of solidarity expressing the solidarity of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people with the people of England, the English Parliament and the Government of England at this difficult moment. We move to the debate on the following points of the agenda - Proposal for a declaration of support for the Croatian-Hungarian candidacy for the organisation of the European football championship UEFA EURO in 2012 The applicant for the declaration is the Government of the Republic. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In the case of a declaration, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received his reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? You got it. Here you go, State Secretary Mr. Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. The government proposes a declaration of support for the Croatian-Hungarian bid to organise the European football championship UEFA EURO in 2012. It is a very short declaration, but which is identical to the one brought by the Hungarian Parliament, and this declaration is now giving support to Croatia and Hungary to succeed in the election of candidacy, i.e. to obtain the opportunity to organise the 2012 football European championship. I would just like to say briefly that this is one of the most attractive sports events whose television ratings exceed the ratings of the Olympic Games, also this event does not need to be specifically said that it affirms football which is already very affirmed in Croatia, but can result in even greater popularity and retention of Croatia in the European football elite. In addition, those effects that are measurable should be taken, and these are financial effects, because for the organisation of such high sports manifestations, the maturity of the state and society is also shown, but the maturity to finance such an expensive manifestation, but ultimately all calculations speak and indicators such as before in Portugal, that the parent country that organises this leave high financial effects. We therefore propose that one such support of the Croatian Parliament in the form of a declaration to the Croatian and Hungarian delegations competing for EURO 2012 European Football Championships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40240	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First in line, as usual, representatives' clubs. Mr. Srecko Ferenčak on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40241	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club expressed its support to the government and the Croatian Football Federation for the submission of a European football championship in 2012, which would be jointly organised by the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. The HNS Club is of the opinion that the organisation of such a major and quality competition would contribute to the further sporting general economic and political promotion of our country. It would also contribute to further popularising football as today's most popular sport, which would help improve the status of football in Croatia, strengthen it in organisational and financial consolidation and certainly popularise sport throughout the country. The organisation of such a major competition would also contribute to improving existing infrastructure not only in the sports sector, with the reconstruction or construction of new stadiums and accompanying infrastructures, but also improve other infrastructure services important for the organisation of the championship. It is certain that there would also be a significant inflow of many viewers and guests who would contribute to Croatia's further affirmation as an ideal tourist destination, which would ultimately result in us being convinced and a significant financial gain. Not even an extremely large media treatment is to be ignored, followed by the maintenance of such a major and significant sporting event. All the time of the European Championship for almost a month, Croatia would be present in all the media. Such a space is a huge opportunity to present the state in all its segments. With a desire for Croatia and Hungary to succeed in giving them an organisation of the European football championship in 2012. We hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Football Federation and regional self-government will be able to prepare and provide the financial basis necessary for the organisation of such a significant sporting event. As you probably know the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary almost unanimously adopted the Declaration of Support for Hungary and Croatia's joint bid to organise the European Championship. We are confident that the Croatian Parliament will recognise the importance of such a competition and give support to the intention to organize it in our country as well. For the sake of all this, we express once again that the Club of HNS Representatives, the PGS, supports Croatia and Hungary's joint bid to organise the 2012 European football championship.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40242	Thank you, dear colleague Ferenchak. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40243	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, It's clear we all like football. Here in 7 years, the opportunities in Croatia will be better, there may not be such a great unemployment, perhaps seven years ago a debt will be returned to the pensioners, it may be the situation in ours, let me speak, in our children's homes, whether it be Brezovica, whether it be Pula, whether it be Lug, whether it be Daruvar. All of these pervs or pedophilesic scenes may no longer be mentioned. However, once again, we all love football here and one of Croatia's greatest successes, not counting clearly international recognition, liberation, etc. It was the third place that won the football team of Croatia at the World Cup in Paris or France. And absolutely, we all agree that it was very much Croatia at that time affirmed. I remember, and Mr. Štić knew very well our old Poreč-Pulse Bishop mon signor Bogetic who had then completed his service in Poreč and went on a mission in Taiwan or Thailand if I was not mistaken and told me in one of his returns that the locals of the island began to recognize him from which country he came only after the Republic of Croatia won third place at the World Cup. So football is incredibly affirmative at that time or has affirmed a young Croatian statehood or the Republic of Croatia. Sports can clearly and affirm an individual, can affirm a team as well as can affirm the state. Football especially, because we'll all agree there's no more sport than football, and certainly if it's the most watched sport then there's no more influential sport than football. On the other hand, however, Croatia is a small country. Croatia, whatever we think of ourselves and this beautiful country, is a poor country. Croatia is a country that currently has a lot of problems. In 2012, this country would cost 1 billion euros, at least it would cost us to build a stadium, and it would cost us far more to build infrastructure, hotels and many other city facilities that must be owned by the organizer of such a huge global event. We'll live for football like Mr. Ferenchuck said for 30 days, and then everything goes back to the way it was. We will have grand stadiums in Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka, and after 2012, perhaps 1,000, two or three thousand viewers will gather again, as opportunities in Croatian football are what they are, which will certainly not change more significantly if the principle of the football alliance comes, a new generation of officials, a new generation of coaches, perhaps athletes. However, I would like to say, without a radical decentralisation, I repeat without radical decentralisation this project cannot be implemented in the Republic of Croatia outside the city of Zagreb. It cannot be implemented either in Rijeka, Split, or Osijek. If we decide then the whole country must stand behind the European football championship. I will repeat once again that the expenditure is not important now, the state or local self-government that will exceed 1 billion euros. It is about the need to build new stadiums in one Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split. In 2000, we had a championship that won Belgium and the Netherlands. In 2004, the European Championship was held in Portugal. 2008 will take place if I am not mistaken in Austria and Switzerland. Who will win the 2012 European football championship remains to be seen, but other than Croatia and Hungary or candidates are both one Italy and one Russia and Turkey etc. etc. I'd like to quote just a few of my court-by-law essential dates that determines the household decision. On 21 July 2005, the deadline for the submission of the UEFA is the application documentation, which should include, in addition to these 60 pages, all necessary needs and consent of the national and local authorities. In September 2005 or October, UEFA inspectors check the situation on the ground. November 8, 2005. The UEFA Executive Board has decided which three candidates remain in the race to win the European Championship. November 15, 2005. The UEFA is sending new documentation for the application applications. So it's all been happening, gentlemen, this year. In April, May 2006, the presentation of candidates at the UEFA Congress. In September and October 2006 The UEFA inspectors shall verify the situation on the ground and the shifts in relation to the previous period. On 15 December 2006, UEFA's resistance is given by households at the end of next year. One word by the end of 2006 The Republic of Croatia, which I hope is bound or assumed on itself and the obligation to repay the debt to pensioners, etc., etc. has to invest between 100 and 100 million euros for those purposes alone. We have to ask ourselves if we can do it. So far, 570 million kuna has been spent on one Maksimir. It's about the equivalent of ten schools or twenty kindergartens. In the last four years, there has been Ferenčak, who has been in the city's headship, can deny me, in the Zagreb area as far as I know what the media is writing, is not allegedly open any new elementary or secondary school, not one new kindergarten opened. To finish only, it takes another 200 to 300 million kuna. So, only stadiums need to invest more than 150m to 200m euros and all this rest will cost us 800m euros. I will repeat once again that Croatia certainly has far more problems than football at the moment, and it was also about the European Parliament. Croatia has far bigger problems at the moment than the stadium. Croatia currently has far greater concerns than such a grand European championship. However, if everyone is in this assembly for, it will obviously be IDS. Finally, one of these events should be held in Rijeka, it is our eighth electoral unit, so it will get much not only Rijeka if Croatia gets with Hungary that organisation of the European football championship but also will get both Opatija and Crikvenica, it will get Krk, it will get the whole of Istria. But it might also be far better at this point if it was as expedient as football, I don't know, we're discussing why our gross social product grew at a rate of 1.8% in the first four months. However, after this debate, a debate on the Croatian People's Bank is likely to take place. Why this unemployment is growing, why I'm competitive is falling and so on. But I am not ultimately optimistic that we will win the European Championship. I'd like to be wrong, but if the president of the country, the president of this home, remains the parliamentary clubs for the government, the local self-government for this one declaration of support for the Croatian-Hungarian bid for the organisation of the European football championship UEFA EURO 20012 will be the IDS, but we have held the necessary time to present these few moments of future spending of money in front of this High House or in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40244	Thank you very much, Comrade Cain. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Josip Leko. Here you go, Comrade Leko!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40245	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! My opinion is that it did not happen to be on the agenda of the 2012 European Football Championship Declaration. I am starting with the fact that the Parliament is responsible for the overall social development of society and, in this sense, cannot be esculpated from the fact that Croatia or the Football Federation of the Republic of Croatia has run for the organisation of such a single competition. Since the candidacy and especially the organisation of such a football competition, such an organisation is not possible to observe only through a sporting aspect although it is not irrelevant, nor to obtain the Parliament's consent simply by observing the effects on the sports plan. Every activity and sports activity aims for the purpose and purpose of some social needs and some social goals. Such objectives, of course, can be supported but should also be taken into account that the current growth of gross domestic product or the current rate of development of society does not guarantee that we will make good use of and if we get such an organisation in a wider social context. So I would say from this pay phone that, in addition to sports elements and sports goals, we should see what are both political goals and what political goals can be gained in international relations in a European environment which can be demonstrated and can be required whether Croatia would become more interesting in the European frameworks and not just that year. What an international factor it is when such a championship is organized and what it means. Is this raising the reputation of the Republic of Croatia if social goals are achieved? Of course it is. So, colleagues and colleagues, all we can say right now can only in principle say that it is good to have Croatia running but we should already set some criteria for this candidacy to be successful and for the realisation of that candidacy to have the results that we here have to verify. In principle, support the declaration that Croatia is running by me and by us is not enough. It is important to know now what goals are being achieved on all four plans, namely international, economic, sports, financial and political. So I'll do it again. In principle, such initiatives should be supported but not without a planned plan. I hope that already those organisers who have already applied to this have a vision of how this should be realised and I am adding such an organization to it must be led by people who know how to design, implement and make a profitable end not only to the organization but to Croatia in a developmental sense. So, not to be complicated. The SDP will, of course, in principle support the adoption of such a Declaration but also make a commitment that organisers and of course now and the Government are asking the organisers to develop a plan that will enable it to have a purpose in social development, to give political good results, to give good sports results, and in particular to encourage development. Development in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40246	Thank you, colleague Leko. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of Arabovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40247	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Before I go on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'd like to tell Mr. Lek that he's right about some statements and say it's good, but it's just a proposal for candidacy. We don't know who's going to win, and if we're going to get in between three and only if we get in between three, then we could talk about financial aspects and other things. So, what Mr. Cain was saying, I won't even comment on it. Getting an organisation of this event is not only a sporty, sporty challenge but a significant economic project. It is noteworthy that Portugal hosted the last, last European football championship hosted nearly 350,000 guests from countries outside Portugal. So they came as tourists or watch games. Some 2 million overnight stays were recorded. 2 million nights and somewhere around 45 thousand jobs are open for, for organization, winning and just maintaining the European Championship in Portugal, and I think Portugal has been nothing since before the championship let's say neither better nor richer than our beautiful Croatia. I would like to inform you on behalf of the HDZ Club that the Executive Board of the UEF in the 7th month, 7th and 8th of November of this year will decide which, that it will decide next year which three candidates will enter the narrow selection for the 2012 household. In addition to Croatia and Hungary, let's say one precedent that we are, as yet, not a member of the European Union, a candidate, a candidate with one country which is a member which has been highly accepted with sympathies in all relevant sports clubs across Europe. There are also Poland and Ukraine while Greece and Turkey, Italy, Romania and Russia are going separately with the possibility that Greece and Turkey can be together which let's say that sport brings people closer together. Finally, the final decision is taken next year in December to enter between three. This, with this brief description of what has been done so far and the fact that, that the examination of the public carried out on a sample of 1,000 inhabitants is nice to us, our 83% supports the candidacy. 83% of citizens support Croatia's bid to be a candidate for 2012, and even 89%, 88%, 89% of respondents support going together with Hungary. Three days ago, we were in Hungary, gentlemen, and we were so well received, and I think Hungary is one of us very dear, and a country that we can look up to in some things. And even, even more than 65% of respondents would have ordered or bought tickets for 2012. With this above, I think the HDZ Club will support this declaration, which would be nice to the organisers, so that we all, unanimously support them, to unanimously support this declaration because I will only tell you in the end that the Hungarian Parliament with 315 votes for, 4 were abstentions, 3 were against it. And of all of them together, they all unanimously said we were going with Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40248	Thank you, fellow Arabovic. Correction of my colleague Cain's incorrect claim. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40249	The gentleman mentioned he wouldn't comment on what Cain was saying. It's Cain. Warned that Croatia has bigger problems [[Intruder: Please correct an incorrect quote from a colleague!]] of football and that it will cost us one billion EUR [[Intruder: What is an incorrect quote?]] One billion EUR and one, one billion is... /The speaker has been excluded./... [[Agreement: Thank you, dear colleague Cain.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40250	I'm shutting you down, colleague Cain. /The speaker has been disabled./... [[Agreement: Croatian budget and]] Do not violate the Rules of Procedure on the entire Parliament. Please be so patient. You asked for a correction to an incorrect quote. You didn't start by correcting the incorrect quote but by convincing your discussion and discussion on behalf of the club that you had and I nicely...... I'm asking you, I'm asking you nicely to speak for the club, I'm asking you to sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. [[Applause.]] We move on to an individual debate, dear colleague of Peru has a word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40251	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues in full support of the position of the SDP Club, presented by counterpart Josip Leko in the sense that this very important project must have defined its own political and cultural and developmental projects. Let me, as a parliamentary representative and longtime sportsman in football sport, express my satisfaction that we have come to the opportunity to discuss in this House and I hope to support one joint project for Croatia such as the organization of the European Football Championship in 2012 together with Hungary, a country which, as we already know, is a member of the European Union. Sports is this noblest human activity that, on many occasions, creates bridges amongst people so that politicians sometimes destroy them. Let us remember the time from the Homeland War when the affirmation of the Croatian state in the world was, to the greatest extent possible, contributed by Croatian athletes, whether in the team, was in individual sports, and it is my pleasure that we also have parliamentary representatives in this assembly, more prominent Croatian athletes, and I hope that we will be almost unique in supporting one of these projects. Already, what counterpart Franjo Arabovic said on behalf of the HDZ Club, we also have the affection of the Croatian public because the data suggests that out of 1,000 respondents 60% of them are familiar with the project and are ready to buy tickets now and support it. I note that this is the second candidate of the Republic of Croatia to organise the European Football Championship, for the first time with Hungary we failed, and Hungary is the third candidate. It is therefore objective to expect, although I am also skeptical because the interests of organising such significant sports events are high in Europe. Listed are the countries that claim to be the organizers of this project and Croatia should be prepared, ready to compete and do everything in its power to get the organization of the championship. Let's not be played again, like the city of Rijeka was played with a candidate for the organisation of the Mediterranean Games. It is also known that financial competitions such as this especially when it comes to football as the most popular sport in the world have also financially won results and I hope that the same way that the Hungarian Parliament and we in this Parliament have given support to this important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40252	Thank you, colleague of Peru. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. What five minutes? I don't have a colleague's application. Dear colleague, you've filed and spoken for 15 minutes on behalf of the club, now you've made a wish and you'll get five minutes to finish speaking on behalf of the club, but you don't have a registration. Thank you very much. A colleague of Caine's five minutes final on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40253	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Now I've been informed that there are 20 dead in London, and it would be my turn to express our condolences to the families of the victims. However,... sympathising with
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40254	Please, colleague Cain, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, I have expressed my condolences for all those killed and killed in a terrorist attack in London. Please do not put, impute to the Assembly something he has already done that he has not done. I'm asking you to take good care of what you're saying. Go back to your topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40255	Mr. Arabovic said earlier that he did not want to comment on what Cain was saying. Cain warned that Croatia is certainly having bigger problems at the moment than the organisation of the European football championship. Cain also warned in front of the IDS Club that the Republic of Croatia and our taxpayers would ultimately cost 1 billion euros. It is true that some of this money will probably be returned through tickets of services to our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. 1 billion euros is one tenth of the Croatian budget or almost between the European Championship and the repayment of the debt to the pensioners of the IDS Club chooses the other. I also said that I will repeat that the IDS Club will vote for this decision to the declaration or as we have already called it, but 1 billion euros is a huge amount of money that the Republic of Croatia does not have at this time, which or some of that money must start investing immediately to prepare the European football championship. I also said that all of us in this assembly and I believe we love football and we were all proud when the Croatian football team achieved commendable results. But let's also be rational. I will repeat, the IDS Club is for, but we are all aware that the Republic of Croatia at this time, the question of whether someone can rephrase me on this claim to organise a financial one such demanding sports content. If we go into that, then we have to reach a full consensus. The whole country must stand behind this project and not all the burden must fall exclusively to the City of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. That's what I'm talking about. And the position of one Hungary is incomparably better than the Republic of Croatia at this time. They have as much as $3 and a half thousand of gross social product per capital over the Republic of Croatia. Their exports are 48.3 billion dollars, ours is 8, their imports are 53, ours is 16 etc. I'm not talking about other economic parameters. This is less important now, but I join all those who want this football championship, but then we really have to solidarity with cities like Rijeka, Split and Osijek. The budget of the City of Zagreb is about 6 billion kuna, but the City of Rijeka if I am not mistaken about 500 million kuna. It's the proportion that matters. We these cities want to talk about it we have to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40256	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40257	Thank you very much. I need to correct my colleague Cain. Not only does the Croatian state have to invest a million euros. I don't know where he got the information that it's a billion, because there's no data. They also invest regional administrations that have agreed to this. The mayors of Split, Osijek, Zagreb and Rijeka agreed. So I don't know how you know they can invest in their facilities or they can't. Second. In order to earn something, colleagues of Cain must always invest, and the third is extremely not demagogical politics, not to say rudely compare whether it is more important to repay the debt to pensioners or organise a football championship in Croatia. It has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40258	Thank you very much. Injury of my colleague Cain's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40259	Article 214 is that Mr. Ferenchuck did not correct any of my guilty allegations, but you allowed him to replicate after my discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40260	My colleague Cain, I don't know why you need all this this afternoon, but the fact that he fixed you not one, but three allegations, my colleague Ferencak corrected you. Col. Bagaric, correction of the incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Cain said that Hungary is in an incomparably better position for the candidate in terms of more easily running than Croatia and cited some of the arguments in favour of its claim. I do not break those arguments, but I am taking down the claim, i.e. it is incorrect to claim that Hungary is easier to run for Hungary because there are other arguments that go to Croatia in favour. Therefore, it is not true that Hungary is easier to run than Croatia, and on the other hand another thing. Between the return of debt to pensioners and the organisation of the European Football Championship, we, the HDZ Club, choose not one of the two but both. Therefore, we both need to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40262	Thank you very much. The final five minutes, a respected colleague of Arabovic, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40263	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I can't help but finish these last words by Mr. Cain, but I'm going to tell you something in my personal name before that. Personally, I...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40264	You can't speak in person on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40265	On behalf of the club. As a member of the HDZ Club back in the 1980s, I took part in 82nd Universiade for the City of Zagreb and I had a lot of remarks like Caine in that former state, because they said what if we got it, we'd get angry with some close countries. Unfortunately, I thought this time had passed, but from these presentations today, I'd like to mention some homes, some institutions, some pensioners, our hardworking and congratulating honest people in the football championship. I don't think this is what this House deserves, and we all do, and I ask you, on behalf of sport, to give unanimous support to the candidacy where no one has lost, and I will tell you in the end, Portugal has earned 2.75 euros on each euro invested. Therefore, in order to earn something Mr. Ferenschak said, something must be invested and something to risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40266	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40267	Among other things, Mr. Arabovic mentioned that this House did not deserve some of my qualifications. This House deserves respected gentlemen to discuss the price of the European football championship for which taxpayers will have to set aside cities and counties more, which will have to set aside with counties, cities and states one billion euros. .../The speaker has been disabled./
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40268	First, let's shed some light on this. I've turned off your microphone for a simple reason because you've been misusing the Rules of Procedure again and, as it seems, 15 hours in here, on many occasions you're trying to abuse the Rules of Procedure to provoke the chairman to warn you. I don't think it has any purpose or need, because actually the entire Parliament's reaction is greater to you than I could tell you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of Antičević. ... Well, my colleague, Radin, you didn't say, you probably hesitate for some of the reasons you've known. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, fellow Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40269	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Cain has injured the Rules of Procedure, which is why Article 209 is being misused by this institute to correct the incorrect allegations and constantly here, of course, because TV cameras are on fire and therefore it does and simply supports it, so he is in conflict with himself, supporting this proposal and wants to like the pensioners as well. Well, it can't, it's demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40270	Thank you, dear colleague Anticevic. But as you know, I have already found that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, as I have also said, that there is no need after the Parliament's reaction to make a warning, or I am applying it. Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I am concluding a debate on this subject. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Please give us a quorum because we should now complete the agenda with one item of the agenda. Do we have a quorum? We don't have a quorum yet. I ask the representatives outside to enter, and we will move on to the next item of the agenda until the quorum is established, with the point we will begin to do breaking the moment the quorum is established and the agenda complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40271	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, let us conclude with the vote on the Declaration of Support for Croatian-Hungarian Candidates for the European Football Championship EURO 2012. Please, who's for this Declaration? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 85 votes for the proposed Declaration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40272	We return to the point - The election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia The proposal for a decision was delivered in accordance with Article 118(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail into the boxes. I'm opening a debate. We have reports for discussion on behalf of HDZ Club, colleague Drazen Bošnjaković. The board gave an opinion. Dear colleagues and colleagues to clarify the matter of the board. The Committee here does not give an opinion on the proposed agenda, but here the opinion of the Committee is an integral part of the proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Court, because under the Constitution it participates and cooperates with the applicant for the President of the Supreme Court, which is the President of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect it is not necessary for the Committee to discuss this specifically through the debate. Members of the Committee may, of course, also be invited to consult the Committee with the proposal as an integral part of the proposal to the Assembly. So I'm opening a debate. The first in line is a respected colleague, Bosnjakovic, as I have already announced. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40273	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support Branko Hrvatin's election as president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This is a very important decision that this House needs to make, because the Supreme Court is the top of a judicial pyramid. The Supreme Court is a court that ensures uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens and equality of all before the law, and therefore it is very important who will be President of the Supreme Court. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal to make Branko Hrvatin president of the Supreme Court. From his résumé, we see that it's a man who's been working all his work, from his résumé, that he's a man who's worked all his working life in the judiciary. He had one judicial career, he was first an apprentice of the municipal court, after which the judge of the municipal court, the judge of the county court, is now the judge of the Supreme Court. So we see that that's the man who's the whole...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40274	Let's let your colleagues talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40275	We see once again, that it is a person who has his entire working life in the judiciary, whose problems of the judiciary are known and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40276	Thank you very much. I think we have a quorum now, please determine that. As you can see, we have 81 MPs in the hall, which means we have a quorum. We are continuing the debate on the election point of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club that respected counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club considers this to be one of the major decisions and supports it. This is so important for one country, given our not only constitutional but also the real commitment of the government's trinity and, as for each country, the first-class importance and choice of the president of the state, the appointment, the election of the prime minister as well as the trio of the government as the third-country government, it is certainly the same for both the first-class importance and the election of the President of the Supreme Court as the representative of the judicial instance in the Republic of Croatia. However, we are witnessing that high expectations are against the judicial authority and then on our own and on the most responsible person at the head of the judicial authority. In order for it to really function that way, and in the same way as the laws set out in us that regulate a whole series of issues in the appointment and resolution of judges and other things concerning the functioning of both the timely and efficient functioning of the judicial authority, then, accordingly, it is necessary to regulate the system accordingly. I think there should be a political consensus about this, and I believe that there is a political consensus to be amended accordingly, and the laws that will then be given more authority and, accordingly, more responsibility than the citizens expect, and also from the Supreme Court president himself. However, we are also faced with the situation that the president of the state himself, and this parliament, too, has found it difficult to appoint the president of the Supreme Court of Justice. This is ultimately the result of our normative arrangement, and perhaps this would be a good thing if this were the last case and the last chance when the Parliament decides. As is the case in all countries, the presidents of all courts and thus the Supreme Court are elected more or less by the judges themselves, or that body, that judicial body. So we should also think about it in this sense, but we certainly need to think about it, which is what citizens expect, and in some ways it's a little strange that neither the legislative nor the executive authority in any way nor its own opinion affects the choice of judges themselves. I think that's also a first-rate issue and that's where we have one consent, and of that, it would have been a good step to move forward with the amendment of such a legislation that will make our reform of the judiciary faster and more efficient, and it is the judicial authority that applies it and without which the real reform does not exist. So I can only repeat the SDP club supports this proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40279	We are continuing to discuss the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. For the club HSLS, DC, LS respected representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40280	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! The best reference for a man is when he is spoken of by his actions and when colleagues from the profession are you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40281	I ask the representatives to remain in the Chamber because after this debate we will vote the same, we should vote on the election of the President of the Supreme Court. Please stay in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40282	I'm saying, when a man is told of his actions and colleagues from the profession, it's really the best reference. We have here a résumé of a man we do not know from the bright stage of the Croatian political social scene but those who know him well as a hard worker know him as a man who has worked hard in the National Election Commission. They say he has always borne the greatest burden of preparation and organisation of the implementation of parliamentary presidential and local elections. So, expertise, diligence and above all responsibility in the trial. They're references. If we add to that the recent not, his statement, Mr Branko Hrvatin, that he does not seek the consensus of all political parties in this House, which means that he respects the fundamental principle of parliamentary democracy, there is no other way than that we, as a DC club of HSLS, give full support to this candidate by believing that we are getting a real candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40283	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. He's not here, he's not here. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40284	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Given that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is the highest court and to ensure uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens, powers and tasks of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia require, in principle, the institution of a person of exceptional professional quality and a person of great responsibility. Of course, by considering the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the IDS Club is unanimous in assessing that Mr Branko Hrvatin has done everything with experience and professional work so far and that he can respond to the demands and duties of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. By doing so, the IDS Club unanimously supports Mr Branko Hrvatin as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40285	Thank you very much. And the IDS Club is a respected representative, what is it? And what is this? ... [[Intruder: No, but Pero Kovacevic is 10 minutes.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40286	I give up, it's all said.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40287	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40288	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a bit of an interesting situation. We have seen what the last attempt was to make fun of the candidate in the essence of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the State, but I think this whole appointing process is talking about the fact that it should obviously be considered that different procedures should be laid down for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court because these solutions are not appropriate. I personally have nothing against the gentleman who was proposed, but it seems to me that he was neither guilty nor obliged to come suddenly to become Supreme Court President because of the fact that he was a very short time in the Supreme Court in 2004, and it is obvious that the President was in the situation that his first proposal had fallen into the water that he had to go quickly with this second proposal and I say I have nothing against the proposed candidate but it seems to me that he was neither guilty nor obliged to become President of the Supreme Court. In my opinion as a lawyer for a long time, I think it would be far more important for the President of the Supreme Court to be a person who has a concrete and long-term working experience right in the Supreme Court, but also has, and that there is one part of the continuity of the legal court and that means the Municipal Court, the County Court, but not in any places but responsible places and then the Supreme Court. I say I won't vote against the proposed candidate, but I think I should point out that the whole procedure is not well or legally resolved and that we have brought ourselves into this situation that we have been waiting for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40289	And distinguished representative Damir Cain, five-minute debate on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40290	That's why very briefly. Your Honor, Mr. President, clearly these are very responsible persons. If we've come to a judge without a stain, if we've reached a judge to paraphrase the media, there's a consensus within the Supreme Court, then it's clear that such a choice should be accepted. Clearly, on the other hand, that demand from the Parliament's consensus about a person is, in my court, one dictatorship, and at least from the Parliament as it was a month ago, you shouldn't ask anyone for it because it kind of degrades the multiparty so that I don't say it leads us to "SSRN". It is clear that, on the other hand, the new decision on this House is being adopted unanimously. Just before, there was also a provision or Declaration on the maintenance of the possibly European Football Championship in these areas 2012. It is clear that now it is necessary to step out of a stalemate position where deadlines, elections, election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia were not respected, however, but that is why some other institutions are responsible. The Parliament was just doing its job, looking for maybe the best candidate, and we want to believe that this choice is a good choice. And so clearly this choice of club IDS is completely accepted. Perhaps it is tending to expect the President of the Supreme Court to be the one to implement the judicial reform. It is the work of the Government or the Parliament, and the Supreme Court should clearly fight for its independence. Let him fight for the material position and every other judge, let him fight for the integrity of the judicial authority, the efficiency of all the conduct of Croatian courts. But this is the opportunity I want to take to express one, so let's call it a remark. Apparently, the abolition of certain municipal courts, such as the one in Chabra, including my Buzet, is mentioned, but if these cities are abolished, the municipal court will probably follow the Criminal Court, and then we will degrade, I would dare say that one substance, the position of that city itself, and I hold that it will not happen. I agree, we're all bloody under the skin, but judges who decide about ourselves, ours, to express myself in such a way as freedom, material rights and all others must be sinless. And as far as we have come to a candidate who fits all these assumptions, I think it will profit both the Croatian public and the Croatian parliamentary life, and we want to make every good wish to Mr. Hrvatin for the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Hrvatin's IDS club is also very supportive because it draws roots from Istria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40291	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Branko Hrvatin. Please, who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 83 votes, Branko Hrvatin has been elected president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40292	We move colleagues and colleagues to the point - Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 in accordance with Article 58. The Law on the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank submitted the above report. You received the report by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You also received his report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40293	I apologize, Mr. Vice President, but President Shakespeare has announced that there will be a second item today after the break, the election of the Supreme Court president, he announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40294	I've got the National Bank Report on schedule, but if that's how the president announced it, then we can do it first and then we'll do it afterwards. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If the President of the Parliament announced it and you're all confirming it, then all right, then we'll do that part first. Excuse me. We will do as the President of the Parliament has announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40295	We are now going to - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 The Croatian National Bank submitted a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government has delivered its opinion. I ask the Deputy Governor, Mr. Vujcic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40296	Dear MPs, good afternoon. In short, I will present a summary of the 2004 CNB reports you received. In 2004, a somewhat slower economic growth was recorded in Croatia than in the previous year. On the other hand, progress has been made in reducing the external balance, while inflation has remained at a low level. The Central Bank's 2004 measures were primarily aimed at limiting foreign borrowing. In contrast, measures taken by the Central Bank concerning the restriction of credit growth adopted in January 2003 ceased to apply in January 2004 as we announced. However, the Central Bank continued to prescribe for banks a minimum level of foreign currency liquidity at 35% of foreign exchange commitments, and in July 2004 we made a new decision that prescribed the allocation of the border reserve to increase foreign bank liabilities. Furthermore, the Central Bank actively supported the exchange of state foreign debt to domestic ones. Thus, the Central Bank changed its focus in 2004, limiting credit growth to limit credit borrowing. Real GDP growth in 2004 was 3.8%. Personal consumption, with the contribution of a gross social product of approximately 2.4%, played an important role in its growth as well in 2003. However, investment in fixed capital, which has recently contributed most to expansion, decreased in the second half of 2004 after the completion of the main works on the Zagreb-Split highway. Investment growth thus fell from 16.8% to 4.4% in 2004. On the other hand, for the first time since 2004, net exports of goods and services have made a positive contribution to GDP growth throughout the year by half percentage points, thereby partially compensated for the reduced contribution of GDP growth investments. The current account deficit in Croatia fell from 6.9% in 2003 to 4.6% in 2004. This significant adjustment can be partly attributed to the growth of trade in goods and the decline of net outflows based on factor incomes. It should, however, be pointed out that the annual fall mentioned under the strong influence of the major casts recorded in 2003 is based on direct investments which are largely the result of the impact of the transfer of "Plive" patent rights on its related company abroad. By excluding the effects of this transaction on the achievement of the baseline 2003 annual deficit in the current balance of payments account in 2004 is 1.2%. The increase in trade exports is 18.5% while the increase in imports was only 6.2%. The largest share in the increase in exports was exports of ships and oil derivatives. On the other hand, the export of petroleum products is mainly reflected in price increases rather than in increased production. Therefore, it is important to note that export growth was still at 15.3%, including exports of ships and oil derivatives. In addition to shipbuilding and oil derivatives, the most important contribution comes from the production of electric machines, appliances and appliances, fur and leather products, special machinery for individual industrial branches of colored metals and other products of metal. Tourism revenues as a key positive item of the current account have stagnated at the level since 2003, i.e. a small increase. Although physical indicators suggest that the number of tourists who came to Croatia in 2004 has increased and the number of overnight stays has increased, financial indicators have seen slower growth since more tourists have stayed in unpaid accommodation. The question of the impact of possible expansion of the grey economy on these results but further growth in tourism revenues is the need for further investment in accommodation facilities and particularly related services, or added value in this sector. According to the State Statistics Institute, unemployment increased by 1.2 in 2004 compared to 2.5% in 2003. However, these indicators and the results of a major reduction in the number of individual farmers by 13%, which does not have to faithfully maintain employment trends. If we exclude individual farmers, employment growth was 2% in 2004. However, this information is not entirely accurate because it was obtained by including a large reduction in public administration employment of 7.7%, which mainly stemmed from the update of employment data in the military and police. The registered unemployment rate was on average 1.1% lower than in 2003 in 2004, although at the end of the year it was only 0.2% lower. The fact is that the effects of the 2002 Employment Institute reform played a role in this. In this reform, the definition of unemployment led to a steady reduction in registered unemployment over most of the coming years. Despite the end of this cleanup of the unemployment ranks, however, there remains a significant gap between registered unemployment and unemployment in the half-year survey according to the methodology of the international organisation of work that continued to be reduced. Lower employment growth follows moderate wages, real net wage growth was 3.8% in 2004 while real gross earnings growth was 4.2%. A certain part of the decline in real salary growth can be explained by the interaction of gross wages and progressive taxation system which has increased the tax burden of individual employees. Public sector wage policy played an important role in curbing wage growth and real wage growth from 4.8% to 1.8%. Consumer prices increased by 2.1% during 2004 compared to 1.8% in 2003. However, the comparison of data from the end of 2003 and 2004 shows that the annual inflation growth in December 2004 was 2.7%. The increase in oil derivatives, natural gas and household water prices is the main factors contributing to inflation in 2004. The collection of tobacco products caused by the increase in excise duties in July also contributed significantly to the increase in consumer price inflation. Based on inflation, it rose in December by an annual rate of 2.3%. Its tax, among other things, was influenced by the accumulation of tobacco products, significant meat collection from -2.6% in December 2003 to 3.5% in December 2004 as well as the transfer of the oil price effect to other areas, for example, on road and air prices. However, the reduction in agricultural prices as well as the decline in car prices helped limit the growth of basic inflation. Most inflationary pressures in 2004 and in early 2005 are due to the rise of energy prices on the world market. One-time effects of the domestic factor such as increasing excise duties on tobacco products and rising meat prices are still present, but it is likely that they will be temporary nature as shown by the latest data on inflation. So far, no signs of significant domestic inflationary pressure are seen. In the stability of the course, the Croatian National Bank sees a key means of limiting inflation and preventing the formation of inflationary expectations. During 2004, the average daily exchange rate per euro was 0.9%. The nominal appraisal limited the impact of imported inflation during 2004. Appreciation pressures were much more common during 2004 than... pressures, and a similar trend continued this year and this reflects a constantly large inflow of capital. The CNB bought 510.2m euros net of business banks through foreign exchange interventions during 2004 thus creating 3.8 billion kunas of primary money. These interventions were the main channel of liquidity creation, which eased the appreciation pressures. At the same time, the central bank sold net to the Ministry of Foreign Finance totalling 94.7m euros, thus withdrawing a total of 741.7m kuna from circulation. These transactions with the State were taken to facilitate the payment of State foreign debt and to replace financing with foreign capital from domestic sources. The central bank reduced its reserve rate from 19% to 18% in November 2004, freeing banks with funds then borrowed from them by issuing bonds to buy foreign exchanges to pay off the debt. Also in February 2005, the Central Bank reduced the minimum required foreign liquidity rate from 35 per cent to 32 per cent to free the banks from foreign exchange assets and allowed them to borrow foreign credits from the state that thus paid off its foreign currency liabilities. Furthermore, in 2004, the Central Bank tried to reduce capital inflows by introducing a limited border reserve on foreign bank liabilities with effect from July. The limit reserve rate was first 24% and then increased to 30% in February 2005. This measure gathers the use of foreign sources of financing. However, it is not expected to fully eliminate the new foreign borrowing of banks as banks do not turn to foreign sources exclusively because of the price. In fact, banks borrow funds from abroad due to the longer deadlines for disbursement from the deadlines that are common on the domestic market and because the growth of the domestic deposit is not sufficient to finance the growth of the plasma provided for in their business plans only from these sources. In early 2004, the Central Bank also tightened monetary policy by limiting the use of Lombard loans and only five days a month but abolished regular auctions of central bank cash registers and stopped issuing cash registers in foreign exchanges. In April 2005 The central bank introduced trade repo auctions, a new instrument for creating and fine-tuning the liquidity level of the banking system. We expect that repo auctions and other new instruments such as depositing money with the Croatian National Bank will help increase the efficiency of monetary policy and reduce the unfavourable volatility of interest rates on the money market. The central bank is aware not only of the need to maintain a sound monetary policy that avoids excessive credit expansion and which is controlled by the current balance of payments account deficit but is also aware of the need to create liquidity in order to prevent excessive appreciation pressures and facilitate domestic funding of the budget deficit. Such efforts were followed by moderate growth of monetary aggregates. M1 increased by only 2% in 2004 compared to its growth of 9.8% in 2003, while M4 growth in 2004 was 8.5% compared to 10.5% in 2003. Slower growth of M1 can be attributed to better liquidity management of companies also whose unmonetary deposits grew rapidly due to their efforts to maximise the contribution to their financial assets and to reduce the surplus liquidity. The continued balance growth of M4 is primarily due to the growth of foreign deposits which increased by 7.5% in 2004, i.e. more than in the previous year and the mentioned growth of kuna non-monetary deposits, but these deposits remained further relatively small compared to the total aggregate M4. Plasma banks mainly grew at an unchanged rate of 14% in 2004. Credits to the population grew faster than loans to businesses, 18.7% compared to 8%. However, the gap between these two rates decreased significantly compared to the previous year when the growth of credit to the population was 27.7% and the growth of credit to businesses 5.1%. The reduction of this gap in 2004 can be partially explained by the suspension of measures taken by the Central Bank from the previous year which prompted banks to stimulate companies to use the lease or to direct borrowing in their banks abroad, thus avoiding credit booking in their balance sheets. The fact that bank placements grew faster than monetary aggregates explains the continued growth of foreign bank borrowing. In 2004, banks increased their foreign liabilities by around 11.2 billion kuna while their foreign claims increased by 8.2 billion kuna. The improvement in profitability has motivated banks to maintain a rapid rate of credit in terms of slower growth of domestic sources. Although in 2004 the interest margin dropped to average assets increased from 1.59% to 1.70% and the average capital contribution increased from 14.5% to 16.6%. The improved quality of credit is one of the main reasons for the increase in profitability since the share of total changes in the value of the reserves in total payments and potential bank liabilities fell from 4.1%) in 2003 to only 3.6% in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40297	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want? The chairman of the board is a respected representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! At its 31st session of 31 May, the Committee discussed this report and on the basis of Article 65. The Rules of Procedure, as the home working body, examined this report and pointed out fundamentally that, in the opening statement, the representative of the CNB pointed out in addition to the rest that in 2004. Croatia recorded somewhat slower growth than in the previous two years. The central bank's main goal in 2004 was primarily to limit foreign debt. Therefore, the Central Bank actively supported State loans on the domestic rather than on the foreign market. Support is provided to ensure high domestic liquidity through the issue of vault records as well as bonds from the Ministry of Finance. In 2004, the CNB introduced a special monetary policy instrument, which is a borderline reserve that counts for an increase in foreign business banks' liabilities. This raises foreign sources of bank financing and reduces the space for foreign borrowing with the aim of lending to domestic sectors. The stability of the kuna exchange rate for the CNB is a key tool to limit inflation and prevent the formation of inflationary expectations. In the Committee's discussion, the positive measures taken by the CNB were assessed in 2004 aimed at reducing foreign debt growth. In view of the growth of foreign debt by sectors, it is seen that the fastest growth in 2004 was recorded in bank borrowing at 25%. The foreign debt of other domestic sectors is growing at a rate of 18.9a. The foreign debt of the country at a rate of 9.6%. However, while the reduction in foreign debt growth rate in 2004 was encouraging, it will continue to work to stabilise the share of debt in the gross social product, primarily fiscal consolidation. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously submit the conclusion to the Croatian Assembly: "The Annual Report of the CNB for 2004 is accepted. a year." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40299	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40300	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed heads of the Croatian National Bank, ladies and gentlemen! The SDP will support this report and I will do so so that I will further highlight two important areas regarding this report and the Croatian economy at all. The first refers to a permanent turning point that the Croatian National Bank and monetary policy achieved in 2004 as a result of longer-term effort and preparation. I hope you could understand that from the presentation of Deputy Governor Vujčić, but I think it is worth supporting and supporting. It is simply a fact that the Croatian National Bank finally changed its way of working in 2004 in one key segment. It is a turning point that occurred after three years of serious preparations in Croatia's financial and monetary system as a whole. It is the fact that, after the development of a system where liquidity from the transition of the 1990s was overcome in 2001, a wider financial reform in payment, in foreign exchange transport was achieved, new laws on banks, even the new Law on the Croatian National Bank, etc. All this has been done in the last three years and in 2004 we have a whole new monetary policy which is basically based on open-market open-market operations that the Croatian National Bank has never been able to do in Croatia and that's good. It's very good what happened last year. It is simply that by 2004, the Croatian National Bank of Operation "sterilization" and other monetary operations performed mainly in the zone of its Passives in its balance sheet. For example, large amounts of cash registers and other ways. In 2004, the Croatian National Bank entered into activity and is in an active position compared to monetary operations. It is simply a change for those who understand this from the long-term meaning that now simply technically means that reauctions are being held every Wednesday, that banks are making normal demands for the financial resources needed to serve the economy, and that the Croatian National Bank is in a very active role and that it is ruling the whole matter. Estimates monetary aggregates, successfully affects interest rates etc. It's also about a new situation compared to fiscus. The vault records that have always been, which are always a short-term and rather dangerous instrument of fiscal policy and budget, are now being drawn into a system in which they have become a monetary instrument. We've been preparing this operation for three years. It is very complex and now imagine instead of this dangerous instrument called the vault record the situation that the banks have more vault records that are actually more mobile and easier to come to liquidity without any danger of disturbances in the stability of financial flows. You have also seen in the report that internal daily loans are free of interest, etc. and that there is now much possible that we have established in 2002 in the joint commission of the then Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank, which is that Croatia is in a position to be more in debt in the country, without raising interest rates and not producing the famous bad cauding out of effect when sucking state money out of the economy. So now there is one possibility and for the first time in 2004 such monetary policy was achieved. Mr. President, I would like to say here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance and Need, sometimes pressured or could pressure the Croatian National Bank with regard to certain measures, but these measures have been achieved in the concept of the active monetary policy that I am talking about now. They were necessary, they were in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank and gave positive results very quickly. I hope that a lesson will be learned to leave the Croatian National Bank alone to consistently implement politics and implement what the law has given. And we have passed the Law on the Croatian National Bank in 2001 and introduced monetary standards of the European Union into it and let the Government and ministers not interfere in monetary policy as far as my position is concerned. It's about that first one. And another thing I would like to stress about this report is where the problems for monetary policy in this new situation are, in fact, now. Unfortunately, no matter what this sounds commendable to the Croatian National Bank, it is good that it happened because it is facing additional serious problems. Of course, there is a problem with the deficit that always pushes monetary policy. The deficit in both payments and other balances is, in particular, a fiscal deficit which is a strong pressure on monetary policy. Here we need certain reforms in which we will align in our consumption with our opportunities, through more dynamic development, not tightening of the Kaisha, and now there is this trap and solution of that enigma, and as long as it is not so, monetary policy will continue to fall into great temptations. It gives her a fiscus on one side, and on the other hand what happens in the real sphere of the economy. She holds the monetary sphere of the economy. In the ruling theory they should and monetary policy should be neutral, however it is not always so and is known for example if you take the Central Bank Report of all central banks of the world a week ago, it is of course known Bank Internationale... Basel bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the president of that bank... It acknowledges that in recent years in Europe and beyond, a broader monetary impact has played a significant role in supporting economic growth and should not, in fact, by any logic, regulation, monetary standards of Europe and in other ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now how they formulate the mission for further. They say, we hope, that we are hoping for a slight return to the neutrality of the monetary policy if these conditions allow and because, of course, it must be contained as they say in Europe, to accumulate debts in households, to suppress storms on real estate markets, to ease the risk of business on financial markets, the financial sector is currently relying on low loan prices and high consumption, etc. Do you recognize anything of Croatia here? In fact, the problem is already and especially because despite the slowdown in bank assets as seen last year, banks remain highly profitable. Last year, 37 banks were more successful than they were years ago. In addition, the banking sector in Croatia is very concentrated. Six major banks take 88% of the total financial and banking market. Croatia is among the transition countries that are an absolute recordr by the share of foreign debt in the social gross product. Of course, problems are in slowing down production, which is unfortunately ongoing in both the real sector of GDP and industrial production, in stagnating exports, which is a major problem and in reducing competitiveness. So I want to say this. The total income of Croatia's population is decreasing, the savings rate is chronically low. Unemployment knows what he's like. The banks tied most of the loans to the population to the currency clause, and the population to the currency clause and the risk cannot be transferred to anyone else. It's at the bottom and last and it'll take it. Therefore, any disturbance would directly affect both the population and the economy and, of course, the bank, and therefore monetary policy must persist in defending what the law requires and which neither the Government nor anyone else should at any time question it. So, with debt problems, greater consumption, etc. Mr. President, the monetary policy after this in 2004 is certainly ahead of the problems that will produce both slow growth and exports and a decline in competitiveness and all our deficits. From the canvas to the rest. And secondly, there is an increase in Croatia, and financial risks are under way. There are growing financial risks both for the population and for entrepreneurship. This certainly puts the Croatian National Bank in a situation where it will still have to work with all its strength to be successful. Of course monetary policy depends largely on what will happen to the overall economic policy? Let me say quite well on purpose the following: in the last 40 hours the rating of Croatia has deteriorated because... announced that the positive outlook was re-returned to the stables outlook. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that one of the three largest, most important agencies in the world that determine the rating and ranking list and health of every economy says that we are no longer in the category of countries where this outlook was positive, which meant with good prospects than in the category of countries where they are and where the odds are less good than they have been so far. On the other hand, we all know and that will reflect on many parameters in the next few days. And on the other hand, we all already know that with economic policy in Croatia we are in trouble. It may not be up to me, Mr. President, to say it, but I think the government would have to do a big job this summer. Some ministers have already announced after three weeks of vacation. I think the government should just stick to business right now because the continuation of this kind of economic policy is not going to be good. There's something to come up with by autumn and before. It's about us running economic policy pretty short-term. I'll be very, very measured and, and precise, technically we're leading her from trouble to trouble and how, by pressing us like that, we're dealing with it. We do not have an economic policy that would achieve some long-term clear programme in which Croatia and its development initiatives would be a project and where all objectives would be known, especially some priority programme, where it would be known to defend Croatia's interests in the country, what measures both in Europe and where methods could be developed that could be successfully achieved. If economic policy in this sense doesn't set itself quite differently, let's say at this point, we should figure out how to neutralize the pressure of the debt as far as possible, develop as a project or how to develop our own financial pillar as a resistance to its own development that would no longer depend on it will be just the season and will only someone give us a loan? And a series of questions like that. Without it, monetary policy will be in trouble no matter how successful it is. Finally, to say quite collegially, the Croatian National Bank with a high level of professionalism successfully fulfils its functions and I hope that it will continue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40301	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Churchvenac is in, said the rate of savings in Croatia is low which is not true. The material, or the Croatian National Bank's report, says: "The continued growth of the kuna savings sector has achieved a high rate of growth in kuna deposits. 35.7% of which most of the growth is related to the hand-to-hand kuna deposits with a currency clause that doubled in 2004." I would like to say something else at the same time that the Kunski deposits of companies have reached a growth of 14.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40303	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40304	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian National Bank, the distinguished gentlemen of the parliament. It seems that this whole debate, according to this report, written on over 200 pages, is going to look like on one side of the field of optimists, and on the other side of the pessimist. Optimists will clearly defend the position of the government, call for positive examples, will mention that as money mass growth, exchange rate, inflation and even exports that grew by as much as 18.5% last year compared to the year before will even mention bank placements. And pessimists with a clear list now from the opposition will call for unemployment, slowing down investment activity. We're going to talk about external debt, wage stagnation, one miserable growth of gross social product mainly this year for the first 4 months of all 1.8%. Now how to find the measure although the most accurate assessment of this report would be as we heard just before that Croatia is in trouble and I fear that they are clearly related to the mentioned imports, exports, external debt, deficits and so on. For example, it is said that in 2004, total exports amounted to $8 billion. Imports $16.6 billion. It's just so necessary to note that Istria alone has a positive stock balance. Export more than imports. It is even mentioned that in 2004, exports amounted to 48.4% or 4.8 points more than 2003. However, I quote a very positive contribution were also made by representatives of the Croatian National Bank just before, they were ships. And it's literally like that. But there's no mention of the fact that, say, shipyards other than the Oilies are just about in front of bankruptcy. That they are incompetent to pay and insolvent, that they are business 2004. "May 3rd," "The Queen" "Brodosplit", "Brodotrogir" ended up with nearly 9 billion kuna missing to say that they should have been reported for bankruptcy and I hope that no one will dare do the same thing that was done when Lenac went into bankruptcy. That these shipyards are purposelessly expending guarantees and so on. So when we have that dimension in mind and I absolutely support the government's decision that she gave that $69 million guarantee to Brodosplit, right? To continue their business, opportunities in Croatian shipyards are worse. So you're not aware now whether it's worse when they work or when they're standing because we're losing between 10 and 15 million dollars on every ship right now. However, it is clear that the shipyard must work. And in these circumstances, adventurers are even thinking about privatising the Oilic only let's call it such a healthy shipyard in the Republic of Croatia. However, what may be Croatia's biggest problem? We almost don't know what we want? We have a consensus for, say, this shake-up under the quotes of Europe. On the one hand, the French "no" to the European Constitution...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40305	On the other hand, we have the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 under discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40306	But we don't know, Mr. President, what do we really want with the ground? The countries that became part of the European 20th, which this report also speaks of a year ago, in 2004 recorded the coverage of imports with almost everything. They all have almost more gross social product than the Republic of Croatia. They have less and less unemployment, less external debt per capital and so on. So all their parameters are better than they are in the Republic of Croatia. The truth in these new 10 countries is that the European Union has invested 22 billion euros, which is clearly huge money for their opportunities, but it is important to know that one of Slovakia, the Czech Republic, I do not know Poland etc. It was not the money that started the money, but foreign capital, and that is the number one Croatian problem. I'm going to repeat what I'm saying more than once over this pay phone, let's say one Slovakia has a $28.7 billion export, importing $29.5 billion. Croatian exports are 7.6 billion dollars, i.e. imports of $16.1 billion. The Czech Republic exports as much as $60 billion, imports $62.3 billion. The gross social product has $16,000. So these are the countries we looked up to yesterday so high, and now they're all in front of us. One Slovak country with 5.4 million inhabitants has not only this gross social product of $3000 400 larger than Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40307	Please, colleague Cain, what does it matter what the export rate, investment, imports, exports, the population of Slovakia, the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40308	Well, it does, so let me talk about this report. Well, because that's what the Croatian National Bank is talking about. So we can't follow the Croatian National Bank report when on 50 pages it mentions the biggest problem at this point that's the relationship between imports and exports and let me talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40309	Well, yeah, but concentrate on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40310	So I concentrate, just let me talk, don't waste my time. ... Yeah, right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't even talk about Slovenia, they didn't have a war, but the fact is they have six times more exports than Croats, and now we come to be there. We don't want foreign capital, we think we can do it ourselves, we're not going to build anything on the side of Croatia and sell anything to anyone, and what we can do is we don't know it ourselves, let's just say it goes to waste with dignity. Croatia has to provide almost $20 billion annually for import service plus external debt, and now it may not matter that external debt of $30 billion or €23.3 billion while you can serve it, but it will become increasingly difficult. Where we now secure these foreign exchanges, and on the other hand there is no more Belgrade. Foreign exchange or foreign exchange as much as I'd like. Exports mean 8 billion dollars, some say 7 billion dollars, out of dollars to billions and a half, 4 to 5 billion dollars from abroad, privatisation of a billion dollars. And so we create a false picture of our success rather than look ourselves in the eye and admit that every day we progress more and more towards our own tragedy. And those who think that Croatia will come out of this situation alone without entering foreign capital, in fact, so to speak, Croatia is leading to bankruptcy. If we hadn't sold all the banks, it could have been different, but this way, when all the investments are recorded only in Croatian monopolies, for example. Inu, we're being blacked out because after we sell Ina, Croatia insurance, the shipyard won't anyway, and first we'll sell it to pay off the debt...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40311	Please refer a little bit to the report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40312	So, Mr. President, that's what I want to say and let's try to attract investors doesn't matter now from Western Europe, Russia, Israel, but before that, let's convince the citizens that either the capital here or our citizens will go after that capital. Otherwise what's waiting for us? It can be read from now on this latest arrangement also discussed by the Croatian National Bank, between Croatia and the IMF. First, it's an accelerated privatisation. If anyone asks the IDS we are against privatising Croatia's insurance or the Post Office Bank. Secondly, subsidies should be reduced and social rights said so participation should be introduced in health care. Fourth, change the pension indexing formula. I'd like to know how it's going to be done right now. Fifth, reach an agreement on public sector wages. So that's what we should also do. Meaning, however, keeping in mind all these recommendations that clearly exist between the government and the opposition which is logical, it is difficult to justify what happened several months ago or a month ago of this public controversy that broke out between the government on the one hand or some resolution ministers and governors of the Croatian National Bank or the Croatian National Bank. Maybe it was supposed to be even the central part of this report, but we miss him. The government, on the other hand, was called the Croatian National Bank. It is true that the Croatian National Bank allowed enormous borrowing during 2002, 2003. It is also true that the current government continued under quotes, to encourage this external debt indirectly by allowing this behaviour to banks in the same dynamics as it did by 2003, with the recognition that the government had begun to borrow on the domestic rather than foreign money market, but it is undeniable that external debt is hard to control at this time, but it is clear that if it does not want to encourage civil dissatisfaction, then it is a sure sign of leaving the government in opposition, that this external debt will continue in the future. We have simply learned to spend more than we can earn, the standard is above that gross social product, spending beyond our own abilities, but it may be better for most to go into position, in opposition than for the country to go bankrupt. Well, now he's offered his retirement back, and I say hello. I just wish I knew how it would end up being done. If this change of account or indexation occurs, it will turn out that the pensioners will repay their debt to themselves. Well, let's let it go now. The Croatian National Bank must be autonomous. However, it is even more important to maintain this course for citizens, and such is the majority that I would say I do not know about interest or exchange rates, or by course not to say by exchange rate. I repeat the external debt of the state is 80%, and to join the European Union should be 60%. The state is now in charge of Croatia, as well as banks to lend it to their queens on the other hand. The governor has recently introduced the reserve to 40%, which will say that the bank must deposit 40 euros on 100 euros. The limit of inviolability for banks ranges between 50% and 55%, and here we come to another key reason why, for example, Croatia needs the European Union, first for investment and second for the euro, i.e. We need a monetary union because in the long term Croatia will accumulate its problems more and more, rather than reduce. It makes sense to pursue a higher standard. They need more and more recent goods for our households or households. Croatia does not import them, it does not produce them, which is why it has to import them, which means that external debt will increase more and more and more in the future or in the years ahead. With debt, it's clearly a little comforting. Companies owe 2004. 7.8 billion euros or 34.3% of the total foreign debt. Banks 7.7 billion euros or 33.7%. State 7.2 billion euros or 31.9%. However, in the first and second and third cases, the Croatian National Bank must ensure whether it owes the state to foreign creditors or creditors whether they owe the banks or whether they owe domestic companies regardless of whose ownership. Clearly, it's probably not time to panic because on page 90 here says the liquidity of international payments is still large, the government debt at the end of 2004 was 98.6 billion kuna or 48% of gross social product for 2004 plus those 13.2 billion kuna guarantees, meaning 111.8 billion kuna or even 54.1% of gross social product. In 2004, the government debt increased by 12.5 billion kuna but in the first three months of 2005, the trend clearly continued with the same dynamics as in 2004. All in all, the Croatian National Bank should ask that the Parliament report quarterly, that it monitors all the trends that life means, the National Bank Assembly must guarantee full independence and take care of exchange rates and interest because in the situation where citizens are in charge as old Greece, it is certainly for all of us, especially citizens who have obligations towards banks and most importantly. All in all, this report is commendable, this report has sparked not only a parliamentary debate but also a public interest and finally this report should be accepted absolutely clearly. However, I want to draw attention once again to those elements that someone calls competitiveness. Croatia falls on the scale mostly due to labour costs. Labour costs are 925 euros in Croatia, in one Romania 286 or Bulgaria 204 euros. So it's no problem that I don't know the corruption, the ineffectiveness of the administration how much work costs, but at the cost of work, it can't be touched because if that happens, our people will be hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40313	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40314	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cain said the government allowed the same foreign debt growth which is not true. The government is working to stabilise the share of foreign debt in gross domestic product and the rate of foreign debt growth from 31.6% in 2003 to 14.5% in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40315	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues! By reading the Croatian National Bank Report, we can once again say that the report is made up as usual very professionally and of course we in HSS will also support this report. The 2004 Croatian National Bank Report shows slower economic growth. The entire work of the Croatian National Bank was, as we know, marked by fighting and by measures to limit foreign debt, which has also caused a lot of controversy in the Croatian professional public. Due to foreign debt growth, which reached 22.7 billion euros at the end of 2004, which is 2.9 billion euros and 14.5% more than at the end of 2003, respectively. Due to all the problems that follow the external responsibility, the Croatian National Bank is forced to increase the rate of minimum reserves at a higher rate of value of its foreign exchange liabilities, which banks are obliged to maintain on a daily basis. It is assumed that these measures would be much more effective in reducing the debt because so far, 35 % of the value of their reserve did not give the desired effect. Banks continue to be in debt abroad and therefore there is a need to increase reserve requirements and a higher percentage to reverse the impact between interest rates on the foreign and foreign markets. The public debt structure is such that most of the debt is lost on foreign investment, these are credit-based debt conditions obtained from persons with whom the debtor is in a ownership relationship of more than 10%. The second is banks with 7.7 billion euros or a third of total foreign debt. For the first time, the state is in third place most in debt by issuing bonds. During the last ten years, the deficit has been financed by the replating of the savings of our citizens from abroad, privatisation and unfortunately by borrowing abroad. The external debt in the last two years increased from 62.2% of gross domestic product at the end of 2002 to 82.1% of gross domestic product in 2004. The balance of payments deficit is 4.6% of gross domestic product and the growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter is the lowest in the last six-year period due to the lack of investment. The deficit of the state budget in 2005 increased by 3.7% ma 4.2% because it has scheduled the revenue side of the budget and of course we spend more than we can income and the government as any government, the government as a government continues to buy its position with unrealistic promises. Because of all of this, we support and think that restrictive measures are needed from the Central Bank which are aimed at reducing the growth of external debt because, regardless of the measures of the Croatian National Bank, some major banks, which due to their withdrawal, have reduced interest rates by attracting new clients, which tells us that banks still make large profits in our country, regardless of the Central Bank's measures, and how could they not, if they are in charge of the countries of origin at lower interest rates and money, be placed with us at greater interest and thus make profits on interest differences, which we hold to be speculative business with the aim of achieving extra profit in a very easy way. In addition, they do not go to risk placements, they do not invest enough in the economy, in the economy, primarily in production programs, they place a largely new population. The people's credits have increased nominally by 10.3 billion kuna. The population is more interesting to banks because of higher profits and lower risk, faster insemination, return insurance measures are simpler because the population is connected to banks and the population still has a great need for loans which can also talk about the poor standard of our citizens who unfortunately have to deal with their living needs by loans and often by minuses in current accounts, and also pay for interest rates. The Croatian National Bank must constantly intervene on the foreign market in order to keep inflation in the given frameworks. Because of the appreciation of the kuna, it is forced to withdraw the domestic currency due to excess kuna liquidity. With its interventions, the Croatian National Bank bought 510.2m euros on the foreign exchange market in 2004 and thus created 3.8 billion kunas of primary money, i.e. the demand for business banks for kunas. There are unusual situations happening with us. Kuna is not strong because of its strong and strong economy, which is the only real indicator of the value of national currency, but because of speculative transactions of business banks. One of the reasons for the appreciation of the kuna is the purchase of foreign exchanges by the state, banks, businesses and foreign investments also affect the exchange rate. Banks artificially strengthen kuna before summer to reduce the euro rate in summer months during the tourist season when the euro is due and in these transactions they make a profit in the second half of the year. Therefore, the central bank must continuously intervene on the foreign exchange market and reduce liquidity by administrative measures. Due to market disturbances, it has failed to implement the state budget in the first three months. Not all state-owned companies have yet to be privatised, which can be privatised, there is no competitiveness and there is not at least enough. Exports are half as low as imports, investments are stagnating, economic growth has really slowed from 4.3% to 3.8% in 2004. One reason is the weakening of private consumption investments, which records a mild stagnation and personal consumption was the strongest generator of gross domestic product growth in 2004. The justification of the existence of a bank owned by a state or more regional banks should be reconsidered. I must stress that I am absolutely against the etatization of the banking system, but I am in favour of depositing the money in one of the regional headquarters or branches, such as in some region, to invest that money there. The local population is primarily interested in their own economy and their own employment, not in some imaginary and global ones. Monetary and fiscal and economic policy must be harmonised, otherwise there will be chaos on the market. New reforms are needed to ensure faster growth of debt cuts and new employment. The irregular development of the region is a great pain in Croatia as whatever government comes to go is still going to centralisation, not doing anything to decentralised the system. There is not only one region to develop, but others to stagnate and live. Gross domestic product in developed regions as we know it is significantly higher and is one versus three compared to those that are slightly less developed. Where the money deposited in regional centres and other banks in the area goes. Apparently, it does not return to that region where the funds are deposited. The state must create new frameworks, encourage investment, rather than reform justice, science, education in combat and enter the fight against corruption at all levels, and eradicate the gray economy. The Croatian National Bank cannot prevent the consequences of poor fiscal policy or be responsible for the government's poor moves. As soon as possible, it is necessary to adapt legislation with European ones and learn from advanced countries in order not to reach its periphery and Balkan cough. Such a fiscal policy of trom, a massive, inefficient and self-efficient administration inefficient judiciary, incompetence, lack of investment, a policy of unequal odds does not say that we are going in the right direction. I would quote here actually the words that Mr. Darko Marine said recently when he found out that we should imagine ourselves at the grades that the National Competitiveness Council stated, which is primarily worrying about the decline in competitiveness. We have been overcome by all countries as we have heard from the European Union, but also by candidates for the European Union Bulgaria and Romania. Croatia is a 79-seat global competition index of 104 countries. It lags behind in all key indicators of competitiveness, with the greatest deterioration in technological development, the quality of public institutions, stability and the degree of corruption. According to the growth competitiveness index, Croatia fell to 61 places in 53 places in 2003, and according to the business competitiveness index from 62nd to 67th place. Croatia fell from 2 seats to 21 seats in 2002 according to some indicators of competitiveness. The biggest decline in public expenditure in productivity, and the reasons for non-productivity are in a large share of state aid, ineffectiveness of public administration and justice, corruption and slow changes in the business environment. And I would actually conclude the words Mr. Darko Marine said at the conference where he presented the indicators. If Croatia wants to stand in this place as it must now run, and if it wants to progress it must run faster than others. In addition to all these remarks that do not say that our indicators are completely satisfactory and that we are going in the right direction, I would like to commend the Croatian National Bank Report and its efforts to make all the negatives we have seen in the part where the Croatian National Bank can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40317	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, dear colleague Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Deputy Governor. I will speak strictly on behalf of the HSP Club about the Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004, and a general test as performed by my colleague Cain for the budget rebalancing will leave for another opportunity. But mostly I will say by sticking to a strict report almost the same thing he said. In fact, in the report of the Croatian National Bank, all indicators indicate that I quote the terms used in the report. They point to stagnation, decline, slowness, negative trend, slower growth and weaker budgeting, not only compared to previous periods but also to all countries with which we traditionally compare. In this regard, it is certainly only a question of how much of this rolling is of course a contribution to the bottom, the contribution of the current government, how much of the previous authorities will discuss it and decide on it, it is certainly, whose greater contribution to the collapse of Croatia in financial terms. In this context, however, it is interesting to have access to the Croatian National Bank, which is indeed manifested as an independent institution. Reading the report necessarily gives you the impression that the report has actually been developed by an economic institute dealing with analytical issues, and that is why it is understandable that everything that colleague Cain has tried to say here. And not the Croatian Institute, but some international over time and national ones that have certainly raised small issues of statehood. The objectives, tasks and jobs and position of the Croatian National Bank are normally regulated by Croatian regulations, and what has been done is in fact question how it is applied. Here are a few examples. First of all, this refers to salaries and other material rights of employees in the Croatian National Bank. We Assembly representatives are very often exposed to very harsh criticism from the public because of our incomes that we do not deserve in public opinion. And look at this report. The Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials makes state officials both governor and deputy and vice governor of the Croatian National Bank. They are state officials with all the rights that come out of it, but it seems to be without the obligations and responsibilities that apply to all other state officials and also to us parliamentary deputies, which is primarily political responsibility. Those political responsibilities do not have, although I will allow myself to notice the deputy governor put actually a red tie as a symbol in the Anglo Saxon world of politicians. But if government officials are political officials then it is necessary to say that the managers of the Croatian National Bank are politicians in the right sense. If they are not, then they do not belong in our court in the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials. In addition, a special position is morally legally asked to express itself in the highest salaries of all the authorities of the state, and the Croatian National Bank is the body of the state government and only with sui genericis status, though. In doing so, it is important to highlight the peak of haughtiness in our court, which is viewed in the amount of, for example, the regression to Croatian National Bank employees, of the care of 7 and a half thousand kunas. So in the country where they just found all these negative indicators that I've listed before, these are stagnation, decline, slowness, negative trend, slower growth, and so on, they're giving themselves the biggest regression in the country. This authorship, therefore, means as a philosophical term from the Greek language, independence in terms of self-sufficiency is also expressed in the fact that their business as well as other activities cannot be controlled. Done at Brussels, 30 June 2018. The State Audit Act is also set to carry out a revision of the Croatian National Bank but the State Audit Office has not had access there since 1999. Therefore, the Law on the State Audit Office was amended at the end of 2004 but the fact remains that the revision in the Croatian National Bank was not in the period 1999 to 2004. So until last year. If it is undeniable that it would be necessary for the state audit to start dealing with the business of the Croatian National Bank as finally stated by counterpart Mato Churchvenac, and from which the position seems not far from the current minister, because on the remarks that the Office for Auditation is not authorised to look for information on the business of the Croatian National Bank Ivan Shuker said that the Croatian National Bank is not a German but a Croatian institution and that credit data can be requested even by the Parliament if there is absolutely political will. It is his statement in Vesnik since 31.5.2002 on the parliamentary debate on the powers of the State Audit Office. So if it is not disputed, the question arises who can even control the Croatian National Bank and whose institution is it? If the Croatian National Bank is a Croatian institution and it is not negligible in my own court, the fact that the Croatian National Bank is working in the leading places of the party, for example, the Americans, but nevertheless the Croatian National Bank, as I guess, would still be necessary for the Croatian institution to launch actions aimed at protecting citizens from a series of very small chicane bank procedures that we will probably all agree on is not Croatian. These banks in different ways using poverty of Croatian citizens through various imaginary fees such as billing fees, opening accounts, closing accounts, administrative fees and similar inventions are constantly taken from citizens annually by several tens or hundreds of kunas. Such large numbers, however, make huge profits to them, and citizens, however, are not necessarily going to seek expensive and snail justice as a rule, for such small amounts. The Croatian National Bank, however, could do nothing on these issues. The Croatian National Bank has a whole range of possibilities to end such actions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian National Bank Act, if necessary, I will also quote it for their information, which says: "The Croatian National Bank may propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of laws relating to the achievement of the objectives and tasks of the Croatian National Bank or which are generally related to the part-time work of the Croatian National Bank including monetary policy, monetary operations, credit, balance, payment, foreign exchange and banking." The law on the Croatian People's Bank under these procedures that I spoke about by foreign banks did not propose that the Croatian Bank lay down any regulation that would address the issue of bank behaviour towards citizens and could and should. And she had to. Of course, the issue of co-operation and stand by arrangement with the IMF is also raised as a separate issue. Unless the Croatian National Bank is an economic institute that only gives us statistical data and different balances to expect it to take all measures to protect the Republic of Croatia from seeking an IMF that only comes down to one. And that demand and that is the bottom of what it comes down to is keeping Croatia alive to that level that it can repay debts, but never let it develop beyond that level. Because if they were to become a truly developed modern state then they would no longer be IMF clients, and the IMF, of course, cares about keeping its clientele as long as possible. Therefore, the Croatian Party's Club of Rights would once say to the drying-out no, the lifeless and lifeless report of the Croatian National Bank will be completely indifferent or restrained, as they are finally according to life in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40319	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected counterpart Josko, Jaksa Marasovic. Here's your colleague, Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40320	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues like it's Friday, so there's less of us. This report, unfortunately, comes early in the second half of 2005, which is, I would say very important for the picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, for the picture of the situation that was in 2004 and this is as you know the first year of the behaviour of the authorities of this present position. And certainly it would have been best if that report had come immediately at the beginning of the month of April because as far as I know it was ended in, at the end of the first quarter, and probably the public would have been sensitized by what this report says and different from what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. I'll talk about some data from this report for an illustration. Real GDP growth fell from 4.3 in 2003 to 3.8 in 2004. Personal consumption contributes to GDP around 2.4% and is very important in its growth in 2004. So it's important in its growth, and we heard it's falling. fixed capital investments decreased from 16.8% in 2003 to only 4.4% in 2004. It's simple to calculate that the growth in investment has fallen by four times. Four times in the last year parallel, i.e. the investments in 2004 were one quarter of what happened in 2003. The well-invested investment money is always the wheel of the complete development of society and state and the improvement of individuals. We all know that from the time of some ancients, and let's just remember I won't mention fascists, let's remember the Roosweltt and the New Deal that did this and the Americas pulled out of the crisis, and we're stopping what started today. The net amount of goods and services made a positive contribution to GDP growth throughout 2004 of 0.5% points, thereby partially compensated for the contribution of investments. The question, however, is what is involved in this export growth and how much is responsible for it. Here is a very important statement, it is true that there is a growth in exports in 2004 but it is also important to say that the basic segments of this growth are exports of oil and oil derivatives and it is clear what it means in the woods because as we know today, what we are struggling with, what the whole world is struggling with, is the growth of oil barrels on the world market, and this is clearly increasing the price of oil derivatives on the market and it is one of the essential elements that is talking about what has been exported. And the second element is the export of ships. So export products from shipbuilding. What's up with that? A boat when contracted then gets one percent advance on that boat to buy the most necessary materials purchased for the construction of the ship. The final price shall be paid by delivery of the ship. So all that was registered in 2004 was contracted either in 2002 or in 2001, it was possible that some before the deadline was agreed in 2003. So this is something that contributed to export growth in 2004. By the way, I have to say that there's one thing that makes me happy, that the rest of that growth is still some kind of processing industry. It's something that's optimistic and it's commendable. Industrial value added growth slowed from 4.5% in 2003 to 3.9% in 2004. Now this is the data that says the opposite of what I just said. So the processing industry is exporting, and industry growth is dropping. The largest drop in added value in 2004 was in construction and was 5.6% compared to 20.2% in 2003. So that's the same relationship as before I said four times. The added value in trade is also somewhat reduced, I guess slowed down consumption growth, and the growth of added value in the activities of hotels and restaurants, which is otherwise an indicator of tourism growth, is also very slow that it is amazing for those who do not know the situation. But we who know something about it, we know that 40% of Dalmatia's capacities are out of service, that there's absolutely nothing to be done about that plan and that it's completely incomprehensible. I must admit that even the previous government didn't understand the problem or they understood so they didn't want to achieve anything. In Dalmatia you have a day today it is the easiest way to look through Split and through Dubrovnik, a large majority of capacities out of function. I think that could be solved very effectively and in a very efficient way and that we would have fear of a great debt than we could have had today's fat income, because believe me today in Split for years it's already been going on that in the first month you can't find a room. A bedroom, a businessman if there is anything to come to Split can't find in Split. Employment is also slower than in 2003, i.e. slower employment growth. Employment growth in 2004 is double that of 2003. One, two, five. The registered unemployment rate in 2004 was one percentage point lower than in 2003. Lower. But with this negative trend and with a negative trend, it continues, because at the end of 2004, only 0.2% lower than at the end of 2003. It also tells you about where we are. So we've brought the trend to zero. Real estate wage growth fell from 4.5 in 2003 to 3.8% in 2004. In the public sector, real wage growth fell from 4.8 in 2003 to only 1.8 in 2004. Here you have information that gross wages have grown somewhat, of which the state has profited something because it has taken through taxes and contributions, but it's all the same to people. People don't care about the state. They care about their pay. Consumer prices rose by 2.1% compared to their growth of 1.8% in 2003. So it's a higher growth. The inflation growth at the end of 2003 and 2004 was in December 2004. 2.7% and in December 2003. 1.7%. And watch out this report is good because it speaks of many things that show the situation in the economy of the Republic of Croatia and I think we got it in time to make it sound alarm and probably means alarm today because as we heard two days ago in that debate about the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia we heard even worse and worrying data, even worse than these. So, the alarm's a long time ago, but I guess the deaf rule this country, so they don't hear that alarm, and they're a little concerned about it all because if it wasn't for that, they'd probably be doing something to stop the negative trend. All the data shows a negative trend. No data except for a few exceptions like I said about exports, but we explained why there is no positive trend. Second, what I was going to say. I would not like to talk about how the banking system works in Croatia because 97% of the banks are bought by foreigners. Profits have much bigger than in their home countries. So they work fantastically, and more than that. They're making money here that they didn't even hope they could make. They're dealing with various types of lising business over real estate. Those who sold it to them must know why they sold them, I guess they're full of pockets. CNB, I have to say, with these measures that he's taking to do what he can, he's doing it to stop the external debt with these instruments. I'm the only one with the layman, I don't know what that means, which is the difference between external debt and internal debt. When you owe me everything, it's the same to me whether I owe Kai Buchanan or I owe it to someone in America. And it's the same for them. It's all the same to them if I took too much from them. And then that and their concern becomes. Now, the question is how much of that internal debt. You take back from banks owned by foreigners, so there's a number of questions that I clearly don't know how to answer but it's a debt and it's not a good friend to anyone. He's probably the problem not only of who's in charge but of who's in charge and it's the only good side of the debt, but the debt is not only good if it goes into the current business. When debt goes into development, when debt goes into investments that are profitable, when you say highways, even though you know it's not that big money. The highway from Karlovac to Split costs 15 billion kuna. That's 2 billion euros and we owe 23 billion euros if I'm not mistaken. Now, imagine how little we're in charge of the highway. And now I wonder what was the brains of those previous ones, what they didn't charge for those 15 billion kunas and solve that problem a long time ago and not just now. So it is obvious that this debt does not go exactly into development projects but rather goes into something called current business, which is called consumption at these current costs. And unfortunately, we have a situation that we have. We're a country with a quarter of the pensioners' population. When you add up the statistical pensioners and the unemployed, you have more than employees. And we're a land of wonders, we function I don't know by what. There's no formula in the world economy where we operate. Probably thanks to the gray economy and thanks to the leads from abroad. Probably thanks to that. And I guess that's why we don't have the courage to deal with the gray economy because it's better off in a public pocket than a man who's satisfied. So imagine who's crazy working for 2,000 kunas if he's got the welfare of a thousand-and-a-half kuna. He gets welfare for a thousand and a half kuna and he makes six thousand kunas in black. Well, he's not crazy working for 2,000 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40321	A colleague of Jake's, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40323	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40324	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote by my colleague Marasovic, who claims that everything we've been doing for a year and a half is what we've been doing in 2002, 2003. Unless he meant the agreed five thousand apartments with no project documentation, no land. Unless he meant the signed collective agreements with unions that didn't meet, which are now going to cost us billions. If that's what he meant, then I apologize for answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40325	So now that the correction of an incorrect quote is not. So please don't do this, but use the replicas institute. You can answer in the replica with what you disagree with but do not go to this institute unless you correct the incorrect quote. Dear fellow Sime Prztnik on behalf of the HDZ Club for 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40326	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, each of us has the right to consider and observe the report in his own way, so let me refer on behalf of the HDZ Club to this report with particularly apostropheated phenomena that were characteristic but for the reporting period. We're talking about the report in 2004 but we heard a lot more about it. I will not refer to any of the previous rapporteurs on behalf of my clubs but I would like to warn that this is the report for the 2004 occurrences, that this report contains a whole series of useful information and that last week we may have reason and reason to debate the annual budget and we will have in future so that this report should be observed particularly through its contents. I will therefore try in the introduction to look back at those elements that I think are important and contain macroeconomic, fiscal and monetary indicators, of course in the end this is a report of monetary policy which we say on the one hand must be autonomous and on the other hand we call it how it conducts society or others. Through this report, several characteristic data were presented through macro-economic indicators in the introduction. So it is said that the gross social product in the world is 5.1%, and I point out this is due to the analysis of our later sequence, in the United States 4.4, in the European Union 2% and in the Republic of Croatia 3.8%. In total, I can conclude on behalf of the Club that the main objectives of macroeconomic policy in that year for which the report is submitted as well as in that part of fiscal policy with basic characteristics which I will support later data and relative indicators. This is the growth of the economy, the reduction of government budget deficits, the consolidation of public finances, the reduction of current balance of payments deficits through indicators that go, the slow rise of external debt, the stabilisation of exchange rates, and we heard and I will briefly highlight the pressures of the appreciation we have in this time, the improvement in that year of credit rating to 3B regardless of what we have heard different opinions. The gross social product we said was 3.8% but we forgot that at the end of 2003, in the last quarter of the previous year it was somewhere on 3.3, so it had to be stopped there and raised and kept at 3.8% with all those structural elements that matter because we don't have time to explain why such phenomena occurred. What I find important is that personal consumption is clear as to what it is generated and how much it affects the social gross product, that it has grown no matter what is significantly less than in the previous year, and I particularly point out that state consumption has fallen for the first time in a long time. Therefore, there are certain effects in this consumption. Exports increased and imports gradually. It grows but significantly slows down growth so that for the first time in a few years, there is still an increased degree of coverage of imports at a rate of about 48.2 three as far as it seems to me in my mind that these indicators, especially when we see in the export structure, all of which makes the structure of exports clearly show that in industrial production structurally it gradually assumes a more significant role in this reporting year that we are talking about. Capital investment has increased by 1.2%. Industrial production, regardless of how I say again in the structure of chemical processing, metritrerading, etc. And that was there in the foot somewhere about three percent growing. The retail trade also had an increase rate, although it was negatively affected by investment, capital imports and what remains indirectly affecting it. Tourism has also grown among those basic indicators that are being measured today, whether it is a good indicator or not. Employment still grew at a rate of one full two percent, and unemployment fell at a rate of six percent. Gross wages rise slightly faster than net wages, but net wages rise at a rate of 5.9%. Now, if that's not what the workers care about, then it's really worrying because it's still an increase. I particularly point out that prices are stable with all the pressures, and that inflation has stabilized as I want to believe this year is oscillating, but that it will stabilise primarily here because of the impact of the price of oil, the price of steel, especially shipbuilding that later affects exports and oil through that part of exports, so that these two have a significant impact on this through food, gas, etc. In the financial sector there was an extremely significant pressure on the appreciation of the kuna, and eventually that pressure would depend on this report, of course, probably not to take action and today it would be anyone who knows what situation, but given the indicators that were known at the time he was still stabilised and we can say that he was detained at a mild appreciation level. The CNB has heard and directed foreign debt through measures, and this is not a mere commitment, although it is perfectly normal for state measures to be macro-economic, fiscal, developmental, and monetary policies to be coordinated. In the end, we all act towards the same goal and should achieve that same goal, and in that sense I believe that the CNB has achieved its objective. In monetary developments, the tightening of monetary policy is characteristic of what is important, and the details and timings are not available, and what is often called into question was an extremely high rate of liquidity for banks in Croatia. Why? Once again structurally, we can discuss it for days, but the fact that it appeared. Now a very short couple of indicators in banks that happens and then that correlation between these phenomena in monetary policy and banks. The credits of banks totaled about 13%, and today says the total mass somewhere around 128, 129 billion let's make it easier for me to spin numbers round, so I just want a brief correlation after as long as possible. So totals about 129 billion. In the population of 18.7% or 65.3 billion, and in particular here it is growing placed in last reporting year in residential loans, about 27%. Both population placements are so risky that they carry mortgages. When banks lend loans, they give the contract and give some interest, and when they give citizens this much money, they take mortgages, and that's the fact and the phenomenon that more and more property of citizens, and through it, that part of social or national property comes under the mortgages of foreigners. From this point on, the risk and the risk of such a debt is then multiplely higher and therefore I point out that this degree of population debt in this situation may be but when we see both savings and deposits that have grown at a rate of 10.4 percent and today total around 104 and some billion, 104 and a half I will say roughly or an increase in monetary mass by about 10 billion. So now we see this correlation that the increase in savings and the increase in deposits totals about 104 billion, and that the rise in bank loans somewhere around 128, nine how many billion and now this comparison, which means in one case and another, and how much risk do these movements bear? In the money market, about 10 billion kuna per foot of somewhere around 25% seems to me to be different, and I already said interest rates have oscillated over the year and eventually stabilised at the level that continued this year. In particular, the capital market has increased its plasma values. Now there's the difference between the external, internal, and actually the emissions of securities and the purchases of those securities that then close that part of the total money mass that's moving on the money market. In the capital market in particular, Krobeks records a 32% rate, which is very significant. At least I, or we appreciate that even in the securities market, it's only 92.3 percent. I point out that it is important for that year, however, as one of the key indicators, to reduce the difference in the value of Croatian euro bonds and German reference bonds, which also points to certain positive movements. In the course, inter-curricular relations between the exchange rate of kuna and a significant appreciation but still less appreciation relationship between the exchange rate of kuna average, annually, kuna and euro, than it was an appreciation relationship between the kuna and the dollar that was at a higher level, around 10% remained in the previous year. I already said the external debt had grown at a rate but significantly reduced, almost halved compared to last year through not then conditionalally negatively higher debt and values on the domestic market. But it shows a slowdown in that period. The banks were for the first time and this is a certain positive indicator for the first time skipped state and others and now they lead first in line. Other others are the banking sector, i.e. the state sector comes in third place according to the relations that have been raised. The deficit in between, now the order is anyway, but these indicators are clearly showing a phenomenon. The deficit is about 4.9% with the planned slightly larger of course around 4.5%, but given the rate that was 6, 6.1, two three from the previous year then we have significant deviations or decreases in deficits in that year. State finances are characterised by the achievement of total revenues, consolidated, because it is now impossible to analyse around 96,4 billion and 94 billion in expenditure. There is also an important structure for the state to appear inside, the local self-government of each other, so that it is seen in this structure that the state holds a very significant share. The internal external debt of the state is still a significant difference towards external debt and is spinning somewhere around 55 billion and means still quite enough space for an internal debt to make that adjustment. In monetary policy instruments, I have already said this once again, and we are apostrophe that monetary authorities have significantly sharpened monetary policy in the previous year. We point out in particular what the report said had a significant impact on the creation of primary money, which greatly facilitated the country's debt, but monitoring within the state, within that, and we also have a characteristicly strong banking sector that has a surplus liquidity in that year. Therefore, the banks, however much the monetary authorities have led, I will feel free to say sterilisation policy in this sector, and it is still rising and still resisting, and not that we have enough space to try to keep some, certain relations together in the next period of time. Through mandatory reserves and border reserves, the CNB has also significantly influenced movements within that monetary policy sector, but what I particularly want to point out is that in those international reserves that are valid it points out and now here because they ask many questions these days and debates about how and why the strukutres see after the loss that occurs. I would like to point out once again today that in this, in international reserve, they also had a certain increase but a significant decrease compared to the previous period, however, structural changes occurred in these relations so that today's currency structure makes up somewhere this EURO makes up about 75% and others make the difference with what the dollar seems to me to be ten and some percent and some yen, probably others. So in this structure of international reserves, and for the sake of interval relations, there has been a loss that has been repeated for several years, so we pray the final word if possible and the review is short to see it seems to me from 385 million this year somewhere, or how much of this loss that I say stems from the interval of relations within it, and it is often a few years already repeating itself, and this total structure of international reserves, of course, is related to the carbonic and debt structure of the state because it is not anyone's special will. So this is how we think that the CNB led an acceptable monetary policy and that we HDZ Club and we will accept this report with one conclusion. Here is the last second to particularly highlight the banking sector by this structure and its impact significantly on monetary and total financial flows within the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40327	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. There is a respected deputy vice president, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40328	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues I will, of course, vote to accept this report from the Croatian National Bank because it is quite true that the Croatian National Bank, as said in its previous presentation, has led a good monetary policy. But let us speak a little more widely about this report and remind myself of some provisions of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution states: “The ownership is binding” in paragraph 2. "The holder of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good." Article 49, paragraph 3 encourages economic progress and social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all its regions, and Article 53 says that the Croatian National Bank is the central bank of the Republic of Croatia. In the third paragraph, among other things, that the Croatian National Bank in its work is independent and responsible to the Croatian Parliament. Why did I start with the Constitution? I will say or it will open the question in itself if some articles of the Law on the Croatian National Bank are mentioned. I would like to remind, among other things, that the Croatian National Bank, in accordance with Article 3 above, maintain price stability in paragraph 2, also has the support of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and will act in accordance with the principles of open market economy and free competition, and that I do not list, and so on and so forth, in Article 35(1) of I quote, among other things, the Croatian National Bank may propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws relating to the achievement of the objectives and tasks of the Croatian National Bank or, in general, to banking from financial laws to banking. I again underline what I quoted in Article 2(3), and it is said "not questioning the achievement of its basic objective, the Croatian National Bank will support the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia and will act in accordance with the principles of open market economy and free competition. Why is that? Because it just turned on an alarming light. The Republic of Croatia's economy is in serious crisis. Only the National Bank's report warns that it's in stagnation, that there's a fall, a growth rate. That it is also slowed the growth of certain areas, that it simply weakens the full budget and so on and so on. So it's making less and less of a contribution to the common good. Of course, in such a situation, the question arises, and whether it is enough for the Croatian National Bank to take care only of its basic objective and stability of prices and monetary policy, or whether it should also begin to reach out to the powers of the law and the Constitution relating to the development of the economy and supporting the development of the economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Marasovic and a colleague from HDZ have now said one big thing. The fact is that in Croatia, most of the financial capital is located in foreign-owned business banks. The fact is that in the majority of public debt, the biggest debtors are not the state but the banking system, the legal person and the population. And the fact is that it guarantees the return of its debt to the instruments of insurance called state-owned assets owned by local self-government units and privately owned by our citizens. And the fact is also that they are the largest depositors of financial capital funds again in these same banks as saving, as the deponents of the local self-government unit when talking about the state then it is of course the National Bank which... Approves payment and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the question of colleagues and colleagues is what to do to reverse banking and financial policy in the Republic of Croatia's business banks. To focus on encouraging economic development and investment investments, growth and progress. And not so much towards the population and the jobs that are in the end line for the purpose of actually putting their paws on the property located in the Republic of Croatia. I personally think that the time has come to talk about this openly and to talk openly about the issue that is related to Article 49(3) where it is said, again, I quote: "The state encourages economic progress as well as the social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all its regions." In person even more. In our Slavonia almost as in Lica, not to mention that during the unemployment rates in the areas of peripheral areas of the Republic of Croatia, Slavonia, Lika, Dalmatia and its hinterland, there are areas which have been affected by the war and which have contributed most to the independence and sovereignty and freedom of the Republic of Croatia. That in these areas the unemployment rate ranges from 30% to 40%, even 50% of the population returning to free areas. In such a situation, the question arises, "What's really worth it?" First, for natural economic reasons it is quite clear that lending in the agricultural food system is not the same as in the other part of the economy where capital is faster and where the business year does not last 16 months. Secondly, the question is, what do you do to stimulate it? I agree that in such a situation, what happened to Croatia should not have happened. That all the banks in the area in the late 1990s went into recovery and bankruptcy. Only Slavonska Banka remains, and it is owned by foreigners. I ask the question whether the time has come for the economic and financial policy of the Croatian National Bank, together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to encourage it, I have been talking about it since the mid-90s, to establish our economy and economic operators in private, from the crafts, peasant and cooperative alliance through combinations and companies to establish an Agricultural Bank that will monitor the agricultural and food system. The question arises whether the time has come to establish the business banks which will have, as owners in the economic sense, economic operators from Croatia and which will be, to invest their depositors and their own, their savings and their profits in the end with them? And that will give, create potential for investment investments, domestic investment investments... The question arises why our fellow mayors, the mayors of the municipalities, mayors should keep the budgets of their units of local self-government in banks that are owned by foreign governments and which, from that money, lend loans to their own population and themselves related to the development of local self-government, and in the same local self-government huge property owned by units, local self-government cannot be put into office because there is not enough financial capital to start it. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Is it time to start discussing that this National Bank and that the Republic of Croatia, through its government, is launching a policy that will ensure that they start to form so-called. municipal banks that will be monitored by municipal growth and development, but not only from the aspect of infrastructure and public services development but also for the development specific function that needs to be enabled, and our law allows local self-government units to deal with managerial affairs and... Investments related to the assets they have are profiting and actually reducing the burden on the population on the one hand, while at the same time hiring and solving social problems of the social population rather than giving it through a drop on social assistance. [[You don't understand.]] What's this about, buddy? The time has come to make it clear to ourselves that we are too poor a country to put the little accumulation that is being left out through the general either through shared consumption into individual funds into a function of foreign capital rather than in our own function. We need to talk seriously about this, and if I may say one great reformer in fact 20th century... Ping said in China at the time when he saw that they had reached the wall, so it doesn't matter what color cats are important to hunt mice. That's what I'm saying right now. The competition of banking and financial capital is desirable, it is desirable for domestic and foreign investors to come here to Croatia and to be present in the financial capital in a banking and insurance society etc. But for God's sake, we can't be left to foreign capital alone, and we can't get into a situation where that apartment capital dictates the economic policy of this desire and dictates. Among other things, through the International Monetary Fund, other insurance instruments and the same personal property that had to be pawned by those who had raised housing loans, which they had bought on the lease cars, etc. It is additionally ensured so that he had to force this scale, let's not say I would, but was brought to the table to sign an agreement on which he would receive from the inflows and from the inflows of the privatisation funds in the funds of the budget to be paid back and service the public debt. Fellows, this is the second insurance of the same person to be placed by these foreigners here, and they placed the money of our citizens, our units of local self-government, our legal entities and economic and commercial companies. I'm not saying that something came out of the money, but they make a lot of money on that money because it's a few times cheaper on the international financial capital market than that money that was brought to Croatia, and it's repeatedly charged through interest rates in Croatia, etc. In that part, I believe that this is the last financial report of the Croatian National Bank, which remains stereotypical. It meets the legal criteria, but this development component didn't fully cover it. It is time to talk about it openly and it is time for us in the Parliament to start, because it is only for us and therefore my opinion is that we should already get the next report in this section to see what under this segment of the law of its legal and constitutional powers the National Bank together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the principle of co-decision, co-responsibility and joint action on development policy is doing to put the Croatian economy into a developmental, sustainable development component through increased investment investments, the creation of new jobs and employment and the creation of progress of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40329	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40330	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the SDP club was discussed by colleague Mato Arlovic and there is nothing to add, Mato Churchvenac, I apologize. In my debate that I wish to engage as a representative in the Croatian Assembly of the ordinary average citizens of the Republic, not as an expert who will defend his professional principles. I want to point out, by my judgment, one fact that I have heard in the international world, that in our economic policy, neither de facto nor deura, so neither really nor theoretically in today nor in the past, there is any significant change. Since the adoption of the Stabilisation Programme in 1993, some small changes in economic and monetary policy have occurred between 2000 and 2003. That this is so, with which we can be satisfied in solving basic and major social and economic problems in Croatian society. Are we satisfied with the resolution and increase of the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think we can tell the citizens we're satisfied. Are we satisfied with the increase in those 12 years of unemployment? We cannot be satisfied with the state of unemployment or with this trend of unemployment since the adoption of the Stabilisation Programme, when this policy is defined and implemented persistently, the number of unemployed from 140 to 360,000 citizens has increased. It varies, but it doesn't solve the problem. Have we agreed on what strategic developments these are? We didn't agree, and that's why we have permanent policy changes. Permanent policy changes, and she insists on not giving results. Now, you should quote what counterpart Arlovic quoted what the task is and what the objectives of the Croatian National Bank are set under the law not to say that the Croatian National Bank is indeed neutral in terms of correction, its views in the conduct of the Monetary Policy, but is not independent when it must not question its independence, support economic policy and influence the development of this policy. She's not on her own. And citizens are wondering on the basis of this policy why it is a persistent demonstration that the Croatian National Bank is in charge of price stability only. Is the purpose of the Croatian National Bank to tell citizens you have stable prices and be satisfied with that? Well, no, citizens don't care how their standard of living and their jobless position will be expressed economically. They don't care about that at all. No expert debate, they're interested in real life. The alarming fact in this report is that the Croatian National Bank reacts later after trends are realized, after trends cause bad consequences. It doesn't work directly, it doesn't create, it does, and it works fire. Here's how the Croatian National Bank itself says that. In the chapter of the monetary movement of the international reserve over the last ten-year period, the current account deficit was financed by repatriation of foreign foreign savings by foreign investment in privatisation, so to purchase, and in recent years the deficit has been financed increasingly from foreign borrowing. This resulted in an increase in foreign debt so that Croatia is now among the countries in charge. It concludes that we are in debt up to 62.2% of gross domestic product. Well, we all know that, and Croatian citizens feel it. This is the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia and this high external debt, and now internally, requires extraordinary measures. Croatia's debt of 80.2% of gross domestic product can be even bigger without Croatia being able to do anything, it doesn't even have to be in debt because changing the course can make us foreign creditors more in debt. We can't influence that. It is especially important to point to the debts of Croatian banks. This Croatian in a formal and legal sense. This should indeed be taken into account in the analysis that they are owned by foreign owners. Therefore, their objective is to maximise interest profit rather than invest in production programmes and accept risks of national interest. We as citizens don't remember how I sold the banking system so it can be said for very small or no money but it's not a problem in terms of who I'm going to tell. The sale of these banks has been advocated by people working both in the political and banking systems today, who claimed that the sale of banks will stabilise the economy, reduce interest and increase investment and thus resolve development. Have we achieved those goals? We haven't achieved it. We've been working on it for 12 years. But bank owners really make the most of the money at the placement and often the Croatian state, the safest partner. Now it comes to the question of what we're doing. counterpart Mato Arlovic says quite precisely that the Croatian bank is by definition only responsible to the Parliament. Whether we representatives in the Croatian Parliament can accept only the findings. It doesn't go, so it doesn't go and everything stays the same. I don't think our obligation is to find out. It doesn't work, we can't change things, so whoever endures, let them endure, and certainly those who create that policy know who is benefiting from this policy. They're not ignorant. The results of a poor conversion remain. They always lose jobs. Bank sales remain the result, high interest remains, and they are the most in Europe for their owners of all countries. Why the Croatian state does not change politics, the Croatian government does not change politics. Can't Croatia have its own bank, whether it's an investment export bank, whether it's a municipal bank. Can't we turn our money towards our needs? My colleagues and colleagues, they can't just nod their heads and settle for the findings and the fact that the surgery worked out and the patient died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40331	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40332	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the National Bank, colleagues and colleagues! Unlike some colleagues who looked very negatively at the National Bank report, I would like to point out first of all that the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 was methodologically very high-quality. The second thing is whether we agree or disagree with the state that the Croatian National Bank has stated in its report, and I agree with many things, and I will encourage it in my presentation. In addition, the Croatian National Bank has fulfilled its obligation under Article 58(1). The National Bank Act and for the past financial year submitted its report on time. The report shall provide a review of economic and monetary developments, monetary policy instruments, international reserve management, banking system, payment and vault business. So all that is with the three basic laws governing the business of the Croatian National Bank to the Croatian National Bank was tasked with doing so. One very short review only of the data provided by the Croatian National Bank regarding the macroeconomic situation and business in our country. And, of course, it's based on data from the State Statistics Institute. Therefore, it is not the data of the Croatian National Bank but rather the official institution of the Republic of Croatia. So GDP growth was registered by 3.8%. An important role in this growth was in personal consumption with 2.4 percentage points while investment in fiscal capital was a significant decrease in the second half of 2004 and compared to the previous year. So it is clear to all of us that large investments in road infrastructure were completed in 2004 and that other large investments in such investment activities could not even be done until the road routes of Zagreb-Split were completed. Tourism growth was also slowed down and stalled at 2003 level. Employment increased by 1.2 in 2004 and unemployment was lower by 1 percentage point compared to the previous year. The number of employees on average during 2004 was one million and four hundred thousand and the number of unemployed 309 thousand. Therefore, there are persistent positive movements with which, of course, none of us can be too pleased but we have to register that they exist. And now what is the task of the Croatian National Bank, that it monitors and preserves that there is no unwanted movement in that field. Consumer prices rose by 2.1% in 2004 primarily as a result of the rise in oil, gas and utility prices. However, the prices of agricultural products have been reduced, and the average annual inflation rate has been achieved with an increase of 2.1% compared to the previous year. Limiting inflation and preventing inflation Croatian National Bank ensures... The course of our currency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2004, the exchange rate increased by 0.9% according to the euro and 7.9 compared to the dollar. The pressures on kuna prices were very high during 2004 so the Croatian National Bank intervened on the foreign exchange market and bought from business banks 510m euros, which released 3.8 billion kunas of primary money in circulation and thus secured the necessary liquidity. At the same time, the Croatian National Bank sold the state foreign exchanges of 94.7m euros and withdrawn 741m from circulation. Therefore, it is clear from this that Croatia is a national bank to our business banks who have obviously done speculative work that at the time of the tourist year they have a low price of the euro, they buy it on the market, and then, at the end of the year, at high prices, they will sell it to the National Bank because it will have to buy to maintain the course. Therefore, there is no need to be a great expert in order to identify how such procedures can be obtained. In order to make further borrowings abroad, the Croatian National Bank introduced a 25% limit reserve in July 2004, and at the end of the year, the Croatian National Bank reduced the reserve rate from 19% to 18%, allowing banks to sell foreign currency to pay off the debt. Now I would like to say a few more words about the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank. In early 2004, the bank tightened monetary policy by limiting the use of Lombard loans to five days a month, but abolished auctions of Croatian National Bank's cash registers and stopped issuing cash registers in foreign exchanges. I think it is the right move and that in this direction, the Croatian National Bank should continue to focus its activity. In the middle of the year, the Croatian National Bank introduced new instruments to create and adapt the level of liquidity of the banking system. In 2004, the currency mass increased by only 2% and total liquid assets by 8.5%, as the deputy governor said in his presentation of foreign deposits deposited in banks. What concerns me most, as citizens and as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, is the growth of the placements of our banks. He's up 14%. The structure shows that the main investment, i.e. lending, was the lending of the population with 18.7% and the economy with 8%. I would suggest Mr. President that the Croatian National Bank come to us with a single report on the operations of the parent houses of six of our main banks. I read in one magazine that Reifeisen Bank for 2004 achieved a profit of which 75% achieved in the Republic of Croatia in its business units in the Republic of Croatia. It would be very interesting for us to get one idea of the business of our banks' parent houses, their involvement of their capital in their economy because what they do is actually lending our citizens to buy goods, cars and everything else that is produced in those countries where these parent banks are located. And of course I'll just say a few more sentences. You yourself pointed out that external debt was increased by 14%, of which, of course, the most significant debt increase item has banks because they re-indebted on the world market where they raised cheap loans and placed them in the Republic of Croatia for expensive money. I would conclude with the fact that the report was methodologically quite correct and that the bank was leading a good monetary policy. It's a shame that such monetary policy wasn't led in 2003 when this country was in charge of the new 14 billion, which was then not limited as it is now doing, and I think that's how it should be done. I will certainly support Mr. President's 2004 Croatian National Bank report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40333	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40334	Thank you, Mr. President. Although colleagues before me and in the name of clubs have said, of course, a lot of things that I could repeat, I will not repeat it, but I feel also a moral obligation to participate in this debate for the reason that I consider it to be a bit more time-consuming and although there is very little of us, there is no transmission that this report describes is something that we should be very interested in as representatives. So, I join those who praise the report on methodological approach, its comprehensiveness, expertise, and also the visual to say the impression because it is very perceptible and easy to see but the state that it describes, so in all areas of real life it points to our responsibility and according to the laws that we bring to change and according to certain phenomena of which some are positive and some of the negative ones that we have to change. So I would just briefly look at a few things that are relatively worrying to me after we see that small shifts are made positively to reduce the scissors between exports and imports, so the coverage of exports is higher in 2004 than it was in previous years. Very, very little increased employment. I am pleased that our manufacturing industry, mainly electrical-technical appliances, has been involved in the exports we have achieved, and therefore Croatian smartness in these machines that we have exported. I am glad that the reductions and the grey economy and unfortunately from what is seen, so that the biggest investor in 2004 was a state, so when such an investment in the highway was reduced, then the total investment was reduced, which re-opens the entire web, so when private businesses competed for the business being paid out of fiscus, so the entire field of possible corruption and those all side events that I constantly warn will be avoided when businesses are doing business, so private property with private property is much smaller. I would just perhaps still say that I am concerned about Croatia's responsibility not only of the state, it liked the third place by getting the circumstances and this positive trend of reducing the debt rate is positive. So I'm worried about the overall situation because this report says that with 23 billion in debt, the economy is Croatian. So we come to the population, but we also come to the part that I don't know whether or not we can track and how it's a card business and credit card business where other households and individuals are burdened and where I also join that all these houses, and banks in foreign ownership and those which, of course, banks still have, and that card business encourages the development of jobs, the opening of jobs in their countries, right through the lending of goods from countries from which they come and the increase in borrowing outside, so it says that the difference between the interest they receive is the means by which they receive money and place it to Croatia that big differences in interest. So on these incomes, these banks can live perfectly well. I will not talk about the appearance of their buildings, about the salaries of their employees, but I will talk about the outflows of money from Croatia for the profit of their homes outside and covering those costs and losses in other markets where these banks do the same. So the question arises whether we should, may we, and how we will repay that debt if we have burdened our great-grandsons, and today I am getting circumstances. We will discuss in two, three days and the budget rebalancing, therefore, this co-operation between the monteran and fiscal policies must be much tighter for me. What the Constitution and the National Bank Act therefore requires is essentially the neutrality of the National Bank. I'm not for what Mr. Minister of the former Church said the bank must be completely neutral. No, it must be neutral in the part for which the Constitution and the Law on the National Bank so do. It must direct certain economic movements in the country and therefore today listening to Dr. Slavko Kulić in the morning who was just talking about not only the economic but also the moral component of our borrowing. So it raises the question whether Croatia, which is the goal of all foreign creditors, will be able to return interest regardless of what they call interest? Because it's in everyone's best interest not to bring back the principal. It is in their interest to increase these principals and to them it is important to receive neatly serviced interest. So the question of what and how and who will be able to earn and what to produce to earn interest that we have burdened the future generations and there is the task of our parliamentary representatives and our government that has triggered positive trends and which has therefore driven the development of the economy in this direction to develop its own production, to use domestic potentials in Croatia. To put into office all assets of a state that is not so far. To encourage the economy at every turn and repeat this Committee which was established for cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Croatia should therefore increase its activities so I do not have time in this debate to touch therefore and the course which is essentially one of the components of the development of exports and where we have a constant to say the fight between those who export and those who import. So right now, we have an extremely low kuna rate relative to EURO and other currencies. EURO is, of course, now an accounting unit number 1 that encourages imports. The exporters are in a slightly worse position. I will not say what the exchange rate instability means for these private loans with the currency clause, but there is a question between 7 and 8 kuna if the exchange rate is moving and it is therefore possible in this large range as possible in terms of reducing state spending, maintaining the stability of any wages that we can therefore monitor which are within the sphere of legitimacy and whether it is possible to help exporters except with a minimum increase in the exchange rate and some other monetary and fiscal policy measures. Because the Croatian market is little with this much import of goods. It's less and less for domestic production. So domestic production struggles for, with the country's position on its own market within its own country, and its greatest struggle is therefore to go to other markets. Thus, both fiscal and monetary policy must help develop and produce. I wouldn't do it anymore. So I join those who support this report but I believe that the situation behind this report deserves our attention and our moral and any other obligation to change it for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40335	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40336	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed members of the National Bank are before us a report on the work of the Croatian National Bank for the past year and there are a large number of data that also talk about heritage, which also talk about trends that were in the past year and that speak normally about both the environment and Europe and the world so that these indicators that talk about our economic situation can compare with others. And here are the key things, some of the terms that are repeated and that are important to understand the whole of our problem about the National Bank and actually the gentleman's life in the country. This is primarily the growth of real gross national income, lack of budget, public debt, employment growth rates, inflation and so on. And now I've been comparing these figures to environmental events and they'd say Croatia is in charge of the state. And that's right. And she increased her public debt from 70 to 82% which is not good. However, if we compare ourselves with other countries in Europe that are members of the European Union, then we see that, say, Belgium, Greece, Italy have a 100%, 100% index point. So worse than we'd say. It's the same when you look at the lack of budget. It is allowed in Europe 3% of gross national income. However, one Germany has 5.3%, so 2.3 index points more than allowed. And we planned 4.6% this year and last year, and that's what we did, and it should be reminded that a year before that it was 6.9%. So I would say about these trends that are important and that suggest that things are still moving for the better. What is good is that the Croatian National Bank has changed the direction of action or estimated that it is more important to limit foreign borrowing than to limit credit, credit growth. And it was a trend in 2004. In this way, this government debt has also come into a reverse situation to turn to the domestic financial market and to reduce that part of foreign borrowing, and I think it's good. Similarly, when it comes to loans, it is good that the participation of citizens in lending is reduced and that the participation of businesses or economies has increased from 5.1% to 8% and that is the same good. And this is also mentioned today in the debate that the tasks of the Croatian National Bank are also monitoring the economy and that in some ways all these measures encourage business banks to invest as much as possible in the economy. Normally, personal consumption cannot be prohibited. She's around the world. And when you look at the budget's participation in gross national income, it's 54% high, but one Austria has 52%. The goal would be to get us here for 30 percent. That would be good, but there's still a long way to go to do that. What I mean is most important and most important and what the Croatian National Bank shows tenacity and it needs to be congratulated on, and this is also the basic task of preserving the course of domestic currency. And I would recommend that he resist all pressures of those, I would say call an expert recommending reprogrammed inflation. I'm a doctor, so I'll compare it to the bleeding. When it comes to bleeding, then it has to be achieved that those electrocytes get from the cell to the cell as quickly as possible, and it increases, and the circulation is accelerated, so to speak. That's how inflation works. The money's slaughter is speeding up. Then, to make up for it, the money is printed, so there's another illusion that something's good. However, something else that is important is forgotten, as long as the hole where the bleeding is stopped, or the source of the bleeding, all measures are short - lived and death eventually occurs. In this case, the death of the economy and the collapse of the state. Many have fallen so far and I would recommend that this basic task of keeping currency exchange rates continue as successfully as you have done so far. And what I would like to say is what he opened with his debate with counterpart Mato Arlovic, which is what I think is a key issue for Croatia's future and all mechanisms of the National Bank must be focused on stimulating investment in the economy. There are mechanisms, there are measures, you can do it, and I believe that the years ahead of us are going to point you at that part to see and that these interests that are mentioned several times in Europe and in the world are 2%, why we have to have 10%. So you can use various of your instruments, and you're actually in charge of controlling the work of banks that are unfortunately owned and all of our batteries are being pulled out, to turn it around and to protect both citizens, but so is the state. It was in the debate today, and also in this relationship with the International Monetary Fund, because it is paradoxical that the National Bank cannot lend credit to its own state, but it must be acrobatics through business banks, borrowing out. These are certain relationships, because the IMF has already been said, it is making sure that we are able to repay our debts and that is his primary task and all the measures it imposes are in this direction, but we need to find mechanisms to oppose it and enable the state to invest from its own resources and in the coverage of some countries, and primarily to invest them in development. I think the National Bank's foreign reserve is too high, you've cut them down, it's good, and that's how you put 3.8 billion kuna in circulation last 2004. I say there are mechanisms to fix the situation and I believe it will be in the next period. I support this report with all that they have indicated, and I think you'll consider it, so next year these indicators will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40337	Thank you very much. We're still going to hear the debate of the esteemed representative of the Jelkovec government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40338	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. In 2004, a growth rate of 3.8% of the social gross product was recorded in Croatia. This is slightly slower economic growth compared to 2003, but at the same time the external imbalance was reduced, while inflation remained at a relatively low or acceptable level. In December 2004, it reached an annual level of 2.3%. In 2004, measures by the central bank aimed at limiting foreign borrowing and actively supporting foreign debt swaps with domestic sources. The focus of action has therefore been changed by limiting credit growth to restricting foreign borrowing. With foreign exchange interventions from the business banks, the CNB bought 510.2m euros and thus created 3.8 billion kunas of primary money. These interventions were the main channel for creating liquidity. At the same time, the central bank sold 94.7m euros worth of foreign currency to the Ministry of Finance and thus withdrew 741.7m kuna from circulation. These transactions with the state were taken to facilitate the payment of government debt and with the aim of achieving what we have already said, foreign debt swaps from domestic sources. In November 2004, the rate of mandatory reserves was reduced from 19% to 18% and thus the banks were freed of funds. The same funds were then borrowed from the state by issuing bonds to buy foreign exchanges to pay off the debt. Also in February 2005 The CNB reduced the minimum necessary foreign liquidity rate from 35 per cent to 32 per cent, thus relieving banks of foreign exchange assets and allowing them to borrow foreign credits from the state which thus paid off its foreign currency liabilities. By introducing a border reserve to increase foreign obligations since July 2004. 24% a since February 2005. 30% of the CNB has accumulated the use of foreign sources of funding. The central bank's measures aimed at decommiting foreign bank borrowing and directing the part of government debt from foreign to domestic markets, as well as reducing the overall budget deficit have contributed to the slowdown of foreign debt growth. At the end of 2004, the total foreign debt of the economy totalled 22.7 billion euros, which is 14.5% higher than in 2003. However, this is a rate which is more than half the rate recorded in 2003 compared to 2002. She was 31.6% then. Observed of the growth of debt by sectors, the fastest growth in 2004 was recorded in bank borrowing. The debt of the other domestic sectors grew at a rate of 18.9% while foreign debt grew at a much lower rate than 9.6%. Plasma banks grew at 14% in 2004 as well as in the previous period. Credits to the population grew faster than loans to businesses. But here tends to be something more favourable, since the gap between these two rates is significantly reduced compared to 2003. Let us remind ourselves that in 2003 the increase in credit to the population was 27.7% and only 5.1% for businesses. As has already been said many times, the rate of growth of the social gross product last year was 3.8% and such growth is due to some reduced investment especially after the completion of the infrastructure works on the Zagreb-Split highway. On the other hand, for the first time since 2000, exports of goods and services have made a positive contribution to the growth of gross social product throughout the year and has partially compensated for the reduced contribution of gross social product growth investments. At the level of 2004, exports soared faster than imports. Export growth was 18.5% while import growth was 6.2%. The largest share in the increase in exports was exports of ships and oil derivatives. Import growth continued to slow down as exports began to grow faster in the second part of 2004 after a short-term slowdown in the second quarter. Such more favourable movements in international exchange have contributed to the mitigation of external imbalances. The coverage of the goods imports by export reached 50% in 2004 and this is the level of trade balance or imbalance last recorded in 2001. At the end of my presentation, I would like to commend this report because it gives us much more and much wider macroeconomic information that will be useful for a number of other topics and discussions in this assembly. I think it should be noted that the Croatian National Bank has contributed to the achievement of those objectives which have already been said restricting the ino of duties, replacing the debt to domestic sources, and therefore, of course, I will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40339	Thank you very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would end the debate. Resume at 9.30 tomorrow. We have, the first is the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang, and then the respected representative Nevenka Majdenić and the five-minute debate on behalf of the HNS Club PGS, the respected representative of Jakša Marasović and the final review of the deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank. And then we move on to the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Radio-Television, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian PGS and from the same club of the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. And if we still arrive before the vote Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency on the state, achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia, report on the work of the Council on the regulation of energy activities on observations that are important for the development of the energy market and public services in 2004. On this set of laws relating to local and regional self-government and elections, we expect the coming from the government of the same appropriate set of laws, and we will see whether we will implement this debate unitedly on the whole set of laws and on Tuesday we will begin the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the state budget. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue the session and debate on the annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004. The word has a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40341	Thank you very much. Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honored empty benches. It is my special honor to say a few words about the Croatian National Bank Report which should certainly be accepted and I will personally vote for it, because in the past year, the Croatian National Bank has made a major contribution to the stability of the currency, and has made a major contribution to the reduction of bank duties abroad, banks owned by the countries of the European Union. In the analytical section when it comes to the economy, the Croatian National Bank Report highlights two negative trends that need to be talked about. First, the decline in economic growth and the second drop in investment in Croatia. Both are taking place in the context of economic developments in the European Union, and therefore the data that are in the report show that it is nice to read, that the European Union is economically viewed in recession, and in this context it is necessary to look at developments in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia cannot take bigger steps forward, while its biggest export partner, also the largest investor, the European Union, enters the recession. The comparisons between the euro area countries and the Republic of Croatia show that the indicators of the Republic of Croatia are wherever and where better than would be expected because of the crisis. For example. The gross social product in the euro zone has increased only 2%. In the new Member States between 4 and 5% and in Croatia 3.8%, although there is no European Union security cap, as the new member states have said. Unemployment in European Union countries has not been reduced. In fact, it is 9% in some countries such as Slovakia, Poland is 19% while in Croatia it has been reduced in the past year by 1,1% or 19,925 less than in 2003, plus neutralising the unemployment of all newly arrived schools and universities. So, a total of about 56,000 jobs were opened. As regards the lack of a general state and here Croatia stands well compared to the euro area countries under the circumstances I have said because the lack of a general state in euro area countries is, in any case, greater than in Croatia. So when we talk about the lack of the general government in the 2% euro zone, we need to know that some countries such as Greece and others have over 5%. In other words, Croatian 3.8% means a lot, good success and a good result, more than we know that we had 6.9% a year before. So, the government's huge efforts to reduce the general government's deficit from 6.9% to 4.8% have yielded fruit. Croatia's public debt 82% of gross national income is significantly lower than some euro area countries. This was already said yesterday by Greece and Italy at 100%, but in the Croatian National Bank report we read a very good finding, which is that the annual rate of foreign debt growth is twice as low as in 2004 but also in 2003, which is also a good indicator. Finally, it should be said that this year's movements, statistically speaking, do not coincide with the forecasts of disaster seekers, because, for example, in May, the unemployed are less than 11 927 than in April, and industrial production is 8.2% higher in May than in April. So, against the prognosis of the disaster-storage Croatian euro area button, which I think is positive in the phase of our membership, to come under that security cap that will attract foreign capital. However, in this report a number of data which are very positive for banks owned by the European Union can also be read, and whether they are positive for the host country. Namely, banks in the Republic of Croatia are owned by the European Union 91.6% and that percentage is growing, while the share of domestic banks has been falling for years and is now at 5.6% and 3.1%, respectively, owned by the Croatian state, and this trend continues, the trend of reducing the share of domestic banks in the total banking system. Therefore, the overall success of banking that ended the year with 3 billion and 600 million kuna profits should be looked at in a slightly different light. In fact, this profit of banks, as well as other capital outflows, is actually one form of Croatia's investment in the European Union, so we can say that there is a higher amount of European Union investment, that the higher amount of Croatia's investment in the European Union is in the European Union than the other. Here's the data. Growth in foreign deposits last year is 7.5%, which is three times as many as one year earlier. An increase in foreign exchange savings of 5.7 billion or a total of 912 billion kuna. The increase in kuna deposits is 35.7%, banks plus 14%. That's terrible data, terrible numbers. Credits to the population are 18.7% higher, but only 8% of businesses. So, the European Union's countries bought our banks that we've resuscitated our money to a difference of interest, loaning our citizens more and more, investing in our businesses less and less, capital outflows through the purchase of these loans to foreign goods increasingly and more. Over the past year, citizens totalled 141 billion kuna loans. Plasma banks are financed by funds from abroad, an increase in bank debt that is now about a third of the total government debt. The foreign debt of banks has been increased by double from 3.8 to 7.6 billion kuna. Data the Croatian National Bank must put first and turn on the red light. The central government's demands, unfortunately, have also been increased by 7.2 billion kuna. But what is the biggest outflow of Croatian capital are the loans of these European banks, banks owned by our citizens. Our citizens pay a fine on credit instead of interest. Namely, interest on our citizens range between 7.5 and 8.9%, which is 4 to 5 times the interest these banks pay for their duties abroad. What we can say very incorrectly is that our citizens, apart from such high interest, must tie their credit to the foreign exchange clause. That's another way of extracting capital. The third way is that they must naturally give their assets under mortgage. And the fourth way specific only for banks in Croatia that our citizens must also pay for life insurance. What does that mean? In addition to all the insurance that citizens have to pay, they still have to pay life insurance worth 50 to 100% of the amount of credit. There is no such thing in any country in Europe, there is no such thing in the countries of America, because if life insurance is paid on credit, then the mortgage is certainly deleted. We still have the mortgage. Therefore, it is not surprising to see the extraordinary business of banks that have generated 3 billion kunas of profits. If we could turn that capital outflow into miles of highways, then in five years with that money, we could build a road from Bosilev to Dugopol. Just for comparison to see the direction of the money circulation. The amount of outflow due to crediting external consumption instead of domestic production is practically impossible to calculate. And it can finally be concluded from this that I initially established the thesis, Croatia invested in the European Union 4 billion kuna last year, significantly more than the European Union invested in Croatia. And now, after this diagnosis, therapy should be followed. In other words, Croatia can bite off part of its own cake that flows across foreign banks outside. Only by establishing a strong Croatian bank that will have two tasks. It is the first to lend loans to Croatian citizens under the same conditions as the citizens of the European Union and, of course, the second to invest in production, not only in import and external consumption loans. From this report, the bank is given this kind of information, and even if it draws a conclusion like this, then this report will really be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40342	Thank you very much. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40343	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian National Bank as a central banking institution has a fundamental objective of maintaining low inflation but also takes measures to support monetary stability and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, we must consider this report as a set of effects of measures taken by the Croatian National Bank and their impact on the economic indicators of state policy and economic policy as a whole. In 2003, what we discussed a year ago, the objective of the Croatian National Bank was to slow down the expansion of the credit. The measures taken by the Croatian National Bank for this reduction had no major impact. In 2003 it ended with a high foreign debt, a major deficit in the current balance of payments account and fiscal deficit, and in 2004 the Government and the Croatian National Bank made a turn in monetary and economic policy to reduce Croatia's external vulnerability to any major disturbances. In this direction, measures by the central bank in 2004 were primarily aimed at limiting foreign borrowing. In January 2004, measures by the central bank related to the limitation of credit growth, which were adopted in January 2003, ceased. However, the central bank continued to prescribe to banks a minimum level of foreign currency liquidity, i.e. liquid foreign claims had to be at least 35% of foreign exchange liabilities daily. A particularly important instrument of monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank introduced in July 2004, is the border reserve. It accounted for an increase in foreign liabilities of business banks and stands out at the expense of banks at the Croatian National Bank without the right to compensation at the prescribed rate in June 2004 at 24%. In February 2005, the border reserve increased to 30%. What was meant by the instrument? The instrument collects foreign sources of funding and reduces the space for business banks to borrow abroad in order to credit the domestic sector. These and other measures of monetary policy instruments reflected the achievement of economic indicators in the economy, but also the achievement of the fundamental objective, which is to limit foreign debt. The foreign debt in 2004 was 82% of gross domestic product, which remains high ino duty, but the dynamics of the increase in debt over the last year have been tempered by monetary and fiscal policy measures compared to 2003, which means that the debt has been placed under control. Therefore, foreign debt growth was 14.5% and was half as much as recorded in 2003 when it was 31.6%. At the same time, good liquidity on the financial market has been retained. Detimulating the ino of debt and directing a certain part of the government's debt from a foreign market to a domestic market, as well as reducing the overall budget deficit, have contributed to a slowdown in foreign debt growth. For the first time, the country was third in its total ino debt of 31.9%. In the first place remained the domestic sector and direct investment with 34.4% and on the second bank with 33.7%. But what is also important is that all sectors, both states and banks and businesses, pay back the debt neatly. For the first time since 2000, net exports of goods have contributed to the growth of gross domestic product by 0.5%, thus reducing the impact of reducing investment on the growth of gross domestic product. Export growth was 18.5% and imports were 6.2%. Export sales coverage reached 50% in 2004 and this level of trade imbalance was last recorded in 2001. In 2004 the current transaction balance deficit was 1.28 billion euros and 481m euros lower than in 2003. The share of current account deficits in the gross domestic product of 4.6% was significantly reduced compared to the same period in 2003 when it was 6.95%. The decline in deficits in 2004 was affected by developments in the income account whose deficit was reduced by $457m over the observed period. In addition, a positive contribution to reducing current transaction deficits has also come from reducing the stock deficit by 250m euros. The annual inflation rate was 2.1%, mainly due to the rise in energy and oil prices in the world market and that the Central Bank did not intervene by maintaining the stability of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro and the dollar and inflationary effects of the increase in oil prices would be far higher. During 2004, the average exchange rate per euro was 0.9% and 7.9% for the US dollar. In this way, inflation in Croatia was mostly at the same level as in other countries that are the main trading partners of Croatia. The nominal appreciation limited the impact of imported inflation during 2004. What I would also like to point out, which means one security and trust both in the Croatian state and the government, and indirectly in the Croatian National Bank, is the capital market. It achieved such an unremembered success in the relatively short history of the Croatian market in 2004. Stock turnover on both stock exchanges is almost doubled compared to the previous year. The number of transactions increased by almost 50% while stock indices began to grow sharply. Only at the end of 2004 were they at the highest levels until then. The Crobeks Zagreb Bank Index grew by 32.1% and the Varazdin Stock Exchange Index increased by as much as 127.20%. Bond sales increased by 70% compared to 2003. We could thus explain other economic indicators of economic development in 2004 and analyse the impact of monetary and overall state policy measures. However, as far as state policy is concerned, in 2004, it was the first year of work of the new government and that much of the policy drawn cannot be expected in the first year. It is important that positive developments are already seen, that there are strong indications that the basic objectives will be achieved. The Croatian National Bank as a central monetary institution must continue to intervene in a timely manner with monetary policy measures in order to allow the government and country's objectives as a whole to be achieved. And finally I propose, i.e. I accept the 2004 Croatian National Bank Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40344	Thank you very much. We've got a couple of minutes of debates on behalf of the clubs. First, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic, the HNS-PGS Representatives Club. He's giving up, thank you very much. Second, IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40345	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the CNB. Well, given all these political recommendations that were heard yesterday, today, between the government and the opposition, which is quite logical, it is difficult for me to say justifying those public polemics that were heard in the 5th, 6th month between the government and the Croatian National Bank. It was even supposed to be the central part of this report, but we missed him. The government, on the other hand, was called the Croatian National Bank. It is true that the Croatian National Bank allowed enormous borrowing during 2002, 2003. It is also true that HDZ's government continued to foster external debt, indirectly now through banks in the same dynamics as it did by 2003. Recognising that the government has now begun to borrow on the domestic, not foreign money market, but it is undeniable that external debt is being controlled more or more. Clearly, it is difficult to control it if it does not want to promote civil dissatisfaction, because if that happens it would then be a sure sign of the authorities leaving the post in opposition. In one word, we've learned to spend more in the last 10 years than we can earn. Our standard is beyond our ability, our consumption beyond the ability of the household. Now he's offered to pay off his long pension. It's a constitutional obligation, it should be accepted, only I want to, and so on the trail of Mr. Hebrang's discussion to say, gentlemen, don't sell the Postanska Banka, Croatia Banka at any price or at the cost of paying off the debt to the pensioners. It better be in three years, and we're keeping those two banking institutions as our own. But let's just let it go. The Croatian National Bank must be autonomous, however, it is even more important to hold a course, that citizens, and that most of them, not to say, die under the burden of interest, or even more. I repeat, foreign debt is 80%. To join the EU, it should be 60%. The state is in charge of Croatia, but also foreign-owned banks to serve Croatia, are in charge of their queens. The governor, we now see, has increased the reserve to 40%, which will say that the bank deposits 40 euros to 100 euros. The limit of inviolability for banks ranges between 50% and 55% and there is a key reason why Croatia needs the EU. These are investments and it is clear, the euro, it is the Monetary Union because in the long term Croatia will accumulate its problems more and more, rather than reduce. It's logical to pursue an ever-increasing standard, which requires more and more recent goods. The fact is that Croatia too does not produce, that they are imported, and that means that external debt is increasing more and more. Mr. Hebrang noticed well. I'm totally behind his discussion. Croatia's investment in the European Union is bigger than the other way around and it goes through banks. And as it's called, we should say that, too. It's the gentlemen of neocolonalism, and that should have been thought of in 1999 when it went to the sale of the Bank of Commerce. And so I appeal once again, let's not sell Croatia's insurance, let's not sell Croatia's bank, let's not sell gentlemen of the Post Office. 3.6 billion kuna was made for banks in 2004. Let's put these two banks together into a serious state bank, try to direct the government's deposits, local self-government towards these state-owned investments. With external debt, it's a little comforting that today the state is in the last place. It's over the banks, it's over the business. The state owes 7.2 billion euros or 31.9%, banks 7.7 billion euros or 33.7%, businesses 34.3% or 7.8 billion. It is clear that it is not yet time to panic because on page 90, the CNB is talking about the liquidity of international payments. They say it's still the big one, but there's a problem here. At the end of 2004, the government debt was $98.6 billion, 48% of GDP for 2004 plus €13.2 billion in guarantees, which is Mr. 111.8 billion in kuna or 54.1% of GDP. In 2004, the government debt increased by $12.5 billion but in the first 3 months, the trend continued. This report should be clearly accepted, guaranteeing the independence of the Croatian National Bank, and obliging the Government to simply try to strengthen the positions of these remaining 5% banking, under quotes, markets owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40346	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40347	Thank you, Mr. President. Well Mr Cain said today something about external debt or that the state is having a hard time controlling external debt which is really not true and it seems to me that we have really read two different reports from the Croatian National Bank for this year. The rate of foreign debt growth is from 31.6% in 2003 to 14.5% in 2004 and cannot be said that the state does not lead, or the government does not take care of foreign debt, with this data, that the foreign debt is put under real control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40348	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40349	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Croatian National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! The Croatian Democratic Community Club will, of course, support this report because it shows that the Croatian National Bank has made a great effort to preserve the stability of the course, that it has made a great effort to reduce foreign banks' debt, in other words the total debt of the state. The question whether she reacted late with an increase in deposits or not is a matter of discussion for experts and the smaller conflicts between the Government and the Croatian National Bank are in the direction of the common interest of the state and this is a reduction of the common debt, so I would not attach any great importance to it. The Croatian National Bank functioned independently of the government and that is what is expected. From this report, however, we see two so little dark prognostic results, which is that economic growth in Croatia is falling and investment is falling. It matches a very pessimistic report that we heard from the National Competitiveness Council the other day. I think that these results should certainly be compared to what is happening in our biggest external partner economically, and that is the European Union. While the European Union is in recession, Croatia can't take big steps forward, it is quite clear. What is happening in the European Union? Well, compared to the euro zone, Croatia had all economic indicators better than significantly better last year. For example, gross national income in the euro zone is 2% increase, in Croatia 3.8%. Even in the new members of the European Union, it has not increased more than 5%. The unemployment of the European Union is stagnating. In Croatia, 19 thousand 925 unemployed were reduced by 1.1% and 19 thousand, respectively, plus compensation of 40,000 new arrivals at the Ministry of Employment from schools and colleges which are also employed, which is 60,000 jobs. For catastrophics, note that in May of this year, unemployment was reduced at the month level by 3.7%, which means that less than 11 thousand and 927 were unemployed. Also, industrial production in Croatia is above the European Union level and above the level of newly arrived ten members of the European Union where the average of industrial production was plus 15% and in Croatia plus 3.5%. So three times the increase in industrial production. And again for the catastrophic data. In May this year, industrial production increased by 8.5% in Croatia compared to April. So, not only should we go the black prognostic pathway but objectively, and that can only be seen if we also see events in the European Union. The banking sector. I spoke in an individual debate, Mr. Cain said now. This is the way of the Croatian capital drain. In this report, it is clear that 3 billion kunas were poured out abroad through banks owned by, of course, European Union countries. Also, the second time capital outflow is giving and the constant increase in credit to citizens, the increase in crediting of citizens is 18.7% and investment in the economy is only 8.2%. So the trend in capital outflows through foreign-owned banks is growing in geometric progress every year. What does that mean? This means that last year we invested in the European Union more than 4 billion kunas or translated into the debt of our pensioners that these banks are mostly owned by the rest of the Croatian states we would only repay debt to our pensioners in two years without the burden of the state budget. And as I mentioned, in five years we could build a road, a highway full of profile between Bosilev and Split without external duty. So, what's up with us? To imagine how the Croatian Government can, of course, in cooperation with the Croatian National Bank, prevent these two large-scale spills of Croatian capital into the European Union and turn it to our advantage. Only by establishing a strong bank or strengthening existing Croatian banks that would give Croatian citizens the same conditions of credit as those in the European zone, with a reduction in the lending of consumption and more credits aimed at production. Of course, this is only possible if we achieve a strong Croatian bank that would compete with existing European banks and that would shift and change the direction of capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40350	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40351	Mr. President, Mr. Hebrang said approximately that the recession in the European Union has direct implications for our economy, i.e. the decline in GDP, or the trend in GDP growth, and the other indicators given in this material. You know, if that were the case, then ten European countries that entered the European Union last year would have similar results. But it's not like that. So we can't get away with it, our efficiency and our ignorance that someone else is guilty, especially Europe. We are inefficient, we do not allow investment for those who want to invest in this country and that is the problem, the problem of red tape, ineffectiveness and ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40352	Thank you. And final review of Deputy Governor of the National Bank Boris Vujcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40353	President of the Parliament, honourable MPs! I thank you for your discussions and suggestions over these two days, and I'd just like to take a final look at a few things. A lot of things have been said but perhaps on two or three topics that have gone through more discussions and discussions. One is the independence of the Central Bank, which was mentioned yesterday, and I thank the MPs who have already touched and supported the independence of the Central Bank. I would just say that it stems simply from the Law on the Croatian National Bank which this Parliament has brought. And also from international practice and experience. Independence is necessary in order for the Central Bank to successfully achieve its core objectives, which is primarily maintaining price stability, means financial stability and, in fact, macroeconomic stability and financial stability in the event that it is the Central Bank's task, in Croatia it is so. I would also like to say that independence is as important as de facto as de jure. We have countries where it exists de jure but de facto there are problems. I can say that it is very good that in Croatia during the past and during this government and during the past and this composition of the Parliament, this independence of the Croatian National Bank is supported and de facto and this allows us to meet our goals in the right way or to work in the way that the Central Bank should work. When we enter the European Union, we will have to re-change the Law on the Croatian National Bank, so that we will have to push it through this Parliament once again and in essence strengthen independence because the European Union has essentially an object to the current law that it is not yet at the level of the European Union's standards. And the only two countries in Europe at this time that do not have the standard dependence of the central bank at the level of the one who has Croatia are the two that are easter than us and which we usually do not like to compare with and better not to compare. However, independence must not mean irresponsibility and independence must not mean incompetence. In essence, the central bank's independence exists precisely to ensure both responsibility and expertise. If responsibility and expertise are not the results of independence, then it has not achieved its objective. I hope that, and it is up to you to assess whether we are responsible for the Croatian Parliament that the independence of the Croatian National Bank has succeeded in achieving both of these goals. Secondly, the second part of the question I would like to mention here that it was mentioned that the Croatian National Bank may not be working enough to protect consumers yesterday. The Croatian National Bank, its task is not consumer protection. There is a Consumer Protection Act and there are agencies dealing with consumer protection, but that does not mean that we are not doing what we think we should do to protect Croatian consumers in relations with banks. The best example of this is that we have taken up and introduced a calculation of the effective interest rate that allows Croatian citizens to know transparently how much the bank will pay them when they go into it. We used to have a situation where the bank told you that your interest rate was one, and you basically effectively paid a much higher interest rate. And the aim of this measure was to protect Croatian citizens from being manipulated by banks and, well, to know very clearly the price of the loans they pay. Right now, I can announce this even though we have not yet taken that measure, we are now working on the extent to which we will also go to the bank to borrow loans which, as you know, have become more indexed not only in EURO but in the Swiss franc. If you go for car credit or mortgages, more and more are in Swiss francs that will explain the risks they take by taking credit indexed in the Swiss franc. Because they take a course risk that they may not be aware of. We also solve a number of complaints by citizens in case they are not legal. If these are legal disputes, then they are competent to settle courts and the Croatian National Bank simply has no role there. Another set of questions was yesterday. It has been said that this report is good but can the Croatian National Bank do anything else to help the government boost growth? I would say that the best way for the Croatian National Bank to act is to encourage or help the government to grow by maintaining macroeconomic stability. Because without macroeconomic stability, exchange rates in Croatia definitely do not grow. We have experience not only in Croatia but abroad, but we do not have to look abroad. We can see what's been going on here. If we just remember what happened in the '80s, we'll all remember that the episodes of inflation, hyperinflation, depression, devaluation led to decades of lost growth when the growth rate was 0%. So it's certainly not good for growth. If it were good for growth, not only would they do it to me, but someone else would probably remember in the world that it was good and would do it. But nobody does that and all the central banks in the mandate are given to maintain price and rate stability precisely because r is the best thing to do to stimulate growth. In addition, the Croatian National Bank can, of course, maintain financial stability. But beyond that, there is not much he can do. In some ways monetary policy is, often described as a rope. You can tighten it, but you can't push. Pushing ropes doesn't accomplish anything. We simply don't have the ability to run structural policies, restructure businesses, conduct privatisation, reform of public administration, health system, pension system. Create favourable investment climates, flexibility on the labour market. So these are all things in, judicial reform, these are all things that ultimately produce some kind of long-term growth rate. The mix of monetary and fiscal policy is just one component of it. This second series of structural policies is important and should be implemented on a continuous basis in order to achieve growth rates in the long term. What we are doing is maintaining financial stability, however, in itself, it is not quite easy and it is not completely unequivocal. Financial stability is sometimes in conflict with financial efficiency. Take, for example, the minimum reserve rate in Croatia is 18% at the moment. We've cut it from 24% to 18%. We know that it would increase the efficiency of the intermediation of the financial system if the minimum reserve rate were to be reduced by 2% tomorrow as much as in the European Monetary Union. Then it'd be cheaper loans right away. So the capital price for banks would be lower right away. However, we also know that this would be in conflict with another objective of financial stability. Disbanding the minimum reserve rate to that level would endanger the financial stability of the system simply because it could no longer maintain the stability of the course, and if there is a instability of the course in Croatia, then we know that everything is breaking down. So every day you have to weigh what you do to improve efficiency? What do you do to maintain the stability of the banking system? As regards the restrictions on external borrowing, the Croatian National Bank began its first warning in 2003, and we first took steps to prevent the growth of external borrowing. They were limited in 2003. They had an effect but, of course, it is impossible only by measures, especially when such a strong momentum of foreign debt growth as it was then only by monetary policy measures to stop it. Other measures are also needed primarily for fiscal policy. At this point, I think we're on track to stabilise the external debt at approximately the end of last year. We didn't go around the corner what they'd say. As far as we're concerned, we're not sure about that. We must keep an eye on this and not just monetary policy again, but the overall economic policy, however, we are on the right track. Because we managed to significantly slow it down, and at the end of the 4th month, the external debt relative to the projected gross social product at the end of this year was about 78% of the gross social product. So we still have about 4% towards the end of the year to go, but we can say that he's about 5% to say that he's approximately stabilized. And I hope we do. It has been mentioned that we have already crossed some kind of "mastric" criterion of 60% of the debt, however 80% of the external debt is not in line with, with "mastric" criteria. The "mastrictic" criterion refers to public debt. So public debt of 60% and Croatia is currently below the level of public debt of 60% and public debt is at 53.54%. So what we also have to do in the long run is not to let public debt go above 60%. But we're still below that limit. We didn't cross it. So no, we don't have a problem here, but it's important to keep it that way until we join the European Union or it'll be hard to come back from over 60% below because it practically means having a fiscal surplus. And the fiscal surplus, you know how difficult it is to reduce the fiscal deficit and let alone learn into a fiscal surplus. As far as banks and bank policies are concerned, it has been mentioned several times. The credit policy of banks is such that since 2001, 2002, or 2000, we have already come to a situation where stronger, significantly stronger loans to the population than businesses. However, it is not only in Croatia. This is the case in all Central Eastern European countries. Simply, the population sector has been far less burdened with debt throughout Central and Eastern Europe than is the case in Western Europe. Of course, the banks saw that, they saw that the percentage of non-reimbursement by the population was far lower than businesses. So their risk is much lower, their interest margin is significantly higher, because the population pays significantly more interest rates than businesses, and normally they started lending to the sector. However, we can see that this trend is also changing. In 2003, the credit growth rate for businesses is 5.1% of the population is 27.7%. In 2004, the rate of credit growth for businesses increased to 8% of the population to 19% so that in the first five months of this year, 9% of loans to businesses would have about a retention of credit growth in the population at last year's level. So, more and more credit goes back to businesses. Why is that? Well, one of the reasons is for certain that demand for the population cannot be as high as it has been for the past four years. People buy one apartment, buy one car or two cars, but don't buy three cars, don't buy 3 televisions or 3 apartments or land. What banks see as this demand declines, and this demand among other things declines because already in Croatia, demand for banks from the population is twice as high if we look at the state of credit to the population as a percentage of gross social product in Croatia than the rest of the Central Eastern European countries. At this point, at the end of 2004, that share was 33% of gross social product, while other countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and between 10% and 15% of gross social product. So, the Croatian population has taken much more credit from banks than is the case in these other countries. If we are comparing ourselves with the countries of the European Monetary Union, then this is still significant because in 2004, the share of the population's loans in the European Union's gross social product was 54 and a half percent. So, you can say well, that's not the problem. We still have time to go towards such a burden on the population with loans. However, if we look at some countries, already at the moment, there is a greater share of the population's loans in the gross social product in Croatia than in Italy or Portugal. So this has already grown more than some countries of the monetary union. What calms us down if we watch how much the average Croatian spending on a monthly loan payment is that we are in a situation where in Croatia we have this level of something more than 7% while in the Monetary Union it is 10%. But again, if we look at the trend, the trend is worrying, because that share of income spent on paying off the monthly loan has increased from 3.6 to over 7 percent. So he doubled in the last four years. Obviously, these trends cannot continue to rise at that pace. It is obvious that banks at this point need to focus on businesses, because this market is still slowing down. The second part, which is important, means the part that probably received the least funding in Croatia and which is the real problem not only in Croatia, which is the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. Big businesses are easily credited. It's not a problem for them. Pliva, Podravka if I can't get the funds here cheaply will get them abroad without any problem. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a problem. They cannot go directly to the external market, and often they cannot get loans under favourable conditions in Croatia. Why is that? Because the rate of di photo means not returning the credit of small and medium-sized enterprises to the highest. However, more and more banks have now begun to turn to them. Because if you don't have big businesses, if the population disappears, you're left with small and medium-sized enterprises. Because the Croatian economy is a small and medium-sized economy. We have very few large companies. We are a small country, and small countries have small and medium-sized enterprises and ultimately banks have to reroute towards them. Is there anything the Central Bank can do? There were suggestions to limit, say, the growth of credit to the population to go towards businesses. But these are things that have been tried abroad, they just don't work. For example, to limit credit growth to banks and say you can lend to businesses. What's going on? The companies then lend credit to the company, let's say the car dealer who then credits the final customer and will again find the way to end the loan where the demand is. He always finds money. He's like water. He finds a hole and always ends up where demand exists. You can try to protect it, but you will always find ways to bypass it and while such measures are in principle not effective. Here's about what I wanted to say, and that's where I'd end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-07-07-0.u40354	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 ... Who should I calm down, Mr. President of the Club? ..... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This belongs to your area. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I'm putting it to the vote. The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I note that the conclusion that adopted the Annual Report of the CNB for 2004 was accepted by 107 votes for and 2 abstentions.
