ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38728	Dear Mr. President, let me take this opportunity, here we are approaching the end of this 14th session and it is clear that we will not discuss any laws that have long been in the meetings of this Croatian Parliament, I am thinking primarily of road traffic safety laws that have been handed over in the parliamentary procedure six months ago. I believe that Articles 138 and 144 have been injured, so I believe that these laws must have been discussed both in the working bodies and in the plenary session of the Parliament, so I ask you to prepare for the next session to have these laws processed at least in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38729	This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but from you colleagues and you could have come forward and suggested something about these bill proposals, but you didn't report any damage to the Rules of Procedure. No harm done to the Rules of Procedure. We didn't even start the session, and you... It's one proposal, one initiative, but don't go that way, you can suggest it another way. The government submitted a proposal for an annual calculation of the State budget for 2004. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minority. I ask State Secretary Martin Dalic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38730	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs good morning and allow me a few introductory remarks regarding fiscal policy in 2004 and the reckoning itself, the annual calculation of the state budget. The fiscal policy in 2004 was in the role of realising the government's fundamental economic objective, which is to issue an extremely rapid growth of external debt. As is known during 2003, the level of external debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 15.5% of gross domestic product or 4.8 billion euros, respectively, from 62.2% of gross domestic product in early 2003 to 77% in late 2003. Ignoring this problem or possibly continuing to follow the same trend could have resulted in disturbances in the stable functioning of the financial system and economy as a whole. The fiscal policy was therefore designed in 2004 to result in a slowdown in the rate of foreign debt growth, stabilising its level, as measured by the share of gross domestic product while achieving the government's objectives in the area of investment and social policy. As a result of this positioning of fiscal policy, a major step has been achieved during 2004 in the realization of this macroeconomic objective. In 2004, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia increased only 4.5% of gross domestic product compared to 15.5 growth during 2003, while the balance of payments deficit was reduced from 6.8% of gross domestic product to 4.7 in 2004. The main features of fiscal policy that enabled this result in 2004 and which will result in further stabilisation of its level in 2005 are: the consolidation of public finances, the increase of the transparency of state operations and the reduction of the government budget deficits as well as the deficits of all other parts of the public sector. The government budget deficit in 2004 was reduced from 3.8% of GDP in 2003 to 2.9 in 2004 and the total public sector deficit was reduced from 6.3% of gross domestic product in 2003 to 4.9% in 2004. The second pillar of fiscal policy in 2004 is to direct the government's borrowing to the domestic market. By focusing government debt on the domestic market, the public debt structure for the benefit of the domestic component is changed. In a situation where a significant part of the public debt is still foreign public debt, when the liquidity of the financial system is satisfactory, and the need and demand for high-quality state paper is high, the greater presence of the state in the domestic capital market has enabled, among other things, its development as well as the increase in its liquidity. It is clear, however, that the real contribution of fiscal policy towards achieving the fundamental macroeconomic objective and reducing the external debt of the state comes from reducing deficits, both the state budget and all parts of the public sector. Indeed, the reduction of public sector deficits is also important because it also increases the sustainability of public finances in terms of future debt service capacity. Accordingly, during 2004, the primary deficit, i.e. The deficit obtained when interest is excluded from the total deficit, i.e. increased national savings, i.e. The current excess is increased. The total surplus of the state budget, i.e. the total public sector, increased from 1% of gross domestic product in 2003 to 2.1% in 2004. This means that in 2004, the public sector saved about 2.1% of gross domestic product or slightly more than 4 billion kuna from current incomes of tax and non-taxables and invested those funds in investment investments. The effort to reduce deficits in 2004 is more important because, while reducing deficits, the transparency of state operations is increased and part of the operations that previously took place outside of it is included in the budget. Part of investment expenditure as well as part of subsidies, more specifically subsidies to Croatian railways. In addition to the transparency of state operations, this enabled the smooth functioning of HZ and created space for the company to be fully committed to restructuring and financial consolidation tasks. As a result in 2004, the total revenues of the state budget amounted to €80.7 billion, which is 7.7% more than in 2003. Total operating expenditure in 2004 amounted to 83.1 billion kuna, which is 7.7% higher than in 2003, with employee expenditure increased compared to 2003. 3%, material expenditures 2%, financial expenditures, or interest, were made in the amount of $4.4 billion, which is 13.4% more than in 2003. The subsidies rose by a billion and 248 million kuna in 2003 primarily due to the increase in subsidies to Croatian railways. Citizens' and households' fees amounted to €45.2 billion in 2004, with the largest singles aimed at pensions and pension incomes of €25.4 billion, defenders' pensions of €2.7 billion, defence attorneys' care of the 1.3 billion kuna and the health system of € 13.8 billion. Citizens' and households' fees totalled 9.9% more than in the previous year. At the same time as the implementation of the operating expenditure during 2004 it was smooth and well-funded investment works and all investment projects were completed in time and time. In 2004, 4.2 billion kuna or more than 20% were allocated to investment works from the state budget than in the previous year. In all, the public sector in 2004 has singled out 11.3 billion kunas or 6% of gross domestic products for investment works, I mean state budgets and extra budget funds and local administration. Thank you very much. I'm standing by for your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38731	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38732	The State Secretary incorrectly stated that the deficit of 6.5% from 2003 was reduced to 4.5%. These are incomparable data, because 6.5 was calculated according to the modified method for the first time in Croatia, while according to the comparative method, the cash principle was 4.9 compared to this year's 4.5 which is actually due to the withdrawal of nearly 2 billion kuna profits from the Croatian Telecom.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38733	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President of the Committee, the Honored Representative of Šima Prtenjak, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38734	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow for a brief report of the Committee meeting held at the 31st session held on 8 June, the Committee considered the draft annual budget calculation for 2004 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 128(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Budget Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, sent the Croatian Parliament a proposal for the annual accounts of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on the use of the 2004 budget stock. In the opening statement of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he pointed out briefly the most important macroeconomic indicators and the achievement of income and income, expenditure and expenditure and deficits of the state budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2004. In 2004. For the first time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the principles of fiscal policy for the period 2005, particularly pointing to the most important objective of the 2004 fiscal policy programme aimed at establishing transparency and efficiency in public expenditure and public debt management in order to reduce external vulnerability and to start a medium-term consolidation of state finances. The Finance and State Budget Committee of the Republic of Croatia decided without debate by majority vote 6 for and 2 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Annual Accounting of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. The conclusion is adopted in the Annex of course, a report on the use of the 2004 budget stock is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38735	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ MPs is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38736	Thank you. Once again, the HDZ Club will, of course, accept this report, support and here is a reason why we feel that this report should be accepted. The main objectives of macroeconomic policy, economic and fiscal policy and, in that part and monetary policy relating to this accounting period, should be accepted because the fundamental objectives of this policy for 2004 have been achieved. The main reasons for this is the growth of economic activity and the achievement of the core macroeconomic objectives by reducing the deficits of the state budget, the consolidation of public finances, the reduction of the current balance of payments deficits, the establishment of external debt growth, the slowdown of external debt growth and the retention of price stability. Also in this part of monetary policy, the stability of the exchange rate, on which all elements are later. In addition, credit rating has also been improved, and the relationship has also been improved in increasing or stabilising yields between the Croatian and German reference euro bonds. Gross domestic product very briefly, review over it, gross domestic, although I agree that bringing down the comparatives which has already been objecting to it, the company given the different methods of measurement that it is very difficult in parts of points I would not like to speak but I will try to draw conclusions within that. The gross social product grew at a rate of 3.8%, however, which I believe is important in the HDZ Club, noting that in the last quarter of 2003 there was a significant decline in the social gross product and that in the first quarter of 2004 it was in fact necessary to stop the decline and only then in the second half of the year and forward to the age of the social product, which was then the rate of 3.8 we hold satisfactory. So the parallel are the trends of decline in the first phase and then the continuing phase of growth in the second phase. Which is characteristic, and I also want to briefly explain the slowdown in investment growth to rates of 4.4%, why. Because investments, especially in road construction, were either peaked somewhere in the summer, in mid-2003, and given the work programme and which were envisaged for 2004 and the stabilisation especially in public enterprises, such a trend of growth was also envisaged, of course, that the reduction of debt, the reduction of investment in this sector, also has certain other trends which have resulted in the growth of gross social product, as is the return of course. Personal consumption also had a real rise of 3.9% but this personal consumption was partly related to this consumption of investment consumption and it also had its sources and then to the 2004 movement, at this rate that is acceptable to us. For the first time, state spending has actually fallen and this means that however, trends in public finances control, or public debt, better say spending in the state spending sector for the first time, let us record that rate. Exports and imports in particular, and we will see later through a brief analysis that this particular ratio of imports and exports is particularly relevant and that there has been a change in structure. The export price increased by a rate of 5.4% and the imports slowed down the growth rate of 3.5%, which means that we started what was desirable, of course, in the coming times to increase the level of coverage of imports and exports and already the coverage has already been reached somewhere around 44%. In the structure of gross social product in 2004, there has also been a change and we consider these changes positive trends and it would be good for them to stabilise and continue to strengthen in the modified structure. The strongest exports I briefly said were particularly exports of goods and services, which is encouraging in 2004 and its increases in the structure of the gross social product. For the first time since 2000, for the first time in five years, he has a tendency to grow in a gross social product of about half a percent but still records the first time the trend of growth within the structure. Then, special consumption of personal and state consumption reduced its participation, which we can also comment on in a way that stabilises spending control within the sector. Gross investment in capital is also growing, and we also find it important to change the structure of the gross social product, therefore there is a slight change in the structure. Industrial production of what was encouraging in 2004, industrial production has increased by 3.7% now within and industrially again when analysis is carried out, sectoral analysis within it then we see that the processing industry is growing and in this processing industry, in particular that metal, or metal production is growing, and so in the export structure, it also positively makes a significant share. What is related and related to investment and development was mining and rock extraction, of course it was directly connected to road construction and we hope that this trend, which is this year, will even be improved in the next period. In the structure of exports or production is the most significant participation of metal and we also talk about exports, then the production of motor vehicles and trailers, etc., hence the technical means in which the labour price is installed. We have a significant increase in food, wood and chemical industries, which also means that recovery occurs in these sectors and such a trend should be further supported through other measures of economic policy. It is precisely the growth of these branches that has contributed to export growth and to the coverage of imports in the amount we have said. We also had a rise from the retail to a little nominal of 4.4%, actually about 2.6%. Of course it's about those movements from the previous comment through personal state consumption and the rest. Tourism also has a stabilization of the number of guests through measurements, overnights and other indicators. Somewhere around 6% of arrivals are more than 2% of some nights but it is important here to stabilise the relationship between domestic and foreign and to resuscitate and restore the structure of Germans, Italians and Slovenians, and three groups that are important for Croatian tourism. And of course that tendency, that we have to actually support it and in the future through all these measures. Now, employment pays and that's what's most intriguing to all but according to the indicators shown this year, it says that employment has increased by 1.2% in the structure by a total measured average at year level. Therefore, it is still the rate of employment growth, of course then the unemployment rate drops through the same measurement system around 6%. Salaries of gross or net growth were about 6.4, 5.9 or so, so it depends on those liabilities from wages and on wages, so that the increase and wages in the rate of 5.9% of course can be done or can be satisfied with the employees and for those others we will later see through those measures achieved through the budget that they also had a tendency to grow somewhere at the height of the salary. In the trade, I have already briefly commented that exports and imports have had positive trends and that this coverage of imports is also approaching 48.4 or at least that desired rate if not in these conditions and increased. Prices. We can also say that prices have been stabilised but the price impact was particularly highlighted by significant stabilisation or a slight increase in the impact of the oil price and, of course, the structure of the oil within it, some gas and some nutrition in this winter period at the end of the year which unfortunately continued the trend at the beginning of this year. Therefore, we consider that prices were stable and were achieved at a relatively low level. In the financial sector, however, there has been extremely strong pressure on the appreciation of the kuna, but we can also be satisfied that the ratio of the kuna to the euro and by the dollar has kept in these conditions a satisfactory level that could have had in view of pressure trends could have even worse consequences. In the bank's monetary developments in the total debt structure, they're participating with around 25%, other sectors around 18.9 seems to me to be 19% almost, the state is shrinking and their participation and responsibilities are somewhere around 9.4-9.5, here somewhere, and that's a positive trend. In particular, the strong task of banks at the end of the year is that I cannot even personally comment on why this significant debt occurred but then increased the debt, the total debt in the last year. However, what is significant is that bank funds are being allocated to an allotment of such funds, that the previously weighted structure was the population and that it is now gradually moving on to the economy sector, which also points to strengthening the economy sector and the placement of funds within it. However, what I think is important here and here at the pay phone is to publicly point out that although macroeconomic analysts have different treatment for this country's or the structure inside and, of course, the extent of the sightings that are so different. But what is important is to point out that the population sector is relatively in charge, that somewhere around 65.3 billion wastes on the population sector and that the economy is being waste 53 and some billion, which means that the population is more in charge, which we can comment again, given the savings of the citizens we see later through certain structures that do not have to be in charge, but individuals in such debt can come under attack, which would then not be of course good. Total savings tend to grow, about 10% increase in savings. Therefore, debt is growing but savings are growing and this ratio should be controlled or in some way satisfied with the trends that have been made this year. In the money market, the increase in the total money market by almost 10 billion in the capital market is three characteristics that I already introduced, and I said that in particular Krobeks recorded an increase of 31-32% and that other trends also point to an increase in the capital market. I briefly commented on the Euro bonds, the ratio of Croatian and German reference and the improvement of the 3% credit rating. Foreign sectors, external debt, we point out once more specifically to reduce that imports are growing. The balance of payments also achieves positive results which we also express satisfaction in this year. And finally, that deficit short to return to the government budget deficit again that we consider in this year, given that setting the goals is that it satisfies both stabilisation and deficits but also control costs within this time period so that we can be satisfied with it and that they provide a solid basis in stabilising public costs and duties for the next period. We therefore believe that this budget calculation for the previous year will be supported and there is no reason not to be satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38737	Thank you very much. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38738	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club at the 2004 Annual National Accountation Proposal wants to assess the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. In the first place, we would like to point out that during the 12th month of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown that it has taken away the right of the Croatian Parliament to bring the state budget in the future. In addition to taking over the post of adoption of a state budget that has no constitutional right, it also took away all of us the right to control the items of the state budget. This shows the draft budget. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not implement reforms in 2004 and did not provide the necessary support for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the reason for the further decline in the growth rate of the economy and the cause of all poor macroeconomic movements in 2004. Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia demonstrated its incompetence in its inaction in 2004 and this is the reason that it has not achieved any of the intended fiscal consolidation goals and fiscal objectives foreseen for the medium term, which means lost years. What resulted from the failure to achieve these goals? Uncontrollable expenditure growth in the state budget, the inability of finance to ensure the necessary revenue so that incomes can compensate for uncontrolled expenditures. They are also the reason for the growth of public debt with more than 10 billion kuna, because expenditures were to be covered and insurance, I would say, the new inability and inability to charge. Also, the growth of external debt, the truth is no longer heard by the government gentlemen that it is Argentina's case, but it is purely macroeconomic economic data. We are glad not to scare the citizens of Croatia anymore. Also... Realising that we did not stop the trend in price growth in Croatia by not doing it because of the rise in fuel prices, so unfortunately last year we have a significant increase in prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also want to make it clear that the main objective that has been said is not to reduce the budget deficits. And the combinations, the methodologies mentioned in this budget, we're going to talk later on on behalf of the Club because it's obvious that when it doesn't work out in what was promised in some way, then it's trying to talk about different methodologies. But the biggest tragedy is that more than 5 billion kunas of unpaid liabilities are hidden from the administration, which companies owned by the Croatian state and thus do not show true data about the real budget deficit. But also by its failure to act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia causes no liquidity in the Republic of Croatia for the reason that a good part of not paying off the budget, from companies, is re-emerged by the state as one of the major debtors in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to these assessments of this budget, it is evident that the agreement with the IMF also shows the government's non-responsibility for signed international documents. This time, the IMF is not an institution that will send a negative message to, I would say to foreign creditors and the international financial market. This time, the IMF is an institution in the role of the European Commission, which assesses the readiness and ability from the economic point of view of the Croatian State to join the European Union and to start negotiations. Therefore, another goal, and this was to turn around and be as effective as possible in entering European integration, so with this kind of behavior, we are moving away. However, it is tragic, I would say a message and cry out to the IMF that simply calls on all factors and political and I would say trade unions and economics to help the government finally settle and start their work. Because it's simply the only thing left for the IMF when he read this balance, when he saw this balance and came up with the tragic knowledge of the failure to meet the objectives that we set out in early 2004. That's grades, I'd say, the government's work by the 2004 Club. So allow me some of the arguments I'm going to make on behalf of the Club and we'll try the rest in individual debates. Let's start with the revenue very briefly first. The revenues show above all that the government had no policy or wanted to provide the necessary funds for privatisation revenues. If it hadn't even been for rebalancing in the 7th month, we wouldn't have had that 2 billion as much as it was transferred from the earlier profits of companies and essentially taken away from the economy for development and for at least another 1% of the growth rates that we should have provided. Without privatisation policy, we are unable to enter any development projects. And that's why we don't have railways, gas or further road construction. And deep, deep lags even in road construction projects. Because we didn't have our own choices. It wasn't that policy. And at the same time, we had signed documents. It shows that the government didn't work, that the government didn't decide. And then there's another problem. Given the enormous overruns in pay for wages. But not because we've increased wages so we'd have more satisfaction, more capacity for people in the state administration, in public services that could do a certain part of the job especially in compliance with regulations with Europe, we have an increase in the number of employees. And the huge promise we had, the little government, the rational, efficient administration, we have a huge increase in the number of people that cost in 2004. 600 and a few million new expenses. New expenses. And, by the way, what have we done? To cover these expenditures we did not pay bills for material expenses, we did not pay bills for individual non-financial expenditures and thus the Government in 12 months avoids budget and budget rebalances in the Parliament. Citing some kind of authority in the Budgetary Act, she did what she had no right to do. It increased expenditures, increased expenditures by over 250 million and called for the right that the parliamentary majority gave. But she didn't have that right. And not only that, we're going to talk about this in particular, many items have been deleted, and some items have been added. Well, that doesn't have the right Croatian government. That doesn't have a right. But why we had to have overruns. And further on, imagine, the finance minister writes in this document that his gray economy has grown, that it has not been able to collect basic taxes on goods, neither VAT nor excise duty has increased his grey economy. And now imagine those principles of transparency, and part of us can't read this. When we compare the rebalancing of the 7th month adopted by this Parliament, we are unable to compare it to the document. It's transparency, so we Parliamentarians don't know how to read, let alone someone else. And at the same time, we need to understand that the minister couldn't control the gray zone. These financial police, and money for the financial police, and financial police employees, and tax administration, and the incompetent former government knew nothing. And at this point, we have an explanation. However, in fact, the only one I would say is a surprise greater than the plan was on income tax. But I don't want to do it on behalf of the club. We'll talk about it individually. Does that also mean that the Ministry of Finance couldn't assess the revenues? What about the deficit? A story that entertained the Croatian public in 2004. I wouldn't call it that method as Mr. Shucker called it, the modified method, no, because if it's a modified method then we want to know what these material costs are that the government didn't want to pay to be able to carry out overwork on salaries? What are the material costs? Because they were made but not paid and not shown. And we're going to be pulling it out this whole year because we can't accept such intransparency and such unseriousness. We also want to talk throughout this document about guarantees for the Croatian railway. Billion kuna of unpaid bills in the Croatian railway. One billion unpaid bills. Three hundred forty days of unpaid suppliers. It's a payment deadline. Three hundred forty days. That's transparency. It's a deficit. We want to see him here. We don't have it on display. What about health care? Three billion unpaid bills. Three and a half billion unpaid bills. Why isn't it shown here? We talked about it all the time. Last year, an unpaid hospital was written, unpaid for this. Why don't we have that data today? Why are we playing with each other about this? Inadmissible behavior. And we want that... And unfortunately, there's no investment in the road, but we do have unpaid bills in road construction companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we want to see. That's what we want. We can't accept that it's written in cash both on roads and on these and on those. The railroad isn't our concern either, because there's no guarantee. But unpaid bills whose concern? Such methodologies, such playing Croatian public is unacceptable. It can't be called a transparent display of the accounts for the past year. What we also want to point out very clearly is that the biggest problem of the Croatian government is that its reforms did not address rational consumption in the last year. There's no such reform. Without these reforms, it is evident that we will not be able to achieve the objectives set out in the 2004-2007 budget or budget period. We are automatically jeopardizing our basic goals. The fundamental objectives of helping the economy that must succeed in the battle for the market economy and the fundamental objectives that will enable us to realise quality negotiations with the European Union. That is why we invite all of you in the House to discuss this document seriously. It's a tragedy for us that there is no Minister Shuker today. He's not interested in hearing about the work of the entire government. The entire government in 2004. It's a document that doesn't talk about numbers. He's talking about work. None of us want to comment on how the world evaluates us. These figures the world estimates. He won't give his grades because he's afraid to give them. But we need to talk about it openly. Because that world estimates that we have to do something together. How will we do this together when what we see the Government wants to deny, does not want to discuss it. Most in the Croatian Parliament do not want to talk openly about problems, and the problems are called no reforms, no changes. We won't achieve our goals. Then the question remains if we don't want to talk that way okay. There will be no unity. It's just that if there's no common ground in solving these problems, if there's no common ground, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve the goals that we've outlined. The SDP club wants to help the government fully run responsible policy, but in this way speaking of this document, I don't think the government has shown the will to give the SDP club support in that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38739	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38740	The Honorable Mr. President, Mr. Representative has spoken a number of incorrect allegations as if we were reading different reports. But due to lack of time, only two. He said literally that this report and the poor budget were caused by a negative trend in economic growth. However, all objective indicators that are statistical evidence show that all economic growth indicators are positive. Export growth covered 48.5% of imports which is 5% more than in 2003. Industrial production growth by 3.5%. 19 thousand 924 newly employed + 24 thousand new ones who came from school also so over 50,000 new jobs. The unemployment rate's down by 1 and a half percent. And so on and so forth. The second is that he said no reduction in the fiscal deficit was achieved. So in today's Vesnik, one who does not follow the expert literature can read the report of a permanent IMF representative in Croatia who literally said: "All the goals set by the state budget other than the fiscal deficit have been achieved in the past year, but there has been significant progress compared to 2003." That is correct and should be congratulated on by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38741	Thank you. The second correction by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38742	Mr. President, the honourable representative, among other things, incorrectly said in an elevated tone, I quote: "At the 12th month of last year, the government seized the right of the Croatian Parliament to bring the state budget." This is not only not true but it really does not constitute some basis for a serious discussion on this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38743	Third correction, respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38744	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Linic said the minister found that the grey economy grew in 2004 but I must say it is not true. That it doesn't stand in this report. On page 269, it is mentioned and it is a grey economy, but this is compared to the planned revenues when it comes to tax revenues or excise duties, and it is true that certain excise duties are not achieved in the planned amount, but you have sort of interpreted it as a partial. And when it comes to liquidity, it's also not exactly where the state appears here as the main indifference generator at state level. This is not true because the report, not only of this, but also of the Croatian National Bank, states that the state fulfils all its obligations and that the time of payment of the commitments made is not significantly shifted in a negative way compared to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38745	And the fourth correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38746	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim. The government did not support the economy. So I see here that in the review of the cost-expension plan, over five billion have won the economy. But what's interesting is that not only do you ignore everything the Ministry of Economy does. As far as reform is concerned, we've been listening for 40 years or more. It was a hit by 1990. Every few years the results are known. Catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38747	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS Club PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38748	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, these games are funny with the expectations of television. Col. Kovacevic was third, so since he wasn't half 11 he withdrew his application to arrive at the time when television was. It is truly unserious that this House is being put into a situation that depends on when television broadcast begins and a game is played among clubs who will register. I mean, we really made things absurd. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's about Mr. President that the clubs are expecting television and no one's going to sign up, then there's a game so dirty, it logs in, and then the applications are withdrawn, and so on. All right, let's let it go now. So this is a budget calculation, de facto it's a representation of one policy, government policy and policy of all ministries, and here should be not only all ministers present but also the Prime Minister and we don't actually have a finance minister here. There is only the State Secretary and Assistant Minister, and it is indeed in itself an indication that the government is referring to this House, extremely unserious. This is a picture of the entire policy that's been going on for the past year. And it would be okay if every minister was there, that it could be obvious, that it could be debated, that he could hear what the MPs were saying, of course there should be a Prime Minister, because that's the whole policy of the government. And not only is he not here, but there is no Minister of Finance and there is indeed one indicator of how we treat the Croatian Parliament. But what's more important is what I'm about to say. It's actually about how it is, how this budget was formed. And it's really more than a scandal. When you look at the budget figures then you see that most of these items are achieved with 100% which is not possible. In the most perfect planning it is not possible to achieve half of the budget items with 100% and then look at what this is about. For example, even obligations under court disputes that are almost impossible to plan because you do not know how some court dispute will end have been reached by 99.99%. Well, that's perfect planning for the work of Croatian courts. So look, for example, how the salaries at schools are 2 billion 645 million 964 kuna and zero lipa, the plan has been missed only by 5 limes. It was realized by 100%. Well, that's something perfect. Well, we've come really into a state of absolute perfection, and we don't really have to do anything anymore. That's the kind of thing that gets so confused that then I look at what it's really about. It's just that this is a falsified budget. This is not the budget brought by the Croatian Parliament. That's not the budget that we made, when it was, in June last year, that's the technical rebalance of the government's budget. And not just on these tiny items, but on all the items, according to the highest items. For example, you look at the budget rebalancing that has brought the Croatian Parliament and this budget to, let's say, the most important item, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so you'll see something that is absolutely unacceptable, I don't know how the Ministry of Finance or, first of all, the Prime Minister can allow it. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to this, was a plan of 145 million kuna, according to it here, but with the budget rebalance, it was 157 million kuna. The government carried out in 12 months, and this is what counterpart Linic said, the technical rebalancing of the budget without the Croatian Parliament, which in one part of the law can do but only in exceptional circumstances and not as a rule and of course not on the highest paragraphs. But if the government had already done so, then we should have had the real budget here and seen what the real budget ratio, the one that brought the Croatian Parliament, the technical rebalancing that the government did and the execution. So what happened? The government has turned what it accomplished somewhere there in 12 months into a plan. And that plan and the execution of course are the same, because the implementation of the government budget made it a plan. Which means there's no plan at all. This means not only that it is an irresponsible relationship to the Croatian Parliament. This is really a fake, it's an attempt at fraud, and it has to be sanctioned. If we're gonna do this then there won't be a plan, there's no need to plan. If there's no planning, then there's no politics. Everything you do is perfect because it's done with 100%. It is indeed something that is absolutely inadmissible, this provision, which the Government calls upon, is only in exceptional circumstances and is assumed to be in fact only for some of the smallest items within the budget, and not that you can change the most budget items, the Government, all ministries have changed without the Croatian Parliament knowing it. Well, that's something that's beneath each level really. And this is the second or third example of disrespect and relations to finance, responsibility to politics, to business, and of course, and then shows how it is to the Parliament, because it is not even mentioned in the budget's reasoning. You have to analyze, by looking at the old documents that you lost somewhere or you haven't lost them, the government doesn't warn you at all in these documents that she filed. So it's something that's absolutely below each level and this budget is a falsification, it's not a calculation of the budget but it's just a representation of what was spent without any possibility to see which was agreed by the Parliament accepting fiscal policy, which, of course, means the overall policy and that's something that someone really should be responsible for this. This is, of course, happening on all the other items, on all the items of the ministries, not to say what drastic changes occur on some very important sub-items. If the total budget of the ministry changes, then you can think about what's going on there with an article, but it's almost impossible to follow because the government isn't actually like I said I gave the budget to compare it. But we are comparing the budget de facto to ourselves, which, of course, is no comparison and prevents any policy from being monitored. As far as these most important issues are concerned, this is certainly a matter of budget deficits. It's about how the budget deficit is down from 6, something to 4.7, and it actually forgets a number of very important things. First of all, the fact that a dividend is withdrawn this year is about 1% of the gross national product. So it's actually an artificially reduced deficit. So if, if the dividend hadn't been withdrawn as it had then it would have been about 1% of the gross national product larger. Or if the government had withdrawn that dividend in 2003 then its deficit would have been 1% lower. It's manipulation. Not to mention the debt. If it's a government debt, and in 2000 it's worth remembering, we found it at about nine billion. Nine billion kuna is 4.5% of gross national product. This automatically means that the deficit rises by 4 and a half percent. That's falsifying data. If the current public debt, which of course is not visible here, is only 2 billion, it's a 1% deficit growth. If it's 4 billion, it's 2%, etc. So then this information that our deficit of the state budget is 4.7% is really very problematic. And the third dimension that puts all this together is the fact that the debts in 2003 are pumped. The old methodology was abandoned that the expenses from the 12th month were transferred to the next year than everyone was pushed back in 2003 so that that year was from the 12th month of 2002 and the 12th month of 2003, so that year was de facto 13 months, which, of course, is not the case here. If you have this in mind that these costs were pushed in 2003, that the pump deficit in 2003 was then, of course, the deficit in 2004 was reduced again by some 1% of the gross national product. Well, it's really a technology that can't be used. Well, after two years of work, a parliamentary representative would have to take the budget and easily access that crucial data. It's not possible here. These are such documents, so some data doesn't exist at all, and those who exist here must be an amazing expert to come to them because every year the technology changes. And these things that I was talking about, so this public debt, the pump in 2003, and the expansion of 2004, of course there is no such thing here at all, and that way we can play, of course, and I don't know who, with the public, with the International Monetary Fund, etc. But we can't change reality. If we don't have clear information about what our budget is, what is the real government deficit without hiding, then we won't be able to, maybe we'll fool someone, ourselves, the public, the IMF, but we won't be able to run the right policy. And that's something that should absolutely change. Finally, after 15 years of democracy, we should come up with a clear budget from which people who follow it, and MPs certainly fall within that circle with one simple insight could come up with this basic data. What is the real deficit, what is the growth of external or total public debt or at least debt of the state. That should be shared with one view, not that you have to hunt here three last budgets, of course where you're going to keep it, I think it would come to that kind of data at all. Everything changes, names change, ministries change, accounting technology changes, and of course reality cannot change such paper manipulations. The other thing that is of course very important is the growth of debt. Debt growth dynamics have been reduced, but no debt growth has been reduced. It was one of the most important things in which a political match was held before the last parliamentary elections, but of course the realities were different than the political announcements and promises and the growth of debt, however much less dynamically it was before it was very significant. The comfort that this dominant borrowing on the domestic market is absolutely unnecessary. We know that most of our banks are in foreign hands, therefore it is again de facto borrowing outside and of course with greater interest. So these are things that are absolutely not in favor not only of responsible bookkeeping that I was talking about but actually of fruit and bad policy. And another very unpleasant piece of information from what you come up with. The repayment of the principal debt is planned somewhere with 8.5 billion, and it's made from somewhere around 6 billion. So the external return order, to settle the debt beyond the 3 billion-dollar plan, went to the head, went to the interest. What does that really mean? That this principal is waiting for us, that we haven't cut the debt, and that's a bad plan of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, a very unpleasant fact. And just a few more individual things when we talk about the budget. In the Ministry of Health, the General Hospital Sibenik, Virovitica and some other hospitals are financed with 6 million kuna, 4 million kuna, Vukovar with 5 million kuna, and we know that the government has abolished the decision to develop the hospital system by declaring hospital funding illegal, because it is not in central government jurisdiction, and here it seems. So it was just an excuse to do it, to break one in my opinion a good decision because it was made by someone else, and illegality as an argument absolutely does not stand, because such a large amount of funding for these three hospitals, there is more, shows that it is not so. So this budget is really scandalous by methodology, and the results of the bad and the Club of HNS and PGS will not be for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38749	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38750	Well, I'd just correct my colleague, Radosh, if the funding for the construction of hospitals in every county hadn't been cut off. It was interrupted at 14, not five o'clock. Obviously there are, that somewhere it's in 5 within the law, it's not in 14. They're not the same laws in every county.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38751	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38752	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to correct this inaccuracies of hospital financing. The laws are the same respected advocate in all counties and what Mr. Rados said is not true. We didn't just finance those hospitals that the government passed in 2003, so before us, we can't finance, they're county hospitals. The exception is the hospital in areas of special state concern, we continued to finance them and the exception was already found signed contracts that we couldn't even break down, so we continued to finance them, because the damage to the dispersion would be greater for both the state and the hospital. And Mr. Radosh's second incorrect quote is that the deficit of 4.7% is problematic and that we deceive the IMF, the public and ourselves. The IMF, the public and itself were overrun by the government that announced the 4.5% deficit and then the IMF audit came and saw the deficit was 6.6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38753	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38754	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance. The debate on the calculation of the State budget by our court should be the introduction of a debate on the State budget for the following year. However, despite the fact that we are now in mid-June, we know well that we will discuss the budget for next year in the general race of the year within a week. From the collection of certain taxes in this account, some parts of this budget can already learn how to make a quality budget for next year. We can also do such a detailed analysis when we are doing a budget analysis for this year. It is usually done in September for the first six months of this year, but what the HSP club insists on is to change the practice in the Croatian Parliament and start discussing the budget, to start planning its items months ago. There is no reason for these items to be planned in the general race of the last month, or for the Parliament to discuss all this within the last week before the adoption. What is obvious from this budget, first of all, is that the Croatian State and its tax administration actually do not have an effective tax collection mechanism. If excise duties are planned to increase by 8.4% and they only increased by 1.2% then that means that either someone has been thoroughly wrong about planning excise incomes or that the tax collection system is not functioning. There's no other reason why that would be. It cannot explain either the amendments to the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco or Customs Procedures which have braked imports of cars, imports of coffee or anything else. It's simple with the fact that either someone at the Ministry of Finance doesn't know mathematics or the cost system doesn't work. Concessions are also problematic. It's obvious not only that the charge on concessions is ridiculously small but that it's also seen a 18.4% drop. There is no excuse only in that there is no payment of the concession for the 3rd mobile operator I hold that the problem is much deeper, and the problem is that it is incomprehensible that Croatia, which is rich in mineral wealth, is therefore a country rich in water, a country rich in resources such as the maritime good, plans to charge excise duties of 2,3 billion kuna. And that's what HSP has constantly warned that it's really strange that in the budgets, in the state revenues, no more plans than we have, and that's the maritime good, it's the mineral wealth and it's the drinking water. The drinking water is a strategic resource of Croatia, on the side that neither this government nor the former has done God knows what to make drinking water of protection, i.e. by means of a special law or a special declaration we establish drinking water as a strategic important natural resource, but it is amazing that, with all this, we are expensive from concessions and for this natural resource we earn so little. Some progress in this budget can only be seen in terms of payment of fines, from 307 million we jumped to 342 million, I don't know if it's more effective police or if it's 0 changed, but if that's the whole result of those 30 million kunas, then it's better that we didn't even get into that whole story. I want to remind again of VAT revenue here. The VAT revenue is constant, a comparison of all these years is observed that VAT is always around 27 to 29 billion kuna, and this VAT has also not increased as much as planned but which percentage is actually the biggest guarantee of stable financing of the Croatian State budget, and therefore all calculations and all plans for reducing VAT by 2%, however, the Croatian state has not yet found a response, yet no consensus has been reached on whether or not all VAT rates are introduced, and we hold that this debate must be partly focused on this, because we believe that the introduction of VAT rates for tourism, among VAT rates for a number of other products, is acceptable for both the IMF and the European Union, or we will have to do so through the tax refund system, but we will definitely have to respond to some of the requirements of the EU's FDI and the EU. It is also interesting to see the fact that the revenue from real estate traffic is growing, not so long ago here in the Parliament we discussed the problem of selling real estate on the coast, i.e. the phenomenon of buying Croatian islands. This growth in real estate tax clearly shows the interest of Croatia's coast, what is the interest in Croatia's islands, and it is a clear signal that both the Government and the Parliament must do more to protect the most valuable parts of our coast and island. Unfortunately, our model by which we wanted to protect against the stampede sale of our island was not adopted, and the new model from the government was not obtained. It is also interesting that the income tax, despite all the benefits, is also constant, it amounted to about $3.1 billion, and that amount itself says how much more can be done in this field in the form of tax reliefs and introducing new rates. Each of these tax reliefs, each of the income tax cuts, each such increase in the salaries of our citizens, without a problem, would be compensated by ladies and gentlemen more regular and more correct fees, more regular and more correct payment of concessions. Any country that takes care of the standard of its citizens would behave that way. Unfortunately, we have put ourselves in a position where we can collect money and this is in a regular and proper charge of excise duties we do not do so, but that is why we are pushing citizens around to collect income taxes, because it is obviously far simpler. Finally, I would refer to the fact that dividend revenues are growing, and this also leads us to a key question, and this is whether Croatia really needs to privatise everything it has, whether Croatia really needs to sell what it earns, how much it made sense to sell to Deutsche Telekom Croatia if it brings such a profit. I agree with the fact that some companies are not profitable, it is understandable that the state is trying to resolve the non-profitability of the loss portfolio, but one wonders in all these situations whether it was better to take credit and pay it off the dividends of economically successful telecommunications firms than to lose out on that resource forever, and this is not only true for telecommunications but also for a whole series of other companies. The HSP Club will take note of this Report of the State Budget's billing last year with one note that it is really bad if the Council continues to practice that ad hoc budgets are discussed, that the budgets are adopted in panic within a week or that the debate on all budget items does not take place per month or two in advance, that all items are discussed if they are indeed of such strategic importance in time and reach consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38755	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38756	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a distinguished colleague, Tadic, cited one great inaccuracy in his presentation. He stated that this Croatian government is doing nothing to take, to protect drinking water. counterpart Tadic obviously forgot that there is a constitution in this country that was filed 15 years ago and that there is a Law on the Croatian Water Economy. Both are arranged that water is particularly national and national, that it is particularly protected by the Constitution and laws, especially by the Water Economy Act. On drinking water, counterpart Tadic, I cannot acquire any ownership. You can only gain use, nothing else. Therefore, there is no need for any other law to bring and protect what has been resolved by the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38757	Thank you very much. At 10.46, it was time to apply for a ten-minute debate on this subject. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38758	Thank you very much. So here's a series of explanations, clarifications and visions from the government's side of what's been said so far. I was preparing for this debate this morning thinking that talking about the calculation method is actually too much of a technicality and too little subject for this House because we talked a lot about the method of calculation and what we want to say is that the budget is calculated by the same method when we talk about the deficit as it was for 2003 and that same method used for the calculation and which is called the modified accounting principle was agreed in June 2003 with the International Monetary Fund and only continued to be used in 2004 and properly applied on 2003. The result is 63 in 2003 and 4.9 in 2004 for the general state. As for the dividend that also brings here in connection with the method of calculation should be said as follows. The dividend is property income. So, by withdrawing the dividend property of the Republic of Croatia in HT, it remained unchanged and I would say thank God that there are companies that are owned by the Republic and which are successfully doing business and bringing income and profit, and not just losses and problems. The Republic of Croatia, in this sense as owner, like any other owner in the Republic of Croatia or in the world in the market economy, I think it has the right to use income from its ownership, especially since the company mentioned was and is still one of the most liquid companies in Croatia and therefore, as can be seen in its balance sheet, a significant part of its assets is held in the form of money. And why was that property income used? Well, at least that's clearly visible and just pointed out in the opening speech. If you remember in the opening speech, I was saying there was a current surplus in the budget. So part of these current incomes of 4 billion, so twice as much as that dividend was saved and invested in capital investments. Thus, by using the property revenue, the government invested it and increased its assets. Therefore, not only did it not spend that income on current consumption but it increased its own assets with ownership revenue. Therefore, to say, the more you say that dividend is exactly, to go back to that budget, that dividend exactly the reason the difference in the calculation is incorrect because every businessman knows that the dividend income is not income from the sale of assets but is the current income that is repeated every year. To say there's no investment and say there's no road and that the project stands, that there's a reason I think there's nothing to say, you should go take a look. Well, then make sure there is or isn't because I don't think words should be wasted on that. To say that in 2004, the year was lost. And why would you say that? I do not want to use any domestic argument but only the fact that in the past year, for the first time since seven years, the Republic of Croatia has increased its credit rating, the first time since January 1997, when the Republic of Croatia acquired a credit rating, it has changed and it has changed worse. That's not what we're talking about, that analysis and that assessment didn't make either the Ministry of Finance or any domestic analyst. Made them an independent and highly credible reitting agency. Therefore, I think the assessment that this is a lost year is not supposed to add any more. To say that Croatia did not stop the trend in oil prices. Oil's about 56 bucks apiece right now. It is a structural disturbance in the oil market, resulting in an increase in consumer prices in the Republic of Croatia of 2.1. Therefore, to say that inflation is returning to Croatia, to say that the Government has done nothing, I think, and that it does not quite match the data that we can read and which can be seen in this budget report as well. I would like to draw your attention to the account itself that the execution of the expenditure is 99.6% in relation to the business expenditure plan or expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets 92%. Thus, in itself, it says that the government has neither changed nor increased the plan compared to what the Croatian Parliament has brought. In conclusion, I would also like to say a few notes on the transparency, availability and quality of this calculation. It's a large document. In it all data are legally prescribed and, moreover, as regards debt, public, external, by different classifications, all this is available in publications of the Ministry of Finance,... The website is very spotless monthly and anyone who monitors can be very precise informed about state operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which wasn't always the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38759	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38760	Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State can't judge us that we don't know how to read. It is easy to read that the budget deficit of the central state is shown according to the 2004 cash principle, 4.5%. And that for 2003 it was shown according to the modified principle of so for 2004 it was not shown according to the modified principle. That income has not increased, it is incorrect, or expenditure. So here it is said that after the rebalancing, the expenditures amounted to 83 billion 203 million kuna and by the redistribution in the 12 months made by the Government of 83 billion 452 million. Well, that's how much we can read.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38761	Thank you. Second correction, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38762	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that the calculation is based on a modified method for 2004. 4.9 billion. That's not true. 600 million unpaid bills in the country and 350 for non-financial costs are not included in these 4.9. Billion kunas of unpaid bills in the Croatian Railways, if the amount of guarantees a billion kunas of unpaid bills entered the modified model in 2003, you did not enter. 3 billion unpaid bills in health care, please enter because they have not been entered. So we're talking about not using the same methods. And I think we're going to talk a lot more, of course we're going to try not to bother people who don't care about numbers, but 4.9 has to be written by the same methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38763	Thank you. Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38764	The State Secretary spoke about the methodology for calculating the state budget. But it's not a state budget bill brought by the Parliament, this is a calculation of the government's budget rebalancing, or otherwise this is a calculation of the numbered figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38765	And the fourth correction, the respected representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38766	The President-in-Office, the Honorable State Secretary, incorrectly denies that income from the dividend of public enterprises does not lead to the manipulation of the indicator of the state budget. Namely, the dividend of state-owned enterprises was created in 2003 and was added to the 2004 budget. It is indisputable property, we were not talking about it, but about the impact on the deficit of the state budget, which was exactly expressed by counterpart Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38767	Thank you. IDS representative club, Honorable representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38768	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. If I'm disturbed by something in this replica of the secretary of state, then it's her term used for the debate she's been having today that's actually a technical debate. If you're not going to talk about budgeting, it's about 83 billion kuna, I don't know what MPs should be talking about at all, it's not about technicals, it's simply about the essence of state action at some point. But fortunately at this session, there will be two reports, this account, or the next one. It means this 2004 bill and the 2004 Croatian National Bank Report and the first quarter of 2005. The Croatian National Bank report is important to us because there is little more detail on the growth of external debt. We have to admit that both reports are abundant. But now the other question is what Mr. Linic was talking about, or Mr. Radoš is hiding something here and I'm going to say that some things don't have to show up but hide nothing can. It's just not possible today, gentlemen. The Croatian National Bank oversees the bank and independent institutions and the Croatian National Bank, or the bank. About an international monetary fund or a world bank not to spend too much money. It's the same with business banks that finance the state budget. So in one word, a technical rebalancing like this one simply can't go through. And perhaps the right thing to do was to evaluate Mr. Radosh when he called him a forger. So from year to year business should be increasingly transparent, however, the question arises whether it really is. The truth is, when we talk about these macroeconomic indicators, it probably shouldn't be a disaster, but it's interesting on the other hand to monitor today's negotiations between the IMF on the one hand and the government on the other. I support the government's insistence, absolutely to reduce the deficit, in 2003 we read here that it was 6.3%, 2.4 equals 4.9, although it was planned 4.5% and it would be good that in 2005, it would not be more than 4%, although it would probably not be tragic, and if it were, but realistic, 4.2%. However, he cares about something else and these are announcements, e.g. the removal of zero rates, bread, milk, etc., the introduction of health participation up to and including for young people up to 18 years of age and over 75 years of age. Bigger, i.e. The faster privatisation of the remaining family silver, it is the Croatian bank, Croatia Insurance, Postage Bank, INA, and certainly giving up now from synchronising pensions with salary growth and moving again to so-called. Swiss formula, most likely in 2006. If that happens in the next 10 years, the government will save about 27 billion kuna. And it is predicted that only next year would it bring the government a 520m-euro savings. Now, it is good that this Greek Dimitrij Demekas is in front of the IMF at last, so he finally admitted that in Croatia they have Croatian laws. And if we are a legal state, then clearly the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected for the return of pensions. However, the government's intention to agree to pay off only one debt war in its term, most likely one month or two days before the 2007 elections, is nothing more than a new election engineering. There's nothing better to say than nothing. But that debt should be paid away before everything really comes down to a simple delusion. I said, by changing the way pensions in 10 years, the government would save 27 billion kunas, saying the debt would be paid back by reducing pensions by a new reckoning. This will say that there is indeed a world scale in the alchemy part. I'll take it from you first, so I'll take what I took from you with a year or two delays and pay you back, of course, without interest. And I don't know whose happiness, maybe every year the ruling coalitions will be less and 20 thousand pensioners because they are clearly dying and then the government will make a living. It's a great recipe, it really couldn't be invented anywhere down in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I need to pay you back 20 billion kuna and by changing the bill, the government is going to make 27 billion kuna, which is actually going to say that it's going to make seven billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38769	My colleague Cain, please return to the debate on the annual account proposal
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38770	Okay. Of course,
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38771	For 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38772	Clearly, this problem will arise, but this problem of pensions and health care is certainly Croatia's biggest problem with this catastrophic external debt and trend of imports. I'm not talking about unemployment. We all know that. We know that the Croatian average is 19%, in Slavonia 30%, in Istria 6.1%, in Zagreb 7.8% and so on. To come back means to retire. The contribution makes 14.8 billion kuna, and for pensions we need 25.4 billion. So in the pension budget, another $11.5 billion needs to be found. Health insurance contributes almost to covering the separation. The difference is 600 million kuna, 13.9, 13.3 billion kuna and maybe two, three years ago we haven't abolished those if I'm not mistaken for 0.5% of my contributions to health care. Maybe 500, 600 million kunas could have been allocated to capital facilities. Finally, what should also be here in this report admits that excise duties have failed greatly. Every year we have more and more cars for about 60 grand. We have more and more tourists, however, less income from them, which will say that spending is less, but incomes are smaller, which will say that clear people are harder to live and less are driving. But proceeds are falling based on the proceeds of alcoholic excise duties. Or the beer ones. Why? Because we've introduced that apurous provision of 0.0% and it must now be felt in the budget. Only on that basis is the budget of shorter gentlemen for 150 million kuna. There are no fewer deaths on our roads. There are, where there are highways, but there is no highway in Istria, for example, or in Zagreb. The police, to be so cynical, are trying to reduce that loss to the state. She went to work, but their work is in vain. Is that they worked a lot, that traffic tickets raised to 160 million kuna i.e. They've increased their income by 16.1%, but my advice is to loosen up a little bit. For from one beer or a glass of wine surely no one will be drunk, and on the other hand, this adventure under quotes can cost you 500 to 1500 kuna. It's the same thing with the tobacco. 140 million kuna less. How all of this will now reflect Bat's entry into the Croatian market and that remains to be seen. But between the world's monopolies and domestics, I would still side with the locals, no matter what I've never said before. As far as profit and income tax is concerned, it sounds almost incredible that these two taxes are even. 3.1 billion kuna. Why did he suddenly grow a profit tax? Well, that's because it can be exported abroad without taxation. HT and so on. So on the other hand, I'm thinking that with a certain decentralisation i.e. the reduction of part of the government's commitment to municipalities and cities, i.e. The county states can, under allegations, disown themselves in favour of local self-government. If this is not done then it is necessary to change the law that profits are really paid where business is done, not to say one Poreč Riviera pays Zagreb, not Poreč because it is its headquarters after privatisation today in Zagreb. The same thing is with banks and so on, but what I am afraid of is that if nothing here really changes, it will happen that Zagreb will politically, financially, vacuum the entire Republic of Croatia and therefore we really need as soon as possible regionalisation or decentralisation. In my opinion, with small pensions, modest wages and so on, I think, high prices, the biggest problem is that import-export ratio. I'm going to quote a few indicators for countries like that. transitions. Poland exports 70 billion kuna, imports 75 billion kuna. Hungary exports 54.3, imports 59 billion kuna. One Czech Republic exports 65.7 billion kuna, imports 67.5 billion kuna. A Slovak country that may be closest to us by population, has no need to export 27.9 billion kuna, imports 28.9 billion kuna, which will say that its trade is about 55 billion kuna. How much is it with Croatia? 25 billion kuna. So Czech Republic, Slovakia's pardon has a trade of 100 and something, 120, 130% higher than the Republic of Croatia. So all these countries have really encouraged the economy, gone beyond Croatia's economics, and Croatia will not understand either the capital in Croatia or Croatia will follow that capital. Yesterday I read one piece of information that Italy has 40,000 hotels, and Croatia has only 400. That's the gentlemen's point. Finally look at this gross social product per capital, Croatia is, just a little bit, about how much is it? $9,000 84, Slovakia is 12,000 400. It will take us 5.6 years to reach Slovakia in 2004. I agree that the war, the exile crisis, the rebuilding and so on, we have little and we have crashed according to "Storm", Croatia has cost a lot. But I think that this very moment as it attracts relevant capital is what it means to simply survive this country and the economy in these areas. But let's face it, from year to year things are moving slowly, but where is the biggest problem of this country? In slow motion. In slow motion. The gross social product in current prices, in the euro in 2002, was €24.2 billion. In 2003, only 25.5 billion. In 2004, only 27.6 billion. Not to mention the growth rates of industrial production, the gross social product and the like. So the Croatian problem or problem of all problems is simply that, the slowness of these processes. Let's kind of change everything, I'll say for the better, but more based on some momentum than some system policy or paraphrasing Linic, maybe he was too sharp when he said there was a lost year behind us. Maybe she's not lost, but I'm sure it's been a year since she got it. But come on, one is statistics, and the other is real development, accelerated development, and unfortunately, at this point, no one even sees it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38773	Thank you. State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38774	Well, I'd like to add, I've been kind of shocked by how many times the fact that the State budget is a forger. And I couldn't identify and decrypt what it was based on. No, I haven't, obviously I don't have enough experience in these jobs. And, in particular, the government has increased the overall budget framework by 248 million kuna. So I wanted to explain that, as the tables show, the execution is less than the plan, and on page 276, the truth is that the redistribution on the operating expenditure is secured or additional redistributed funds totalling 248 and a half million kuna. And that the largest redistribution increase is recorded in the employee expenditure item, item or the pay item. But also in the same paragraph, it says that at the same time the redistribution reduced the rebalancing plan of material expenditure by 245 million kuna, financial expenditures by 110. The framework and the total amount of expenditure, of course, has not been changed. And why did she have to redistribute to pay? It is precisely because the government inherited a signed collective contract which stipulates that the salaries of civil servants and substitutors, i.e. the basis, are increasing by 4.4%, and that is the obligation that had to be implemented in 2004 and there was not much of a particularly maneuvering space. So it also affected this so - mentioned redistribution. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38775	Thank you very much. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38776	Madam Secretary of State said this document was not a forger and was shocked by it. This 363-page document is a pure falsification and its name is forgeries, because this is not a proposal for an annual calculation of the state budget. And you say you're shocked. Not Madam Secretary of State, but the MPs are shocked by this. And maybe you'll be more shocked when this is being discussed by the State's Attorney's office and not by this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38777	Thank you very much. Maybe it's a shocked part of the MPs, not all of them. Let's just say I'm not shocked as a parliamentary representative. Correction of the incorrect allegation Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38778	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that Madam Secretary of State has said that the state budget is a falsification. That's not said. The state budget was passed by this Croatian Parliament and it is certainly not a falsification. Falsifitate is the calculation of that state budget, because what we got on the bench has nothing to do with what we in this Chamber debated and brought. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38779	A further correction to the incorrect allegations, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38780	It is incorrect that there are no increased operating costs. I've been here since July 27, 2004, when the budget rebalance was passed. The budget, the basic budget, was 81 billion kuna. The rebalance increased by a billion 945 million kuna and a new plan, so the rebalancing amounted to 83 billion 203 million 886 thousand kuna. Now, in this calculation under the 2004 redistribution plan, it amounts to 83 billion 452 million 433 million or 250 million more than the July 2004 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38781	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38782	It is an incorrect statement by the State Secretary that 600 million higher salary amounts to employees are the result of a collective contract alone. It would be transparent if today we had received data from new employees in 2004 and this uncontrollable new employment, so we would know that the increased number of employees is also the result of 600 million. It is also a startling lie when it is said that in the 7 months this House established the budget did not know about the collective contract and the number of employees. And maybe pure suggestion. What to say about people who say they don't know what to do if they have to cut the salary amount. Obviously not to hire but to check whether we have rational employees, whether we should go what everyone asks the responsible government to control the number of employees and reduce employees to the burden of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38783	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Madam Secretary of State. I am extremely sorry that there are no responsible people here in the image of Mr. Minister Vukelic or Prime Minister because I will talk about the Employment and Professional Rehabilitation Fund for Persons with Disabilities. So a few weeks ago, I participated in the work of a round table on young people with disabilities or called "Right to Move, Right to Choose". We should have discussed the right to choose accessible tourist destinations by accessible transition and everything that young people are interested in... Unfortunately, these turned out to be the exclusive themes of this population. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that round table was attended by 30 young people with disabilities. They're moving in a wheelchair or they're blind. These are students from our university centers, some from the degree of psychologists, social worker, the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty, Philosophy, Legal, Economic, etc. Most of them have spent their lives in various institutions, now living in dorms. I don't know how I would bring you closer to dealing with every day of these young people. From the problem of literature for blind students, about the absence of a personal assistant. We laughed at a tragic situation precisely at that rally when a blind student accompanied his colleague in a wheelchair. It really was a tragic situation for us. Believe me, in real life, it's not funny at all. The problem of transportation, i.e. regular departure to the lecture of those who do not live in Zagreb. Also crossing over a dozen steps at Law and Educational Rehabilitation College. You can only assume what amount of enthusiasm it is. It didn't take us long to get away from the main topic. What after all this? What about after college? And among other things, the main question was, what happens to the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of Persons with Disabilities? I couldn't answer them completely. However, by reviewing the annual budget, the 2004 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia has made many things clearer to me. The right to work and employment is a fundamental human right. For this very reason, the Rehabilitation and Employment Fund was established for persons with disabilities and adopted and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was amended. Unfortunately, nothing happened after that. No implementing act, no open job to be financed from that fund, has been trained by any person in new forms of work. The fund had 21 million kuna. Nine million kunas have been spent on Oriho, De-Split, Teko Pula, Suvenir Sirac and Zapos protection workshops. And that's okay. I can see why these workshops were divided into new ones by the end of 2004. And again, it's about a third of the fund to cover the eyes of the employees in the protection workshops, to make it look like someone saved them at the last minute, that the state is a charity donor, etc. I believe that it was not explained to them that it was their belonging money that provided them with the state budget for the last year and that they had been played and played for a year, manipulated with their jobs because they were not willing enough to create a Regulation on the allocation of funds from that fund. That the government is not so socially sensitive when it comes to fulfilling its financial obligations, that the rights of a disabled person are not exactly a stronger party and that it sees them as invisible people and thus participates in the discrimination of 10% of its citizens. I'm curious to know which body controls where the money was spent, whether the money was spent on purpose. It is known that the protection workshops in Croatia are in some strange legal situation and a very difficult financial situation. I wonder how many people with disabilities, users of this fund, are rehabilitated and rehabilitated through the fund last year, which is the program because the director should have given the programme, in short there are no directors or programs or the work of the fund. The Fund is obliged to publish a way of exercising its right to cash incentives and to monitor the correctness of cash incentives by means of competent administrative authorities in the employers. It's technically the right thing to do, and nothing's been spent. Please explain to me where these money is, or do you cloud our future by showing numbers that do not exist? Over 7,000 people with disabilities have been registered at the Employment Office. How people will be explained that there will be nothing in the near future from their employment, that they will continue to live on unemployment benefits, that they will not be integrated into the employment system. How are you going to explain to them that a tender has been opened for the appointment of the fund manager and is cancelled? Yes, in 2004, it's been a lost year, Madam Secretary of State, no matter how much you claim it, and I say it is, for people with disabilities waiting for work. Unfortunately, this happens in 2005. The fund isn't working yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38785	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. You can see that this document or how criminal legislation has the termology of the ID, because it will also be said, that something good would be here for the prime minister, and if anything was right there, there would be a minister, and here is the State Secretary who has turned her eyes on it anyway, that maybe she hears what some parliamentary representative is saying, because she's probably still in shock that there's the shock of the MPs themselves, and that's how she's surprised and disgusted, and we have a lot more right to be disgusted by what's substrative. 363 pages with incorrect quote, title – Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Or if the correct title is not the correct content, and if the content is correct then the title does not match it, because then this would be the proposal for an annual calculation of the state budget that the Government has adopted, because this is how it is in the Parliament, this kind of document that could be controlled has not been adopted. Here it was spoken, you were talking about transparency, this document is absolutely uncontrollable, it's not comparable, it's in this defiance, and in this it's qualifications of incorrect forged documents. There is no doubt that this should be figured as a document, as a public document, as a public document intended for public use, and it is not true, but it is falsified, but forged. Article 311 of our Penal Code speaks of counterfeiting a document and says, "Who makes a false right?" etc. "with the aim of using such a document as rights will be punished." If this had been done by one of the cashiers of the Agricultural Cooperatives at the Shop next to Benkovec on the same day, he would have been detained by all the slowness of the judiciary. So you can do this we really didn't hope for. With all the criticism that we're critical of the power, but I really think the government has lost every compass with this. And that is why I think you should consult and withdraw this document from the Croatian Parliament while it is for so long. I support my claims that the public really has cause for concern. The price of ignorance, incompetence, inability to implement reforms is worrying and Croatia is turning in the desired direction of development. On the contrary, you're offering us a candle horn here, a beautiful picture. That picture was supposed to be added to a law that was removed from the agenda so that you wouldn't hear or see it. Something you don't want to hear or see as protests in Mark's square. Minister Shuker boasted that the budget could not be controlled at all, that the budget would increase by 10 billion kuna, without increasing the existing and new taxes. Apparently, he was counting on a better charge, but they failed not only, but they first failed VAT revenues, excise duties. So exactly where huge funds were invested, 250 new people employed, a whole new institution formed, on the other hand the state administration devastated, no money and instead of strengthening tax administration offices formed a new institution, thrown 200 million kuna, and the result... Yeah, yeah thrown. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because the result of this is disastrous. So never worse charge than excise fees, never worse charge than VAT, but to that bouquet as said by a wonderful journalist, your budget failures should be completed and exactly that scandalous decision where you gave up dividend income and thus showed in which direction you're going. Therefore, the benevolent view of the capital of any kind of suspicious and uncontrollable, and on the other hand half a million people remain without relief with the cynical explanation of Minister Shuker that there are so many poor that they can't even be used with these benefits and that they are therefore unnecessary and unusable in our system. The income side is really worrying, it just shows your incompetence, your incompetence and in that technical sense to pick up something that you were legally obliged to pick up, which is what this hated institution was supposed to serve, but obviously it's not. The income side, therefore, the biggest minus is right here from VAT, from excise duties. The state is failing to collect 10 billion kunas, and how that budget hole will cover it up than it intended, it will permanently part with the assets that have not been sold out and for which you have accused the former government of having sold out everything. And it is known that when a man, from personal life, is known, when he finds himself in distress, in crisis, and when he sells out his assets to settle his already existing debts, that he is not strong on the market, that he is being blackmailed and that he will sell out for whatever reason. Here in this position you have brought Croatia, in this direction you have launched Croatia, and now when you have to face the basis of such an act in front of the Croatian public there is no prime minister, there is not even a minister, but they have given you that role. Of the concessions, 260 million kuna is less than planned. So, your planned incomes are neither stable nor at that level because we, as an opposition, were then saying that this budget would not endure, that it was inflatable. You probably knew that on your own because to such an extent he was overcrowded that here secretly hidden somewhere at 12 months you're bringing in a new budget, and this is a picture of a new budget. Please, there's already a fellow RADOSH here talking about this 100% advance you know what the results of the court case will be, so you're not in cahoots with the judicial authority, somewhere energy exactly within a kilowatt hour predicted how much will be spent. However, what is not to hide are just the execution of loans for large projects, here we boast about the arrangement of catasters and land books, here for all the effort to match data goes only 47%, as well for that large loan for not only catasters and land books but for the project of technical assistance in relation to bankruptcys made only 46%. So that's what this is about. Nowhere is there, therefore, where fellow Rados also spoke about where interest will be huge, where the principal needs to be returned and these projects are not realized in the necessary rhythm and what is actually for those needs to be raised credit precisely for a certain period of time and completed. So here's to conclude you have to face the fact that you've shown just all the incompetence and all the incompetence and this is just one document that you shouldn't have, believe me, I'm honestly saying you shouldn't have come to the Croatian Parliament and I really admire your courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38787	Thank you very much. Before I give my word, they asked for replicas, a correction even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we try to be moderate in expression. It is not necessary in Parliament to show too much heat, although the heat is sometimes good, especially in words as a hated institution, as a protest in Mark's square, I do not know what has to do with this debate here and in respect of respecting the Rules of Procedure which is respected in this way by the State Secretary of State from the Ministry, and it is not good to underestimate the State Secretary, no Secretary of State, because it is competent. Well, I would have warned you so much if you could use a more moderate dictionary, you would have my observation in advance for everything, not just for the left but also for the right side, before I gave them the right to speak with replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations. Let's bring this debate down to normal frames, and before and after, it's Friday and we have 24 speakers reported. I'd ask you to, perhaps a little pretentiously please, but it's my duty to ask you. Thank you very much. We have a replica, sir. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Which will first tell us the article that was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38788	You've already corrected this part, not corrected it, but warned of an insult by the State Secretary, I'd like to correct it. I'd say Article 214 has been injured. My colleague didn't stick to the subject, today we're talking about a proposal for an annual calculation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, and my colleague was talking about some me absolutely incomprehensible apocalypse I really didn't figure out what, some horror that was going to happen, and I really didn't realize what she was talking about. So, I think she hurt that article too, but this article also related to Mrs. Secretary of State's insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38789	Thank you, I've already warned about these words that are not in line with the subject that's being discussed, but let's move on. Mr. Jure Bithunjak was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Antičević de facto speaking here in the Croatian Parliament, either she actually or tried to give a pre-election speech so I thought I was on a kalargic rather than in the Parliament. In fact, in order not to in any way replicate her entire speech, I will say only certain things she pointed out here where she put as a major failure of this government, mentions the court, the state's attorney's office, etc., transparency amongst others mentioned. But in this way she forgot that, as a member of the former Government, 6 billion kuna was not recorded at all in the 2003 budget, therefore, as a member of the government, she does not have the right to share lessons as well as when it comes to transparency or analysis of the budget itself, which should in some way be understandable, readable, if possible to all citizens of Croatia or at least to all the users of the state budget. When it comes to the Financial Police, which she did not directly mention, but made it seem in some way that we formed that institution, or put it back into the tax system in tax control, she lost sight of the fact that the Financial Police had yet to start working this year and that the former government had abolished the financial police and thus indirectly contributed to a weaker charge for excise duties in 2004. This data when it comes to the State Budget Report, to take the opportunity to say that they are absolutely the same data from the Croatian National Bank, therefore it was necessary to take a look at the 2004 Croatian National Bank report and the 2004 State Budget Report to see that the data are the same and de facto there is no catastrophic situation, or even no cataclysm threatens Croatia and the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38791	Answer by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38792	It is true that the coalition government has abolished the Financial Police and will abolish it when it comes back to power. Because just when the financial police were abolished, there was never a higher amount of tax that was incomed and charged, and now we have a reverse situation. It's about the Financial Police themselves. Otherwise, you're talking here, and it's up to me that I haven't talked about the annual billing of the state budget, so on the subject, so who on the basis of this document can speak at all, and in that it's his crime that he can't discuss, because that's one thing, and this is another, and this thing should control that thing. We should compare. So there are hidden costs, there are fictional, i.e. new items that the Croatian Parliament has not discussed, and possibly some possibility of redistribution can be executed within the approved items.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38793	Thank you very much. The replica was also owned by Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38794	I personally believe that there is always a need to react when someone in this way demeans other people's work and these documents that I think are very high-quality, and in fact an advocate besides unargumented accusations and demeaning the government by saying about calculating the budget as a falsification and penalties provided for by those who are falsified and official documents between other insults and one agricultural cooperative that is necessarily taken as being doing bad and not knowing what she was doing in a particular year and clearly without any argument then the question is really asked. Because it is still an irrefutable fact that in 2004, therefore, all the negative trends that we have had to see have been stopped for four years by those with whom she was in power. And most importantly, for the first time, the debt of the overindebted country has been reduced. So, this government has a number of quality data that should be enjoyed by this Parliament and I think that no larma or such unargumented accusation but at least we need this level and insult both the government and the people who work in the government and who serve us the budgets and other documents in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38795	Even larma is not an adequate expression for this House. The reply to Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38796	How come all the negative trends are stopped? With all the negative trends you opened the way and in this direction you started Croatia. The growth of foreign debt banks of nearly 3 billion kuna in April from 5.9 to 8.8 billion kuna is the result of exactly bank debt and the main reason for debt growth is the country that was in debt to bankers on the domestic market and then, logically, banks were borrowing abroad instead. So much for that and those trends. As for your all-out defense as if Madam Secretary of State had given you power of attorney for her defense, it would have been better if you had defended us from her attack that said that here the government has been using high-tech techniques that are not similar to the House of Commons. If I did, I'd agree with you if you'd used high-tech techniques like you said you'd fabricate something you'd hide in no way. And I didn't insult the cooperative farm here. However, I warn the government that we should turn to the least agricultural community to see how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38797	Thank you very much. Madam representative, the secretary of state doesn't have to give anyone any powers of defence. Every MP has the right to speak, including what you said. Therefore, refrain from mentioning the State Secretary who came here on behalf of the Government in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you listening to me, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović? Do not use such words and humiliate or try to humiliate the secretary of state. You have no right to do that. I don't give any warning, but if you keep this up, then I'm gonna have to do it. You now have the correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38798	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, in a temperamental speech, the House of Representatives has a whole series of incorrect allegations but due to the shortness of time. It's incorrect what she said she failed the VAT revenues. VAT revenues are 6.2% higher than in the previous year. Inaccurate quote, never less revenue collection. Total revenues are 7.7% higher than the previous year, which means that the charge is incomparably better. A false allegation, Minister Shuker, uninterested, so he didn't come. Minister Shuker is now at a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Slovenia which is unusually important, which is scheduled at this time not by the merits of Minister Shuker but by a joint interstate agreement. It is incorrect that Ms. Martina Dalic, in her own words of technique, demeaned the Parliament because, under the techniques, she meant a method of calculation which is indeed one technical detail and here she speaks and discusses and implies that all the advocates who report for the word know this detail. And finally, I am not Mrs. Martine Dalic's representative, but Madam Secretary of State is a top expert proven in the area of budgetary actions not only on our own but at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38799	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38800	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Indeed, it has already become a practice that when something is put in front of this Croatian Parliament to debate as a subject that is difficult to defend against MPs, especially in front of the Croatian public, then ministers move away somewhere and that this task must then be carried out by the State Secretary. I think it is also today because this document is really hard to defend and it will be difficult to explain primarily to Croatian citizens why it is ignored in this way by the Assembly and why a document has been put before us today that has nothing to do with it and does not look anything like that document that the Croatian Parliament brought here a year ago. I should also like to say that I would prefer it and that I would appreciate Mr. Shucker more that he had the courage and guts to come here today before the Croatian Parliament and perform as confidently as he did a year and a half ago when he spoke here about the inability of the former government and former ministers to keep the finances in the way Mr. Schuker thought. However, this today's 2004 budget calculation shows that simply Mr. Shucker failed and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has failed in its entirety in no way at all. So, some of my predecessors have said that this is about the inability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to deal with current problems and indeed the budget and this calculation of the budget is the best document from which such a conclusion is to be read. It should be said that the government has not done anything for many years when the finances are concerned except that it has tried somewhere to exercise control of the Parliament over spending the funds and has also tried to avoid budget rebalances, and therefore one article has been passed, the Law on the implementation of the state budget allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to redistribute certain items within the budget itself, and we have then warned about the problem of such an amendment of the law. Unfortunately, though, most in this House have decided that this will be the case. This article did open the space to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for redistribution but did not open the space for such a fake document by the Croatian Parliament and did not give you any legal basis to spend more than what the Croatian Parliament here has decided and voted. After all, if this technique continues and this practice continues in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I think it would be good to save for the future budget energy and time equal to the people of the Government and the Ministry of Finance but also for us here in the Croatian Parliament, so it would be good to bring the budget in a way that only one final figure of how much money we intend to spend in the coming year and that everything else in the items is redistributing you within the Government because it's simply completely irrelevant to me or not you're kind of singing it the way you should have justified your own dissatisfaction. It is evident from this budget that the government has unfortunately failed to deal with any reform. The reforms the former government has launched have been halted. I will just say that in this budget it is visible that, for example, social care reform remained at zero kunas and projected and realised, therefore, one reform which was designed in a system that was time-consuming problems was simply stopped because there is no financial means for its implementation. There is no reform in the health care system either. In fact, Minister Shuker was here only a year and a half ago talking about the excessive debt in the health system, and says Mr Shuker, quote: "I'm going to raise those health debts to zero and start from some optimal beginning.". This downgrade to Mr. Shucker's zero is simply something that is not zero but three-and-a-half billion debt in the health care system. And therefore, in the very reform of health care, we were not encouraged by our awareness of the need to move something into that system, but unfortunately the IMF, which was one day when it came to the Republic of Croatia for that reason, the first control was really shocked by your lack of work, your ineffectiveness and said that it was high time to start something and work primarily when it comes to reform moves. You've done nothing in the same way with the reform of the pension system. We have properly warned you here that the new accounting formula is something that the state budget is unable to bear. Unfortunately, when you came to power, you started with very big promises, unrealistic promises, very large benefits, certain groups, and obviously you wanted to show the Croatian public that this government had previously been incompetent with what it was to be a government that simply didn't want to do something that it could have done. So she didn't want the pensioners to get much better pensions and secure a different calculation. ... were aware that the Croatian budget could not bear it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You, unfortunately, are only now that your budget has been broken on all your pension stitches and you realize that's not how it works and now you're forced to go back to the old accounting formula. You haven't done anything in the state administration when it comes to reforming and reducing the state administration, even if you've increased the number of employees and the efficiency of that increase is zero. In fact, in the financial police alone, you hired over 250 people, so new employment at the state administration. Unfortunately, all the charges, taxes and all that has failed, therefore, employment, new employment, a new burden on the state budget, thus reducing the resources for development is something which is, therefore, a bad, bad economic policy and instead of going to a reduction in the state administration, you have set out to increase it. So in this budget it is evident that there is an uncontrolled growth in expenditure, that you have shown all the inability to collect income, not from these existing funds, but from what is called the grey economy. In fact, at the very beginning of his term of office, Mr Schuker often spoke of the fact that he would end the grey economy unlike the predecessors who were unable to do so, that he would charge an important and significant amount of mining wealth in the Republic of Croatia, this budget shows that he failed to charge even what his predecessors managed to earn and let alone increase, therefore, income on those items. And finally something this country has been dealing with for a long time, and that's the theme of external debt. In this House, several discussions were held several times during the former coalition government, unfortunately not during the HDZ government, because you do not consider the problem a problem to be discussed. I must admit that I was found on the Croatian National Bank's pages that by the end of the year when it comes to external debt, reaching 80% of the GDP, it is a worrying figure for me, obviously not for you in the government. The indifference the former coalition government was dealing with, which was reduced in such a way that it was still paid in some decent time frames, up to about 120 days, we now climbed 350 days of default and re-launched an avalanche of not liquidity which in any case hit our economies the most. And finally, there were stories about the deficit, and I'd just like to say when we were here saying that the problem is not what the deficit is, but where the deficit is spent, whether in consumption or development. I'm glad that now the IMF gentleman has finally told you that they don't care what the deficit is, it's much more important that you implement reforms, that you do something in the country and that what the deficit doesn't go into consumption but that it goes into development, unfortunately for you it all goes into consumption. And finally, I think this government should get the courage to stop fooling itself and the people. To say the difficulties, to say that some cuts are necessary in Croatia, because we will not be better until these cuts are made because this policy leads to even greater poverty in the long term. I think it's a lot of nice stories and gestures, it's high time to take a job because in 2004 it's definitely a lost year for Croatia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38801	Thank you very much. Before I gave my word to the amendment's proposer, I thought there would be enough explanation for Mr. Andrija Hebranga who said that the media had been published for a long time and that the public would know that a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be held today in Brijuni. ... I didn't give you my word, Mr. Linic! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't get out of the bench, I'm giving you an explanation. As it is known that Mr. Ivan Shuker is a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government has been announced for several days and it was not known when this item will come to the agenda, then the Minister of Finance is at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at Brijuni held together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Since according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament enough to attend the session, the State Secretary gives answers, then here, as you can see, the State Secretary, Ms Martina Dalic, is sitting and has been repeated several times, so I have now explained why Minister Schuker is not at today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I'll give it to you on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38802	On behalf of the club, five minutes' break for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38803	You are required to give an explanation by the Rules of Procedure for which you are looking for a session of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38804	The Club's session is for the reason that you tried to justify Mr. Shuker's absence in front of the Croatian public. The act called the 2004 state reckoning in which all breaks are significantly different from the budget set out in June 2004 following the decision of this Assembly is an act that has not been adopted by this Parliament. What was the act the government amended by its rebalancing in 2004 at the 12th month. These are the figures we didn't know anything about. Such an act has not been the usual practice so far. That's why either Minister Shuker was supposed to sit here or the Croatian Parliament shouldn't have it on the agenda. Well, Mr. President, then try to ask in the presidency why this topic comes on the agenda if you know the minister won't be here. So we are trying to say that these are not figures, these are documents that talk about the misunderstandings of the Croatian Parliament and the Government. These are documents that talk about spending tax money. And with all due respect to Madam Secretary of State, the main problem is that we do not have a metric conversation with whoever made the decisions on changes to the items that this House has not established. So you can have an explanation, but we don't accept it. And that's why on behalf of the club we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38805	... give a brief explanation. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] First of all, I thank you for that explanation. However, Mr. Representative, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, all the conditions for discussion on this item of the agenda have been met with the fact that at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament there is a competent person and person who, according to the Rules of Procedure, is perfectly fine to give explanations regarding any point of the agenda covered by Ms. Martina Dalic. I challenge your right to underestimate you, so you insult Mrs. Martin Dalic because she is here by the Rules of Procedure to explain You have no right to do so either you or the other MPs because the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have not been violated. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have not been broken, and now that I cannot give less than 10 minutes, and you asked for 5, 10 minutes of rest, you will be able to speak again Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS. We're moving on with the session. On behalf of the SDP Club that requested a break, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38807	My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we would like to make it very clear to Ms. Secretary of State that we are neither insulting her nor insulting her, and we would like to respect her as an expert associate and ask her to advise the vice president that we are trying to offend her not to accept her. What the SDP Club wants to highlight is that the document we are currently discussing is one of the most important documents for the work of the Croatian Parliament. It is a document that says money is being spent, that the total money of taxpayers, sales companies and shares of their assets sold in 2004 has been spent. We are trying to talk about what are the effects of the way in which the entire state budget is available in 2004. In view of the enormous changes made by the Croatian government in 12 months without the knowledge of the public, we have estimated, without the knowledge of this Parliament, that at that moment, just for the sake of the importance of the topic, one of the members of the government, several members of the government, and what we were interested in was the Minister of Finance. And we respect the government's obligations, but it remains that the Croatian Parliament Presidency also knew. We accept and no one slows down business, I would say procedure in which the debate is evident that we can hold. But we want to point out that that's where we differ politically. The SDP as a party estimates that this debate should be a serious debate, especially because on the basis of these IMF calls, it calls on political parties in the Republic of Croatia to gather and try to change these trends. He invites us, strangers invite us and we say, and what are we going to buy out when we are here today discussing a document that has to sort of change us in behavior and there are no policy makers in 2004. There's a person who's responsible, an expert who can give us an explanation. For SDP, that is why we are trying to point out the importance of the debate, the importance of the presence of people in this. But we accept, the parliamentary majority does not want to discuss this subject, I would say in the sense that this document brings us together, that this document connects us in our activities in 2005 and 2006. We accept this message and continue the debate because the Rules of Procedure procedures are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38808	Thank you very much. No one prevents the Parliament and the SDP from seriously discussing this item of the agenda, nor has anyone prevented anyone from discussing it, although I have warned that a little more moderate dictionary is being used both on the left and on the right. And secondly, the parliamentary majority wants a debate and it is taking place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I repeat once again the repeated call for the Minister's presence to disqualify the indirect lady, an attempt to disqualify the secretary of state. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we are working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and there is no reason why this debate should not continue to take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I owe it to the secretary of state before I give my word to Mrs. Secretary of State, we have two corrections to the incorrect allegations of the last debate. It is Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic, Mr. Bitunjac and Mrs. Lelic, in that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38809	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, whoever knows Secretary Shuker will realize that it's absolutely wrong to assume that Mr. Shucker doesn't have the guts. Finally, if he were here, I think rhetoric would be different. Minister Shuker, I repeat, I do not know which time, is at a meeting with the Government of neighbouring Slovenia to correct what your party president has unauthorized and irresponsiblely signed as former prime minister. That's one thing. ... Secondly, your party colleague has already referred a parliamentary question once, and you've all got benches on the number of employees in the state administration. [[Applause.]] You've seen how small he's been. But it's impossible to reduce everything that you took at the end of 2003 when you realized you'd lost power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38810	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Opačić, speaking of liquidity, said that the time or time limit of payment of the state according to the obligations to comply with its obligations had risen from 120 days to 350 days. It's just not true, and I don't know where that data came from. The report behind this, which is the Report of the Croatian National Bank, is decided there when it comes to liquidity and externality, when it comes to liquidity, the internal liquidity that it is solid, that it is not worrying, and these 350 days when it would be true it would be a disaster. However, I, in neither daily press when it comes to economic movements, nor in some magazines when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce or others, have I encountered such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38812	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs. Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Anticevic, said she was trying to show that the state or government is not fulfilling its obligation to pay, so she said the drugs are being re-paid within 350 days. I can tell... they were paid with December 6th and then another three weeks. So they came in 150 to 180 days, and during the period of indeed 2000 to 2003, the drug pay-outs were common. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38814	As far as I'm concerned, I tolerate the corrections of an incorrect quote that have nothing to do with the corrections of the left-hand side like that, so you can testify to me. And don't remind me of one case now and then you cross over 10 or 50 other cases. I'm asking the secretary of state who asked for a word, Mrs. Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38815	So allow me since on several occasions the name of the document is said to be guilty and that since the name of the document is wrong that it is a crown argument, that the whole document is incorrect, falsified, unprofessional, incompetent, etc. The name of the document is regulated by the Budget Law, Article 128, which states in paragraph 5 that the Ministry of Finance tells the Government of the draft annual accounts. And in paragraph 6, the government says it is referring to the Parliament of the Annual Accountation Proposal, which is also logical. Because if the government were to direct the Parliament's annual reckoning, it would indicate the final act. Therefore, the government knows how to propose itself to the Parliament and it is regulated by law in these articles. Thus, this fact itself shows how unargumented, unfounded and objections about counterfeiting, about inaccuracy, about error, because the state administration, civil servants do not create counterfeits but report facts. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38816	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38817	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As well as many of my predecessors and predecessors, I cannot support the adoption of this proposal for the annual accounting of the state budget for 2004 because, with everything that has already been pointed out here, there has been a fraud because this is about the calculation, but it is not about the calculation of the budget that was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. This is about the fraud of us MPs, especially you parliamentary majority colleagues who voted in favour of the budget that was voted in June 2004. Where's that political scam hiding? This scam is being made by respected colleagues, it hides that those figures that we, i.e. in the Croatian Parliament, have nothing to do with those figures that we are counting here. The secret of these frauds is hiding, and it's devastating for us in the House, right in the law that you of the parliamentary majority voted here again. It reminds me of those not so long ago, unfair and unfair processes and procedures in privatisation and conversion that have ruined companies and people without a job and which have been as much as this law-abiding. Therefore, the parliamentary majority that has passed the law that allows fraud I think it should also be held accountable for the fraud. What actually happened here. Everything was fine until July 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget, then a budget rebalance was adopted in July, but at the same time the Law on the implementation of the budget, which gives the Government, legally but not exactly legitimately the right, I repeat the questionable legitimacy, to change and end the budget itself. Our government has been using this right extensively, very extensively, and since July, past Parliament's will seven times changes that budget that was voted in this House. So our government makes a decision to redistribute the funds planned in the state budget, namely the document, May 5th, then September 1st, then September 22nd, and October 20th, then November 24th, and finally to save everything until the end of December 31st. It is not about technicals that seven times the budget that this Croatian Parliament has adopted has been changed. One example of what this is really about, I'm going to be the example of one ministry and just one of those seven changes, it's about this last change and the redistribution of 31. 12th and Ministry of Education. My colleagues and colleagues, did you know that by this decision, the government has reduced half a million kuna funds for making studies and standards to change the system of education, that 400,000 kunas have reduced the funds to prevent school addiction, that the government is past the will of this Parliament and all of you here who have supported the budget by a million and 800 thousand kunas reduced funds for education of children of Croatian citizens abroad. Did you know that by 400,000 kuna, the government has reduced funds to prevent violence in schools, that the government has reduced funds for the establishment of external evaluations in education, that, for example, the government has reduced funds for 200 thousand kunas past the Parliament's will and beyond the budget adopted to promote a programme of work with gifted students, that the government has reduced funds for a project of education reform by 900 thousand kuna. The Government, for example, has reduced the programmes for the modernisation of vocational education, that the government has completely abolished three items, the development of sport studies, the development of standards for the construction of sports facilities and the adaptation of objects in accordance with the law on the prevention of misbehaving of fans. That, for example, the Government, by 8 and a half million kuna, past this House's will, has reduced the resources for basic education and adult demarcation, the time does not allow me to highlight all these items, but the fact remains, it is a document of the Government, which is called the decision to redistribute funds, that the government, beyond the will of this Parliament and the voted budget, has reduced funds. At the same time, while reducing these items, we have an increase in one item, it is an increase in salary funds. It would have been okay if it hadn't been okay at the same time, but it would have been as acceptable and explained as it was, at the same time, an increase in wages, but it didn't mean an increase in wages. It was that first the government had bad plans for wages, when some of us and I were counting on it when we were making a budget, that the funds for wages would not be enough, we were declared as quotes to incompetent critics. Of course, there wasn't enough money to pay and then the government is redistributing and instead of providing a better payment from the revenue side for the pay that she didn't do, because obviously that's why she wasn't able because I can't believe she didn't want to, we end up taking the funds from these items that were planned for development and hitting on clean budget spending. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, but is becoming a paradigm of the government's actions, which clearly has no development projects, which is obviously an uncontrolled cost growth and uncontrolled consumption growth. And it's colleagues and colleagues and it's a very simple conclusion, everything just wasn't promised to launch Croatia and I don't think it's too much to say that it's also her stopping in development. Because of this, not because this is about a document that looks great in principle, all indices are 100, but because this is about the fraud of MPs, which is about the calculation of something that is not the state budget that this Croatian Parliament has brought in, I will not be able to support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38818	Thank you very much. I'll ask you one more time don't have to accept of course not to use some words regardless of which side. 8 times you mentioned the question of the word fraud, which is not exactly a word that could be mentioned so often in the Croatian Parliament. There's a correction to Mr. Andri Hebrang's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38819	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, as you yourself said to accuse the government of cheating on her, but I am not correcting an insult but an incorrect allegation. This government did not cheat with this calculation of the state budget because it was built under the Law and amendments to the law on the implementation of the state budget adopted by this House, the insult of the Government is offended by this House, therefore it is incorrect. And secondly, it's incorrect from a whole series of allegations that I can correct because this government didn't plan well on pay. The government inherited the budget of the first quarter of the previous government and did not include any salary funds, which they raised before the elections for demagogue reasons. Therefore, we had to correct the failure of the previous government which in the first quarter did not include these expenditures in the budget. Otherwise all the insults that go, 25% goes to the previous government because it had the first quarter of the budget, not our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38820	It's Madam Representative Jagoda Martic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State, your colleagues and your colleagues. I, for this proposal for an annual accounting of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia which is ahead of us cannot, regardless of your warning, Mr Vice President, say anything but fraud. It is cheating on us in the Croatian Parliament as well as the entire Croatian public. Why do I say that? So because this is not the document this Croatian Parliament voted for in the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, that is, when the budget is rebalanced. The government took the right to redistribute within the budget, although they have the right under the Law on the implementation of the state budget which we of the SDP Club did not support when it was being adopted in this Assembly, but these redistributions were made too often and in not so small amounts, so now we actually have a new budget before us which this Parliament did not vote. Practically, if we look at the explanation of the proposal for an annual calculation of the state budget in part of the expenditures and expenditures of the state budget, there is no section in which no redistribution is mentioned. So finally some new items appear which were not in the budget rebalancing and some items have been deleted. We of the SDP Club have repeatedly pointed out that this government does not have a development strategy. And this document that we're discussing today is in favor of the claim that this government is still wandering. It's been a year and a half since the start of the constitution of this government, means more than enough time for any initial discrepancies to stop and start with concrete work and finally see the results of this work, and that the government does not have a development strategy many data tells us so economists have been warning for a long time that the country's economic picture is getting worse. The Council of the Croatian National Bank has also joined them, which has sent a warning that indicators are not good and promising, so the CNB Council points out among other things, that is to slow down economic growth, which is to warn data from several sectors, higher inflation rates, continued appreciation pressures on the course, and short-term debt of the state that is trying to bridge the gap between budgetary income and expenditure developments. Furthermore, the fact is that foreign debt is growing. At the end of last year, it was 82% of GDP, according to CNB. At the end of April this year, gross foreign debt was at 577m euros, more than at the end of last year. It means it's still growing. At the end of April this year, foreign debt reached 23.3 billion euros, which is the level foreseen for the end of the year. On page 314, it is noted that the public debt of the Republic of Croatia with HBOR debt was at the end of 2004 of the 110.2 billion kuna of 53.2% of GDP and increased by 10.1 billion kuna. On several occasions, it is noted that the government's intention to rely more on domestic sources in borrowing is to point out that 65.2% of the total public debt increase in 2004 was achieved on the domestic financial market while the ratio was opposite in 2003. So what's the difference? Whether we are in debt at home or abroad because we know that the banks in Croatia are in the hands of foreigners. Thus, regardless of increasing government debt in the country, the fact is that foreign debt of banks and other sectors continues to grow. That this government does not have a clear strategy as well as how it works and the fact that no measures have yet been taken to date that will have a decisive impact on the reduction of the budget deficit from last year's 4.9% to 3.7%. Due to the delay in these measures, i.e. because these measures were not adopted and applied at the very beginning of this year, it is questionable whether this year's deficit will be maintained at 3.7% of GDP level, as is the case in agreement with the IMF. And now the government is rapidly looking for ways to increase budget revenues, so it's again announcing the introduction of stamps, this time stamps on coffee. It is suggested that the state could reach for the introduction of new excise duties, but which could be easily charged, and electricity, water and telephony could be found on impact, and perhaps the government remembers that the citizens of this country are still breathing, so oxygen consumption may be introduced. All this points to bad planning, to the stychical problem-solving, to the connection, to the reach of fire-fighting measures. Finally, for these very reasons, the IMF delegation also sent a clear message, the elections have passed, it is high time to take the job and to seriously and systematically start solving the internal life problems of the citizens of this country. That the guaranteed card has long expired shows the decline in support of the citizens of the government's work which falls from month to month, so the latest surveys show that 58% of citizens generally do not approve of the government's work, and even 73% of citizens believe that things are going wrong in Croatia. It seems to me that this annual calculation of the state budget was made in a way that first established the implementation in 2004, and then went on redistribution to bring this implementation into line with the planned funds for certain items of the budget and then most often we have an execution of 100%, 99%, 98%, rarely below 90%. But there are some deviations, so here's just to warn some items at the Ministry of Health, so it's seen that it was being saved to improve health infrastructure, so the execution of 78.76% of these business facilities is 84.70%, and medical and laboratory equipment is 65.93%. Then the item for the renewal of old equipment is the execution of 42%, and often we, particularly, are MPs from the opposition in this assembly, cautioned about the poor equipment of our health institutions, the weariness and obsolescence of existing equipment, so it is not clear to me why the government has found fit to save precisely on this item. And it has also been saved to preserve the improvement of women's reproductive health and to spend only 75% of the funds provided for in this programme. Then we have a significant increase in execution of as much as 259% in the item that reads "other associations". It would be interesting to hear an explanation of what is meant by other associations and which is why current donations in money are spent by 264% compared to the planned funds. It is also saved on the prevention of alcoholism in young people, but for early detection, treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts instead of planned 361 thousand 595 kunas were spent as much as 4 million 426 thousand 510 kunas. I'm glad the ministry didn't save it, but it would be interesting to hear what caused this drastic overrun. There are also some programs that refer, which are not implemented at all, or the execution is zero kuna, and so, for example, this applies. all programmes related to the prevention of HIV disease are zero everywhere, and I really can't imagine that these programmes haven't been implemented because it's out of the mind that today it's not suitable to implement these preventive programmes or maybe they've been implemented in the context of some other projects, but it's not visible from this document. And not to mention, all in all, I can't support this document that's ahead of us, and I think it's about time that this government gets serious and starts solving the life problems of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38822	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38823	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like an incorrect quote that is repeatedly repeated by every debater, which is that it is a fraud. A fraud is an illegal act that has all the characteristics of an illegal act, and all these same debaters, and also a colleague said that the whole bill was done according to the law. True, she said she did not vote for him but he is still binding on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38824	Thank you. And a second correction by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38825	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Madam Representative has said a series of inaccuracies and I will again for a short period of time as long as I have to the red lamp. She said it was being saved on the infrastructure because it wasn't spent the entire projected amount in refurbishing the old equipment. It was not saved, but simply in the procedure of a public tender several participants have repeatedly filed complaints, the tender is delayed, it goes to all the legally prescribed instance and wastes time and simply these tenders could not have been completed until the end. An appeal report, so the ministry isn't responsible for it. Secondly, for preventive programmes, the execution codes are zero. Zero is because these programmes are financed from a global fund from which each donation has been spent until the last June, but according to the accounts, the final global fund does not allow these expenditures to be entered into the state budget and therefore zero is entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38826	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38827	Your Honor, your honor, the Secretary of State! Unlike my predecessors, my colleagues and colleagues who mostly expressed dissatisfaction with the terms of the debate, and also with the representatives of the government, here I will express my satisfaction. I think this is one big shift because we usually talked about the budget, the budget rebalancing or the implementation of the state budget in the afternoon and the hours of the night. So, this move is already in the morning debate, and I think it's one big shift. And I think we need to be happy with the little steps. I'm a little surprised that we didn't know that there were MPs and from the vice president's table we were warned that we should have known from the media that today was the historic session of the two governments in Brijuni. I did know that from the media. I'm surprised that the Presidency didn't know that, and that it couldn't coordinate, so we have an agreement on the implementation of the state budget when a minister or another representative of the government might have the opportunity to come here for this debate on the implementation of the state budget. There was time during this week, but I don't think anything would have happened if we had discussed this topic at the beginning of the next session and even if we had discussed maybe at the moment what would be most appropriate if we had received a state audit report on the finding, a budget for last year. Then we could discuss these two documents. So, this debate is obviously a technical debate that doesn't have some core nature, and I really think that we could have discussed it today, maybe some law that is more urgent, that needs to be passed and not having this debate, so when it comes to this discrepancy in Mark's square, I guess these fences that work here haven't managed to make communication better, so we haven't been able to coordinate when Minister Schuker would be able to attend this debate. I'm sure he'd want to be here the whole time. But it should be said, therefore, that the debate on the implementation of the state budget according to our rules of procedure is not just a debate or a debate on a document. Hence, Article 176 accurately states that this debate has another substance. It is said that the debate on the implementation of the state budget and on the basis of the breakdown of the work programmes achieved, the basis of the policy for the next period or directions for budgeting can be established and the conditions and criteria for financing the tasks of state bodies and organisations and for financing other needs in the country can be established. So we could do all this and we can still do this during today's debate on the implementation of the state budget. Obviously, we won't do it because obviously it's just a matter of getting the form done, satisfying an article of the Budget Law, that the Parliament discusses the implementation of the state budget. I'm not gonna use these hard words my colleagues used to say before me about that, but I'm asking myself what we're discussing today. This is the budget, the state budget for 2004, these are the changes and additions to the 2004 budget, this is the report on six months of this, and then we had this, and then we had an amendment to the budget law, and now we got this. And that has nothing to do with anything. Now I don't know what to compare it to. Look, I've been trying really hard to compare it to. I tried this, I can't. I tried this, I can't. I tried this, I can't. I have nothing to compare it with so you can see how the government worked last year. Whether that's what I'm not gonna say or not, they're gonna judge the public. As the government has done, it doesn't matter if we make sure that the objectives of economic policy are achieved here or not because that's what citizens need to decide on. You know, we can bring here by emergency procedure a decree that prosperity has been brought to Croatia but that people will not believe us. Now, what could the government do? The government is based on Article 40a. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget could do the following. In order to ensure payment of funds for salaries and other remuneration of beneficiaries and service of public debt, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will implement, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the redistribution of funds between items intended for wages, material expenditure, subsidies, aid and the acquisition of non-financial assets and in the framework of the budget of planned funds for salaries, fees, material expenditure, subsidies, aid and non-financial acquisition of non-financial assets. Is that what the government was doing? I'm afraid not. That is, the government has done all that it says in Article 40a. But she did a lot more. The government really thought it was article 40a. gives the right to redistribute whenever he remembers because if only the conditions were that due to pay and receiving the users and service public debt could work redistribution then there was no reason to do so seven times in four months. It's impossible that seven times in four months we had to do it, that we couldn't plan the pay, that we couldn't know how we'd have to service the public debt. Apparently, the government thought it was Parliament and that it could bring budget rebalancing. When she took it for granted, it was correct that in this report, which does not speak about what is called, she tells us what she really did in relation to what parliament said she was doing. So it was supposed to mark here exactly where and for which reasons there was redistribution, where it was impossible to service public debt, so it was necessary to change and redistribute. Where it couldn't pay the wages, so it had to do the redistribution, not what we got here to have items that were zero, that we had items that were the execution table. But, of course, those items that are the execution that are not far away from what we brought back at the beginning of the year. I agree that there was a temporary financing of the first quarter, but remember the debate over the budget rebalancing when it was said here that we now considered the situation, saw everything, planned it. And the government could have done it. The government could rebalance the budget at the 11th month before this Parliament, not to violate the law, and to redistribute it when it comes to her. Because what she redistributed certainly does not belong to Article 40a. The promotion of exports has been reduced, encouraging local development of projects has been reduced. The development of business centres' activities has been reduced and you see how much has been reduced from 6 million to 5, 5 million and 200. It's almost done. The development of entrepreneurial incubators is almost a abolished item. This is not all said here in Article 40a. And I'm pretty sure there was no need not to subsidize and encourage local development and entrepreneurial incubators so that we could pay someone a salary. Nobody's gonna be able to say that, they won't be able to say that. It is also an encouraging development of information technologies, the development of the Internet kiosk network, scholarships and trusts, cooperation under international agreements, the construction of land books, etc., etc. The construction of land books certainly does not belong to Article 40a, and I am convinced that because we are not involved in paying the wages or service of public debt, we have to set aside the funds for less to settle land books. What's strange is that the government is 31. 12. adopt the final budget rebalancing and make a decision on the payment of funds from the reserve. Well, couldn't she just put it all in the budget? Who stopped it? But she even had to tell some of the municipalities strangely that they needed to deplogate the accounts and that they needed some funding for the current funding. The same day imagine making a decision on unforeseen expenditure and for budget rebalances. Well, if it's anything else, it's extremely unserious. And I'm really interested in what's been going on in this, I'm finishing up, in last year's state audit. And when we had no need to discuss it in accordance with Article 100, with the content of Article 176, then at least we could wait for the state review to hear what she was thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38828	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Franjo Arabovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38829	Your Honor, Mr. President. Before I correct the incorrect allegations, I'm going to say about this laugh, the laughter after every presentation, it seems to me to be underestimating this House. That's what the person in front of him did. And I am correcting the incorrect assumption, when Mr. Mršić said there was no competent person in this House to discuss this proposal, so he called on Mr. Shuker and if Mr. Shucker were here then he would call on Sanader, that Mr. Sanader was here, too, we don't know where he would end up in the summoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38830	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38831	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Mršić said this is what he doesn't want to say. And I'm saying it's incorrect because this is by law and according to the law passed by this House, so what he's trying to say about this isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38832	Dear Representative Ivan Lončar, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38833	Well, in his very energetic speech, counterpart Mršić seemed to have said the following in his very energetic speech. This is a major shift compared to the current budget debate, the implementation of the state budget, because this debate takes place early in the afternoon as opposed to the previous discussions that were late in the evening. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what. That's not true at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the more important laws, legislative proposals and documents during the time when the party peasant coalition was in power we began to discuss around midnight, after midnight and late in the morning. The only thing that's true is they'd always vote in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38834	Thank you very much. Otherwise, at 5:30 yesterday, I was invited by all club presidents and at that meeting at 17:30, the topic was whether and how to discuss the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Assembly and, within that part, at the proposal of the SDP Club President, Mr Ivica Racan and was present in the second part and the Vice-President of the Club Mr Slavko Linic, the other club presidents agreed that today the debate not on this Bill Proposal, the Amendment and the Completion of the Law on Public Collection rather than on the annual accounting of the state budget. The Prime Minister was present, and we all unanimously concluded that this debate should begin today with full knowledge and knowledge that a joint session of the Croatian and Slovenian governments is being held today. Dear Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38835	Mr. President, to be more clear, the majority of us agreed not to have a bad proposal for a law on public gathering, and as a consequence of that, we said, it would be this, so it wouldn't be clear that we chose what would happen, but it was an agreement to avoid a bad proposal for the Public Assembly Act. So much for the public. Now allow me to continue to discuss this document in person. I will first of all turn to one item in this document which then implies a series of negatives in macroeconomic sizes. And that item is called the revenues of the state budget. The revenues of the state budget are one of the reasons for poor performance of the government's work, one of the results of new responsibilities, one of the results of the growth deficits from at least 1% to 2% of the state budget and unfortunately one of the results I would say less and less control over the area of the gray economy. And I may not be wasting much time on just one very important fact that we discussed in this House for a long time in 2004. And that's the fact that tax policy should be just a beating or a tax policy should be and... And I can't forget the debate in which Minister Schucker has made it clear, I'll collect tax revenues with a beating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's simply an energetic and rude performance towards taxpayers. And that's the method I'm going to raise funds for. This is what Mr Shuker made very clear, how he would change how he would educate both in the end and in the proposal of the Financial Policy Act. However, we can see that certain rates of excise duty have been increased to tobacco and alcohol, and we have not received the results of the increased revenues in the planned amount that would allow us to breathe slightly easier if we cannot control the expenditure. But which is another devastating fact we can see. A lot of frequent discussions in 2004 were led around income tax reliefs. The huge lack of confidence in relief resulted in the government of the Republic of Croatia proposing a reduction in income income income, because it estimated that in 2003 it would pay enormous amounts and that we would have fewer incomes. And here in the Budget we can see the only item in income that has exceeded the planned amounts are income from income tax. What does that mean? That the moment we threatened the citizens of the taxpayers, we sent them a message: "Citizens of Croatia this is your money, but you have the right to make it easier." If you have housing loans, if you are being treated, if you are teaching children, you are entitled to relief. And that's what we wanted to increase tax discipline, tax liability. It is evident that this policy has yielded results, but what happened to us in 2004. The government has significantly reduced it. It's significantly reduced. And what can we conclude? Yes, it was tax relief that stimulated citizens to fight black labor because they benefited from such tax reliefs. They stimulated citizens to report their housing relations if they were tenants and all that. And we have results. Do we see that? Obviously not because we don't care. And that's the battle for taxes. This is where we in this Croatian Assembly should show where we have made a few mistakes. And it is evident that we were not aware enough of the facts, which means going with reliefs or incentives to tax bonds to ensure greater incomes. Of course, with the lack of expenditure, with this tax policy and the organisation of tax services, we have received two billion kunas of greater loss and necessary funding of the state budget. And we've come to over four billion. Two billion is just one percent of the deficit, by the way. 1% of the deficit. I'm afraid we've achieved that with this kind of behavior. And now we come to the question of deficits. And if you remember the "ope" of our conflicts, is the 4-and-a-half-percent deficit a tragedy and trauma for the Republic of Croatia? Because we were trying to say, "No. 4 and a half percent deficit allows the Republic of Croatia to develop, battle for development, battle for investment, battle for the growth rate of at least 5% we need. It was another stumbling block between me and you that we discussed in this House about the rate of growth. And of course 4 and a half percent of the deficit of this kind which means cost-covering, the coverage of the loss is too much deficit, but 4 and a half percent of the deficit that was supposed to go into development projects wouldn't be too big. And 5%. And the latest statement from the IMF that says, "I don't care about the deficit right now." The important thing is that this deficit is developing and it is important that you implement reforms. Do we realize that we must return to the issue of the deficit in Croatia and can we use it to raise the growth rate? And why do we care about the rate of growth? If we invest in the economy, if we fight for this economy, if we open up the investment market in Croatia, then we will drop the number of unemployed. We're going to have a growing number of employees. We'll have safe wages. But most importantly, the two biggest problems, and these problems are being talked about the excessive share of pensions and the entire pension system in the GDP will fall. We'll be able to talk differently about pension debts and pension growth. But also health reform, which is too high a percentage in the GDP, is too small per capita. We can only change that with a growth rate with development. And we have to fight for that growth rate. That's what we need to reopen the debate. It's not 4 and a half percent problem. Now it's the IMF, everybody. And we set ourselves a goal of having to be below 4 percent for this year. For what? And now that we've got overruns for expenses, because of the lack of expense, we're going down with our shoulders instead of wondering why we don't have that excess because of the investment. Gentlemen of the road have stopped. In 2004, the continuation of the Split-Ploče stock did not begin. He could have started. In 2004, although money was made, loans were a construction operation to continue the second route, other highway routes to Rijeka were not continued. 15 days ago, the papers were open. It's all about operations, money, jobs, projects. It's been waiting a year and a half. That's the facts. Shall we talk about our biggest problem, the standard of road maintenance? He was shot down in 2004. The quality of highway maintenance is down. Shall we talk about the railroad? Well, you don't have to talk about the railroad. The railroad will show its ugliest problems in the next year. Over the next year. The halted development of Croatian railways at the moment has problems not only problems with the lack of work for Končar, for Djur Đakovic, I would say of the chavovečka radio car, if I were not talking about Gredel. The railroad has a problem with the extra people. Why? The railway modernisation project has been abandoned. Restructure. And with everything we don't invest in the Railways anymore, we have a billion kunas of unpaid bills. A billion kunas. And we want to go back to the question of what was the problem of the railway 0.30 lip of the larger excise duty. And we won't charge the drivers at 0.30. But with two and a half kunas, we've been burdening ourselves to raise prices. Instead of redistributing VAT, instead of redistributing INA to additional taxes for extra profit at high oil prices, we re-distributed domestic oil. These are the things we should talk about today. We can't talk. We don't want to talk. And these are the questions that mean, I'd say a change in our behavior next year. I am sorry that the time has elapsed, but there will probably be opportunities on another document related to the budget and financial size of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38836	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38837	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Linic said the gray economy is on the rise. Well, it illustrates a smaller charge of excise duties and so on. Well, I think you should make it clear and loud that excise duties and they couldn't have been bigger because the fact that there's a lot less drinking, that's what you're saying when you're looking for an amendment to the Transport Act. So if you drink less, there'll be less excise duty, and I don't know if you've noticed that a smoker is even less important than in your day. Read a little, watch the polls, and also in the schoolyards away, far fewer children smoke than they've ever been before. Well, according to that, I think you should think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38838	Thank you. Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38839	So speaking of the concept of economic policy and fiscal policy, I would say it is necessary to bear in mind that the economy does not function as an accounting identity. Accounting identity for calculating gross domestic product truth says that this is C + G + I + X - M is equal to gross domestic product. This shows that any increase in national consumption in G, in government consumption, contributes to the growth of gross domestic product in current or state investment consumption. In the short run, however, it should be borne in mind that the state also acts in different ways on the ability of the economy to grow. Croatia acts in its size that causes the necessary tax burden, which then also causes distortions in the functioning of the private sector. Croatia is therefore famous and is one of the countries that has almost the largest public sector in Europe. It could therefore be said that the requirements and suggestions that through further increase in state activity that this is the right path to economic growth have its own counter arguments, as this means further increasing the size and size of the state sector and moving measured by the share of the state sector in the gross domestic product according to European records. And that limits the ability of the private sector to grow. The state, the experience of economic and economic theory and the experience of other countries, shows us that where the state is a fundamental generator of growth where the private sector is stifled that effective growth has not been achieved there. In our particular case, this also means taking care of the impact of deficits on financial aggregates, on financial flows in the economy, on interest rates, on the availability of private sector financial resources. There may be a higher deficit in the short term, but then it also means that there is less resources available for the private sector, there are more interest rates, which, as a result, is again affecting the reduced ability of economic growth. Unfortunately, the state, therefore, does not function as an accounting identity. I must return to the question of investments in the case of Croatia. It is indisputable that the state must make infrastructure investments, that this has a positive effect on economic growth and therefore certain projects that have started at the time of the previous Government or continued from the time of Prime Minister Matesha's Government are still highly ranked in this budget and are ending. However, it is also a fact that projects are being completed. As for further road construction and construction in other areas of Croatia, I would like to warn that the government has adopted a construction plan for the next four years, which it predicts in HAC and HC investments in the next four years over 28 billion kuna. As long as it was 27 billion kuna in the period until 2004. So the state will retain this investment effort, but it must also find ways to help and support the development of the private sector and the stability of the entire economy. It is therefore the need to reduce the deficit, to reduce the negative financial effects that the large state sector has and can have on the financial sector and on financial flows and in general the financing conditions of all other operators in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38840	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38841	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. And this is one that state investments limit and reduce the development of the private sector. In reverse, state investment in railways, gas, road construction, electricity and water employs the private sector and essentially enables growth, development and investment of the private sector. So it's driven by infrastructure and energy, the private sector. And secondly, what I want to correct is not to reduce the state deficit, but to increase the government's deficit due to consumption and decrease due to development. And we're talking about a rate of 4 and a half to 5% and it's undeniable and it's not problematic, but now it's problematic because it's a consumption deficit. If the deficit were also developing, the government would control development, encourage development and stop consumption. And that's why the story of the minor deficit was a lullaby for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38842	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38843	Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State and Assistant Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. When budgeting, we always say that this is the most important document to be projected, regulates development policy for one year in the country. Thus, the debate on the accounting or implementation of the state budget should give an assessment of how this policy was implemented. When we made a budget for this past year, in 2004, it was supposed to be the first budget, or the first year of the plan to launch Croatia, and the achievement of a guarantee card so important that it entered the election campaign and in the first year of the term of office. At that time, explaining the objectives that should be achieved by this 2004 budget, President Sanader said the first objective is to consolidate finances, that the second objective is to increase the subsidy to the economy, that it is to fight unemployment, increase pension and social contributions and an active pro-European policy. When we discussed budgeting for six months already, we saw that many items were not done with any lip or kuna, so their index was zero or just a few percent. There was therefore a need for redistribution of the budget, i.e. the rebalancing of the budget. But by then, it was estimated that it would not be enough and therefore it was also in the amending budget law. So by analysing these five goals, we can say that they are almost not achieved in any way. Looking at the consolidation of finances, we have a deficit that is greater than planned. Now he is trying to relax a little compared to 2003 because we have then promoted the modified method of showing the deficit of the state budget and he has significantly insisted on it by the minister. I was expecting that in this year, with this methodology which is... Therefore, according to the methodology of the cash principle, the budget law also has a deficit according to the modified methodology, but in a way that was shown in 2003 to demonstrate all outstanding liabilities by different users of the state budget. And not like this, we get some kind of 4.9% figure. It's unacceptable and it's just probably we can figure out how to hide things actually right. Why do we say this isn't a 2004 budget calculation? I read part of the Constitution relating to the state budget and our Budget Law, so I'm going to quote here. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution says the Croatian Parliament brings state budget, Article 90(1). The constitution says state revenues and expenditures are determined in the state budget, so the one that brings the Croatian Parliament. And Article 112 says the Government of the Republic of Croatia only proposes a state budget and a final account. We're a little out of language compared to the Budget Law. And what does the Budget Law say? In Article 4, point 9, "the budget is adopted by the Budgetary Assembly for the financial year corresponding to the calendar year before the beginning of the year for which it applies". Article 30(5) states: "The government determines the draft budget and the consolidated budget and delivers it to the Parliament for adoption by 15 November of the current year. Article 32(2) states: "The amendments and additions to the budget shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of the budget". So the government can't re-purpose. Article 36(6) states: "The amendments and additions to the budget adopted by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government are rebalanced incomes and receipts, i.e. expenditures and expenditures of the budget". So the government can't do that either. However, Article 38 also exists. The Budget Act, which states: "the appropriations cannot be redistributed except under the terms and conditions and in the manner set out in this law, i.e. the Decision on the implementation of the budget". And Article 2 says "exceptionally if the redistribution is not carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, redistribution of appropriations for budgetary items may be made up to a maximum of 5% of expenditure and expenditure on the item being reduced", so no more than 5%. I have already said that we have brought amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2004 in a way that we have added Article 40a. which has already been mentioned here, and where it is said that payouts, payouts, other income from users, public debt service, the Government will, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, re-scheduling funds, but is said to be among the items intended for wages, material expenditures, subsidies and assistance, the acquisition of non-financial assets under the budget of the planned funds for these purposes, so to pay, fees, etc. What did the government do? It has neither done so in accordance with Article 40a. Because it increased the total expenditure from 83 billion 203 million 886 thousand 810 kuna as shown by the budget rebalance to 83 billion 452 million 433 thousand and 403 kuna or by a round of 250 million kuna. So she couldn't do it. She could not do so among all the items but only those listed in Article 40a. When we passed amendments to this law, I also for the 2004 budget and for the implementation of the budget for this current year, which is exactly what I have pointed out and wrote the amendment, but of course it was not accepted because it makes it easier for the government to work, because it does not have to come two or maybe three times with the budget rebalancing in Parliament because the debate here when it comes to rebalances is not very pleasant and no explanation why it should be done. And in the end, a lot of it was said about certain items. I will repeat it again as I said in execution for the first six months of 2004. The government has not fulfilled another obligation imposed on it by the Budgetary Act, and it says yes, in Article 40. "It is possible for the Minister of Finance that, with the government's consent, he can postpone payment or grant a rite of payment of outstanding outstanding public fees. In addition to the half-yearly and annual budget implementation report, the government is required to report to the Croatian Parliament on the postponement and payment of the period." Since this was not done for the first six months of 2004, I also asked the government a parliamentary question in a way that gave me an answer to how many such delays were made to which companies or natural persons were made. I received an answer that the government only used such a possibility with the taxpayer at the Sibenik Light Metal Factory in the amount of 28 million kuna. We have other sources of knowledge that, perhaps, the Government did not give the approval, but that far more than this kind of payment and postponement of public payments was made in 2004 so I ask once again that the Government fulfils its obligation and delivers this information to us for the whole of 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38844	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, since there are 14 more applicants for the debate, should continue the debate without delay. I'm appealing to a little bit of assembling the debate so we can vote at 15.00 hours as soon as possible. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. In the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2003 mandate programme In 2007, it says that the main priority in these circumstances, which we know is unemployment and everything else, is one of the top priorities of Croatian policy, which is to ensure the restoration and growth of the Croatian economy and that the government plans to dynamic overall economic activity and especially domestic production through a number of complementary measures. The government is said to launch economic development with a strong momentum of its own production and employment particularly in strategic activities. One of these strategic activities is transport infrastructure and on page 13 of the government programme is said to speed up, restructure and launch a thorough modernisation of Croatian railways and railway infrastructure. Unfortunately, when we look at the implementation of the state budget, then unfortunately, that's not how it works. There are those of us who, in and in the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatian Railways in 2004, said that it was not a good solution to abolish the article of the law that should provide 30 June from fuel consumption for the needs of the development of Croatian Railways. He didn't want to obey us back then. Let us not forget that 40 years of railways were whatever they were called then, but these were railways in the Croatian area, paying so-called. The franchise even when they were buying diesel fuel that they were also making money for the development of road infrastructure. Here we have on page 195 of the state budget between the other and the item that says the modernisation of rail transport, the execution of 90.7%. This shows, among other things, that this government has stopped both restructuring and modernisation and development of the Croatian Railways. Let us not forget that during the war, Croatian railways lost 50% of their capacity, on the one hand without 50% of the train capacity of the locomotive, that the infrastructure on the other hand was destroyed, about railways and passenger cars not to speak. The fact is that there are problems in payments, means that no contracts are being carried out that the Croatian railways had with companies that performed both the modernisation of cars and passenger and freight cars and the parts where the modernisation and acquisition of new locomotives are going. If we know that Croatia has huge transport capacities and potentials in rail transport. We have corridor 5B which is actually a railway line that goes towards the port of Rijeka, corridor 5C that one part goes through Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a port in Ploča, we know that modernization of the railways is employed in about 80 to 90% of cases of domestic capacity, meaning remonting and modernization of the railway is the domestic development of the domestic industry. The same as modernising railways is the development of domestic industry, the development and survival of new but existing jobs. Unfortunately, just because of the difficulty and we have a great indifference on the Croatian railways, let us not forget about it, our colleague Linic said something, and right now at the moment, Croatian railways have unpaid bills for 1 billion kunas, along with payment deadlines of 340 days. I mention 340 days, and the domestic economy suffers precisely because of this they want to admit it to me or not. The past government previously had a payment of 60 days with the rapid development of Croatian railways. I will quote you from the list of Croatian Railways "The Railways" is also about reducing the number of employees, because modernising Croatian Railways will bring a part of the companies to be isolated from the system because they are not activities that are important for the work or which are not necessary for the work of Croatian Railways. However, we have questionable traffic safety on the Croatian Railways, and I will quote it literally as follows: "As far as the number of staff cuts in the Croatian Railways is concerned, it is not possible until modernisation is carried out because not only traffic safety would be brought into question and it is a priority that has no alternative." Therefore, it is obvious that the Government is knowingly or not holding back some part of the Law on Croatian Railways, especially the article that enters into force on January 1st next year when foreign operators have the opportunity to drive on Croatian railways. What this means in a situation where Croatian railways do not have enough passenger or freight wagons, which is, in a situation where there are insufficient tow capacity, it seems that on our tracks they will be profitablely driven by foreigners and Croatian railways want to acknowledge it or not will stagnate slowly. It is precisely by modernising the Croatian Railways that I reiterate the development of domestic production capacities and leave or develop new production jobs, which is very clear in the Government's programme, unfortunately very little is being carried out. I also ask the question of Croatian railways around the local railways, this spring it may have remained less recorded in the media because of the campaign for local elections, the trade unions from the Croatian Railways have been very intensively speaking to the county headquarters and the development of local railways. And there comes the question of the survival of the local railways precisely because Croatian railways do not have enough money to demand an ever-increasing subsidy or increasing participation of units of local and regional self-government we have learned that the government is also preparing a law that would oblige units of local and regional self-government not only for larger subsidies for passenger transport but also generally for the survival of such railways. And when we warned that due to the insufficient financing of Croatian railways, which is also rebalanced for 1.28 billion kuna, there will be some local railways either being shut down or not being restored. I can now ask myself and you what about the railroad from Vinkovec to Osijek one of the local railways that had the biggest traffic in this country. Unfortunately, since the beginning of her construction, things have been nothing. That is why Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament may be necessary not if the ministers are here, there are state secretaries from other portfolios, not only if Mrs. Dalic is from the Ministry of Finance, perhaps from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development could explain how the development of Croatian railways does not go with the intensity that should go because it is also the fact that the quality and speed of maintenance of certain Croatian railways that are necessary for modernization. I can't help but say a few more pearls we have here, some of them have already mentioned it, but I have to calm my conscience, too. We all swear that Croatia wants as many young and educated people as possible, at the same time for scholarships and scholarships to implement the budget 91.94%. The road safety law was passed to me in July last year, the Croatian Road Safety Council was abolished. Since I've been president of this Council for four months, and we've been careful not to spend any money,...until the law is abolished, and suddenly 76% of the money foreseen for the work of the Council is spent, forgive me, something stinks here. It would be good if the Ministry were here to explain why. I quoted the government programme where the government swears on domestic production, encouraging the construction of ships for Croatian shipkeepers in Croatian shipyards to execute 78.62%. Whom we fool, whether we want to develop and encourage domestic production or not. Obviously, between words and deeds, there is an obvious gap. Therefore, it is obvious, as it stands here on page 279 of the Explanation, where it is said for the subsidies to companies that the reduction means for approximately 106 million kuna, that we want to encourage if for the development of the economy, because these are subsidies, a reduction of 106 million kuna. Obviously, from certain ministries and not the Ministry of Finance, we should get answers as to why, obviously, the government and certain ministries did not have any programmes or desire to carry out certain activities because otherwise the situation would be clearly different, which is why I cannot accept and give my vote for this Implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38846	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38847	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have the impression that we're at a spiritist session because from this document sent by the government the spirits are out, it has nothing to do with reality. There's in action one... there's juggling numbers, there's trying to pull a rabbit out of a hat, but fortunately there's enough light in the assembly room and in the heads of MPs there's enough sanity, so that trick failed at the very beginning. The main mag didn't even come. He obviously didn't practice enough, so he's afraid he'll fail on the open stage and then send his assistants. What's the trick? The trick is pretty simple, it's easy for a little kid to teach him. The MPs passed a state budget under the Constitution and by law, and then the government made so-called. the technical rebalancing of the budget so that it changes that entire budget, all the items by it sparks make one deep plowing on that budget, then to the mouths of the figures and then to return it back to the Parliament as a document called The Budget of the State. To what extent, the Parliament, which here at all will suffer and suffer for a few days and bring some kind of budget, vote the budget when the Government changes all these items itself, some throw out, some add, it has nothing to do with that budget that the Parliament has brought. No more parliamentary control, it's over. It's over. The failed trick showed that the government doesn't need that control, that it bothers her and that she won't suffer the Parliament as her controller. She'll use the technical rebalancing of the budget to sort things out for herself as she comes to mind. That's why this document is called wrong in the first place. It is called the Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004. But that's not it. Let's compare it to the state budget and see if it has anything to do with the state budget. This is the calculation of the state budget's technical rebalancing, so the document the government adopted in the 12th month. In order to be able to control at all, the document should have arrived in this form. The state budget as voted in the Parliament, then the rebalance of the state budget, then this bill. Well, then that would be transparent and comparable. But if that were done then it would be quite clear that none of the goals were achieved. It would be loaded, it would be beautifully written from those figures, it would follow from one another. For example, an increase in salary expenditures of 600 million kuna would be seen. The state officials would think about ho, so that's good, it increased our government's salary and yet on the other hand they know it's not because they know what their pay is. Then why the $600 million increase? The number of officials has increased, bureaucracy has increased contrary to what was promised to make the state apparatus smaller and cheaper. He's bigger and more expensive. There was a promise of consolidation of finance and if it was done as I said it would come out completely transparently if there were 3 billion unpaid bills only in health care. We, where do we see it in this document? Nowhere. That doesn't show up here. That the payment deadline was extended to 340 days. Where do we see it in this document? Nowhere, it doesn't show. Better revenue has been promised. We all remember here Minister Shuker who called Racan's government incompetent because he can't charge taxes or excise fees, and when they're ministers, it'll all be much, much better. He will charge all these excise duties 50% more than Racan's government. And now Minister Schuker says he admits that his grey economy has increased and that there is no charge, better revenue collection. She's gone. She wasn't Racan's government incompetent. He's incompetent, Minister Schuker, and he was still deluding himself when he promised to do something he didn't know how to do. He doesn't know. Foreign debt. So what was the cry about that external debt? Well, that's where the Argentine syndrome was mentioned. They were afraid of the people with Argentine syndrome because Racan's government's huge external debt works, owes the country, the country will go bankrupt if this continues. Yeah, it grew external debt but it grew and investment. The Zagreb-Split road was built. So where are your roads, gentlemen? Your external debt is growing. There's still external debt growing. But where are your roads? The only road you're speeding up is the one towards The Hague. It's a God-awful reduction in budget deficits. But, which, with five billion kunas of unpaid liabilities, is total state-level. Look, if we know it's 2 billion kuna, it's 1% GDP. Then 5 billion kuna is 2.5%. So when he added another 2 billion kuna the government pulled out of dividends, that's another 1%. Well, then, the deficit. It's all total 4.5%. Well, then the deficit isn't 4.9, it's 9.4. Let's imagine what would have happened if Racan's government had withdrawn those dividends. Then that deficit of Racan's government would be less accounting. This one would be the larger Sanader government. So that's where you juggle numbers, that's not where you're gonna tell the truth. That's where things are hiding. If this appeared transparently, there would be a growth of public debt of 10 billion kuna. But despite the rise in public debt, there is no investment, no modernisation of railways. What's up? There's increased consumption, and it's uncontrollable. So the government can try to cheat on the public with tricks like this, reading numbers, building these "Potemkin's Villages". But you know, where your attempts are quite cheap, these are tricks that fall more on the fair some village for kiwi and not here in the Parliament, and for them you simply can't vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38848	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38849	counterpart Stazic said that 600 million kunas were paid more for salaries of increased red tape, more employees. Inaccurate colleague Stazic. The exact increase is 4% of the salary and the court's performance and the verdict because of your government's failure to comply with the provisions of the collective agreement. And they got the courts of those people and they need to pay people fair and square.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38850	The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38851	Thank you very much. This is exactly what caused me to report in the debate at all. It's pointless to pollomize with all these lawsuits, insults, and so forth. But it's incorrect, among other things, to list the mass of wages, it's said to increase the number of officials, etc. Absolutely incorrect. We'll remind you that it's true that all the judgments that have come and that there are countless hundreds and thousands of those you've thrown into the street beyond all laws. And secondly, before the end of the term of office of 2003, you signed a collective agreement whose obligations only these days come and will come for a very long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38852	Thank you. Respected representative of the violation of the Rules of Procedure Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38853	The Rules of Procedure of Article 209(2) which speaks when it can be raised and used, or used, by the Institute of Inaccuracy. So, a colleague is under that parole... Because this... [[You can't hear the phone.]] comes to collect what was illegal for ten and twelve years with interest on average from 600 to 7 hundred thousand kuna per individual. [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38854	My colleague Ingrid Antičević, first of all, was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because a representative of Šima Prtnječa challenged one of his predecessors' allegations. The Rules of Procedure knowingly and deliberately injured you. You knowingly and deliberately injured him because you know very well that you cannot intervene with the breach of the Rules of Procedure by claiming that it is incorrect what the agent who reported for the correction of the incorrect claim is. This is part of the elements of the Rules of Procedure. You know them well, and please don't. I don't need anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've heard like everyone else. You're saying it's not true what the Armsman said. Well, you can't do that, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a correction, a correction of a representative for which you have no right. Come on, you're a very good layer of the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that. Don't do that again because it doesn't suit your reputation. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38855	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, words were heard about fraud and so on, but I liked the approach related to the interpretation of this now, the rebalancing, the rebalancing, the execution, or the execution, the execution when it came to tricks. But I would allow myself to maybe even fix my fellow Stazic, because when you do tricks that failed, they later need, again tricks, new tricks to solve the bad consequences of previous tricks. And that, too, is why in this preamble of what I will later say about culture, I will warn of such a characteristic procedure. First, 18 million were planned for museum gallery activities, then the government's decision reduced it by one million and was 17 million and ended up spending 18 million and 382,000 kuna. So, we have an interesting way in which even that previous budget that we weren't satisfied with seemed better than the government's procedures, so, redistribution of the funds planned in the social budget, so they went back to the starting points. So we have that kind of phenomenon. But perhaps it is actually from the point of view of the relationship to the overall document really very bad procedure and precedent to talk about the execution of that budget that this House did not vote but which was in some way made by the government's decisions. But there's one subtle problem in this budget, I'm sorry, and that's what's constantly and more courageous in some way the funds provided for the cultural budget are shrinking to the low branches. One of the main unsaid conventions of the last government was that culture, science and education as an integral part of overall development and key elements and development factors would grow continuously at certain rates and we moved from the previous government by 68% in the funds provided for public cultural needs. With this budget, we've fallen 15%. So instead of growing the way we grew up in this segment of 15% a year, for the first time we got a budget that 15% reduced the funds of the previous Ministry of Public Needs in Culture. Especially here is now in a way and realized what we were afraid of and it is in one of the key elements of the ministry's functioning and it is in function, therefore, when it comes to protecting cultural monuments because 50 million kunas are less. It was then explained that thanks to the Law also received by the previous Government on monumental rent, we will be able to make up for less funds for the restoration of cultural heritage. Therefore, what was intended to be an addition to the necessary and necessary state resources should now be served as a substitute for the reduction of these funds. However, it is interesting that this budget or at least I am not able to find out and I have looked closely enough, there is no revenue recorded anywhere that would have been the revenue generated by the monumental rent, and we know that in a whole series of places and cities it still went into operation and that certain funds are being collected, so 40% of the collected, collected monumental rents would have to be shown somewhere as a aspect of this budget and budget. I... I couldn't find, so there's some kind of aggregate size, there's no specification anywhere, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means we're falling seriously and not making up for what our resources are. Because cultural heritage is one of the fundamental resources and even some of the ministries in Europe and the world are not called the Ministry of Culture, but are called the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. On this key segment, therefore, 50 million kuna is less than it was last year, not so it didn't grow by 15%, but it decreased by 50 million and on that key segment, so we don't record income related to the monumental line. I will, along with my colleagues, ask that once and for all, clear out the question of where and how much the state administration costs because I have information that there are actually about 100 new employees in the Ministry of Culture, and the same information we've heard about some other ministries. It should really come out here in front of the Parliament very openly and clearly with a comparative picture of the number of employees per particular ministry in this period to see that something that has been required of us, which requires us to be a policy, which means that it is not expanding, at least not needlessly the state administration, that it has just been broken and that it is significantly expanding, which then penetrated all of these elements, the elements of the budget, and then, then, and the wages go up. That's the point where unfortunately we have to realize that the budget, that the cultural budget has fallen, that it has fallen by about 15%, we have to conclude, I can conclude, unhappy about that and this modest contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38856	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38857	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly believe that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are not happy with the implementation of the 2004 budget. And I believe it only and it's possible. In fact, the revenues were difficult to achieve and they failed, with expenditures being significant problems so that within a few months, expenditures had to be restructured in order to meet the needs of the people, the deficit exceeded the planned amount and under such conditions, so neither the Ministry nor the Government nor we in the Parliament can be satisfied with how it was achieved, was the course of budget implementation in 2004. And of course here is now an opportunity to talk, not just about what happened, but to learn from it as far away as possible. And that's why, Mr. Vice President, we're not here in this House to be vain that there is no minister of this or that. I think it is a shame not for us fellows, but it is a shame for Croatia and the Croatian government not to be here, because now it was about cultural problems, about the problems of the railways, about many important issues of all sectors of the Croatian economy that are not discussed at all. There's a time for that conversation, but there's no talking about it. And that's the only thing that matters here in relation to today's Parliament, the government. Unfortunately, this important issue is not sufficiently discussed on important issues. I'll only make one note in the income bond. In a very rough way, many people who were involved in collecting tax revenues during the long previous period were disqualified when individuals from the current structure of the government claimed to be incompetent and did not collect taxes and revenues for a long period of time in order to do so. I know that from my professor Hazekovic, who was the first finance minister and onward, many people have made efforts to improve tax collection, but never enough agility in a country where one of their favorite sports simply avoid paying taxes. And some drastic changes in that, if they hadn't been able to do it by now and we're going to fix it quickly, they weren't good, they weren't wise. It is now simply shown that it was not realistic to promise that it would be promised in 11 months 2003 that 6 billion revenues would be collected by a better charge and so on. So that allowed the conclusion to go, HDZ went with the proposal on the basis of a reduction in VAT. Well, of course then and further conclusions went that they're all actually in the air now as well as promises of growth, living standards and so forth. I also remember the heavy meals about that with excise duties especially with oil one of the people in charge is not doing it properly and should be accounted for. I know a chart that's been shown the whole time that over the summer there's not enough excise money, and during the summer there's tourists, and that chart should explode during the summer. Look what it's like for 2004. There were words here to investigate how they pay taxes for people who bought all those yachts that appeared at the first one of those exhibitions and yacht fairs. Or all those cars or building all those possible villas and so on. Obviously, it doesn't just work out, and the revenues as we can see, unfortunately, don't come true. They don't even come true nearly enough. This is where Mr. Hebrang said the revenues went up 7.7%. Yeah, but not the IRS. Tax revenues increased 4.1% last year and this concerns because it is almost half the intensity of economic activity. So if we have some economic nominal activity that's about 7% nominal, take inflation, all these other parameters, and tax revenues are rising only 4.1%, then there's a serious problem. This problem is, of course, particularly related to VAT because this VAT makes 2/3 of all total tax revenues and it has increased 6.2% compared to 2003 which is certainly not satisfactory. It was planned to be 8.3, and according to all those promises it was supposed to be more because it was all expensive at the level of some kind of growth dynamic. And take the excise. I'm going to say oil derivatives, especially now. These excise duties on oil derivatives that have been constantly under my nose for 4 years to fail are absolutely less than in 2003. And of course it was supposed to, it was planned and so on to increase them. Look, I'm not gonna be mean, but I'm gonna say it anyway. The issue of revenue and more orderly finances in terms of collecting larger revenues is the issue of a subtle mechanism of approach and a more comprehensive approach in which both incentives and reliefs and discipline are obviously to be combined. We've been developing a system in which we've stimulated people, that people are simply directed to some activities to repair their roof, build a house, and so on, and then have tax reliefs. They then contribute to economic growth. They didn't go to some islands I don't know where and we admitted it to him as a relief. Those reliefs were, we introduced them, they were 48 grand in total. Now they've been reduced to 12,000 possible new solutions. That won't increase the revenue trust me. And it will increase the grey economy further. It stimulates people to unproductive consumption, not to do other things. All international experience is fiscally pointing to this. Only, therefore, such a combination and relief and discipline, and I must say better conditions for the work of tax workers can improve the situation. I especially want to say that because I have failed to ensure that these people are paid better than they deserve. But that has to be the goal. Taxes are very underpaid, unrecognized, under constant pressure, working in the ambience of a messy state, and we ask them to orderly charge taxes from those who can put them in a pocket along with their families. So these are real problems that deserve attention in the next period. So much for income. So the realization of these revenues is certainly a serious matter that will need to be taken care of, more. Let me still talk about the debt, about the debt I have to say something about. We simply need to tell ourselves some things very clearly in this country. Namely, there are now grades. There's a cut in external debt. Something's increasing internal debt, something's growing and so on. We have to be exact here. Deb, I'm talking about the central state now, not banks and businesses. The debt of the central state of Croatia is growing and has taken up the extent to which the attention of the entire economic policy and all moves must be particular. Just in 2003, when the debt grew a lot. It has grown, you can see it from Table 13 of the latest newsletter of the Croatian National Bank or others, but the debt of the central state in 2003 grew 9.9 billion. Debt of the central state, both internal and external. And in 2004, it increased by 12 billion. The debt of the state is being fast-tracked, and it is in increased debt. He's in debt, he's growing debt to both outside and especially to the inside. It has broad implications for everything. I'm just warning you of the fact that we don't have enough understanding of the burden of the growing debt, and the projection was to slow down and fall. But at the same time, economic growth slows down, investment slows down. There are, of course, problems of growing indifference and so forth. I’m doing it because time also stands out, in fact, just to say the following: economic policy cannot say that it is satisfactoryly successful. Trends, a series of trends are negative. This economic policy, and the government, is in a stable way, too. It is also a matter of credibility in achieving these defined objectives. Now the IMF is giving us a memorandum, asking us to prepare some additional measures in two weeks, and so on and so on. The whole matter of the economy must indeed be more serious on the agenda of the Government. That requires this budget too, and then you should expect some moves soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38858	Thank you very much. Before the secretary of state, we have two corrections. First Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38859	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Church where he claimed that excise duties and excise duties were absolutely and significantly less than they were in 2003. In fact, excise duties and excise fees increased by 1.2% in 2004 rather than in 2003. They were not accomplished as planned. It is true that they were not achieved as planned in 8.4% of the increase, but only 1.2%. Sir, I've listened to you enough, and I didn't disturb you when you lied. Be so polite... Be so polite and let me say it all the way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means that by chasing the concepts of the difference between the planned and achieved and last year's i.e. In 2003, 2004 is actually the essence and the essence of the problem we did not achieve in 2004 what we planned but we achieved a higher cost than it was in 2003 by 1.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38860	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38861	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. The esteemed representative said two incorrect things about his income, so I'm correcting them. First of all, he said that in the value added tax, we failed because we have fewer achievements than planned. We have a lower performance of 587 million, but compared to the year before the gentleman, the esteemed representative of the Church led the budget we have more than a billion raised than the VAT. I think it's a success. The second thing he said was that the total incomes failed. The total revenues should be re-provided by 7.7%. That sounds a little bit, but when this is calculated relative to the total amount of the budget, then these revenues in 2004 were more than €6 billion 220 million in 2003. Then there's a little bit of a different picture, I mean positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38862	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38863	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry to have to use this and appeal to this article 214. etc., but these corrections are simply not true. I was talking about oil excises that are smaller and they are less absolute than they were last year. And the growth of total excise duties of 1.14% is better not to mention because that growth would have to be significantly higher. ... Please, that's not even how much inflation has grown. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I repeat to Mr. Hebrang, incomes have increased 7.7% but tax revenues have increased 4.1%. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38864	Mr. Churchman himself said he apologized for using this one. But you didn't, you were correcting Mr. Hebrang. But how did I...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38865	No, he was correcting me in a part I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38866	But you don't have a chance to do that, business. I allow it to be so, but I, as I'm known, is tolerable in that regard, so I'm not interrupting, you know. Let's move on. State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38867	Speaking of income and revenue collection, I'd like to if you'd let me also say we should have done better. And that's why I'd like to give a few explanations in that sense to make it better. Because the task is, of course, by the executive authorities to enforce the law and to collect taxes from all those who are obliged to pay it. However, I wanted to say the following and possibly explain the reasons why we claim that tax revenues can be better. People are being educated, new ways are being introduced. But I want to say the following. In 2000, there was a Financial Police tasked with collection. In the IRS, there was a department for large taxpayers. The tax administration was focused on large taxpayers because they are the ones who are important in charging and in collecting tax revenues. 2004. The financial police aren't here because they don't have to, because the charge and the incentive and the coercion, to express myself for payment, I guess they'll do it on their own. And Mr. Churchvenac said that we're not exactly the most famous country for the culture of regular tax pay, so we probably shouldn't have had strong coercion in that sense. The tax administration is entirely focused on small taxpayers, craftsmen and the like. These taxpayers should also be controlled, but it is a matter of weighting and emphasis being placed. Also the best tax administration officials today by private companies, by large and respected corporations today work former tax administration employees, many of them, I don't want to list these companies here, left after 2002. They're good obviously to the private sector. The tax administration in 2000 and 2001 seemed to be ungood. Excise duties, excise duty system transferred, control and excise charge was transferred to customs administration, transferred only to business. In 2004, it began to be effective again from the beginning, and we are doing so today to establish a system of supervision and collection because only a few people worked in the customs administration. It wasn't Minister Shuker's promises, unfortunately, that were days in vain. However, it could not be known that the state of human resources in the tax administration is this bad, human beings in terms of education. As regards remuneration, remuneration and tax and customs administrations, specific laws governing the functioning of those institutions were defined. That is, those rights to the tax and customs administration have been abolished. And the truth is what Professor Churchman says. Today, the tax and customs administration are fighting and overseeing people who are much better paid than they are. But today we live in a system of rigid coefficients and it is not possible, unfortunately it is not possible to fix and change all of this in a very short time. The value added tax is true, I repeat again what Professor Churchvenac said, we are not a country known for its great discipline in paying taxes. So what do we do? We are introducing ever wider and wider reliefs into the value added tax system. And the reliefs are then also used for those who, to that end, have the right but also for those who try to use it in their own way. And the task standing before us, to renegotiate these reliefs gradually restore order to the system of value added tax. Here, so I actually wanted to underline these facts and maybe take the opportunity to get an answer to some of these questions that are really not an answer for the Ministry of Finance but an explanation of why some of these things happened and it's from the Ministry of Finance really vital. And of course, trying to re-elevate the tax administration and the customs administration takes time. But as I say we are reintroducing a division for large taxpayers, we are re-supervising VAT returns, because sometimes VAT returns could not be done without the financial police taking control of a certain amount, however, this should not have been done. The financial police will begin to work as you had the opportunity to see in the newspaper tenders are ongoing and it is not true that it is already additionally employed, an additional 250 people, it will be organised by synergy between the existing people in the tax administration and some new employees. I believe, therefore, a series of coordinated actions are also being introduced with other customs services related to the collection of excise duties. I believe, therefore, that it will make an effort and that it will give results in tax collection. I'm joining that, you should do better, but consider everything I've said. As far as the debt goes, one more note. In 2003, public debt increased by 9.9 billion, 2004 by 12. The only thing that has not yet been said is that in 2003 there were 3.7 billion kunas of capital revenue used to finance the main payment deficits and therefore in the accounts of the state budget as Mr. Churchvenac knows, they have the same treatment as the debt only represents innocent funding of the deficit. Here, thank you very much. I wouldn't last any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38868	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38869	I will talk to my colleague Dalić past this system of corrections, because I am actually disappointed with her step and approach to things. It's just this philosophy. If the police administration wasn't focused only on small entrepreneurs, the tax administration wasn't only targeting small entrepreneurs, it was clashing with the Financial Police the whole time, and there was an impossible part of which none of Europe has, because none of them have tax, except one, tax police, financial police. Why don't they have that? And secondly, it's incorrect that now order will be reintroduced, gradually restore order, I don't know when it was. Well, the tax administration staff was better at the beginning of 2004 than ever before. And I'm sorry that you intend to continue removing the relief to reduce the evac. That's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38870	Thank you very much. It's Ms. Nevenka Majdenic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38871	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before and at the time of the adoption of more serious and realistic assessments of the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004, some indisputable facts must be respected that have conditionaled both its adoption and its implementation. First of all, it's the time of its duration. We all know that the state budget was voted in March 2004, and we know why. So it lasted nine months, not 12 months. Secondly, the main objective of fiscal policy was to establish transparency and efficiency in public expenditure and public debt management and to start a medium-term consolidation of public finances. And third, budget revenue planning for 2004 was based on the 2003 macroeconomic indicators of economic and social fiscal policy. The government's macroeconomic objectives on the internal plan are to revive the economy, reduce public debt unemployment, increase exports with a slowdown in imports, and retain low inflation and monetary stability are of a long-term nature and cannot be expected to have full effects already in the first year. However, positive developments and quality structural changes in the macroeconomic plan have been achieved already in the first year. Gross domestic product of 3.8% registered a positive shift compared to the last quarter of 2003 when the gross domestic product was 3.6% and increased by 3.3%. Inflation was held at 2.1%, employment increased by 1.2%, and the first time in the commodity exchange made faster exports of 16.9% than imports of 5.4% with a slowdown in external borrowing. In 2003, external borrowing was $9.8 billion and in 2004, 6.1 billion. On these grounds, the State budget for 2004 was implemented in 99.6% on the expenditure and 97.8% on the revenue side. The achievement of budgetary revenues by species and their increase compared to the previous year follows the economic logic, i.e. an increase in the sources from which they are alluded. Thus income from income tax was increased in line with the increase in employment and real wages, i.e. by 1.9%, and its slower growth compared to the previous year by 0.4% was the result of a significant increase in the different forms of tax reliefs applied in 2004. The VAT revenue accounts for 63.6%, income from all forms of tax revenue and with 37% participate in the total revenue achieved and make up its highest form of budget revenue. Compared to the previous year, they increased by 6.2%, resulting in an increase in all forms of economic activity that creates added value. Income and on the basis of excise duties increased by 1.2% compared to 2003. In the cost structure, a special tax on oil derivatives is participating with 41.8% and it has been reduced compared to the plan as well as last year. The second in its participation in excise revenues and a special tax on tobacco processing is 30.6% and 140 million kunas have been achieved less revenue than planned, but 3.5% more compared to the previous year. The situation with other forms of excise duty is similar, but it has been achieved in smaller amounts compared to the plan, but slightly more or more at the same level as in 2003. Income from social contributions was achieved by 99.5% compared to planned or 7.5% higher compared to 2003. These revenues, as well as income tax revenues, are in a clear correlation between economic shifts, i.e. with an increase in wages and employment. As far as budgetary expenditures are concerned, they are achieved as planned and almost 100%. The index is 99.6% and whether it is analysed by organisational or economic classification. This means that the revenue of individual beneficiaries of the budget has been made in accordance with the plan and that the funds have been spent for the purposes planned, that means under the economic classification. This implementation of the 2004 budget shows that the principles of fiscal policy have started to apply, that transparency, efficiency and consolidation of state finances and certain financial discipline have been achieved. There are no more cases of income being allocated to one user, and they spend on another and other purposes as usual in the former government. Finally, it is also important to point out that the 2003 deficit was reduced from 6.3% of gross domestic product to 4.9% in 2004. I believe that in 2004, many positive developments were made in the management of state finances, that the report accurately presented the results achieved and I suggest that they be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38872	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Pearl Perman's turn, which she doesn't have, so she loses her right. And yet, Mr. St. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a respected assistant minister, co-workers and fellow MPs. So to repeat that there is no government, that there are no ministers, that there is no direct public insights in the debate on the annual budget calculation really doesn't make any sense anymore, but it needs to be repeated for the citizens we represent here, which is the purpose of the debate on the annual calculation of the state budget. Is it a business form or is it a conversation about all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I think the purpose of the debate on the annual accounting of the state budget is to justify before the Croatian public the government for spending taxpayers' money. And another thing is that the government's fiscal and economic policy is to check whether it is in line with the real opportunities and needs of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, i.e. that its fiscal policy is in line with the promises it made to Croatian citizens. if no one here has disputed the assessment that the calculation, the annual accounts of the state budget cannot be compared with the act adopted by the Croatian Parliament, then it is absolutely certain that citizens cannot have insight into the policy of the government which was to be shown in the annual budget account. This means that discrimination is not only between acts that are official but also between the government's policy and those with which the government ended the year. So the difference between promise and realization is huge. When, in addition to seeing the official documents, the debate cannot come to a man's idea, that folk proverb, "He doesn't know what his right hand is doing." But let's get something more concrete. Did the promised policy of the Croatian government come true when it comes to the revenues of the state budget, or when it comes to introducing tax discipline into the Croatian legal and fiscal system. No, it's not 1%, no matter what technical and statistical it's confirmed that it's 1%. If, in this regard, Professor Churchvenac, a colleague of the Church, the State Secretary, admitted that there was no shift in tax discipline and in the collection of state revenues as promised at least but we are going to do something more concrete about the external debt or public debt. If any of you remembers, you and the citizens should remember how today's position talked about external debt when it was in opposition. Did the opposition promise come true when it came into position. However, I would not like to talk about it politically, if I say something, I will try to speak in a national way. Therefore, external debt growth continues in the past 2004 and today, in 2005, unfortunately, we can conclude that the amount of 31 billion dollars has increased and exceeded, this high debt of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. this high external debt, endangers stability and the future of the Republic, namely, the country itself participates in the total external debt up to 30% of the debt, and the Croatian banks are also somewhat more than 30% of the total debt abroad, and only the rest is in the private sector. The public debt is therefore 31 billion dollars and it exceeds 80% of gross domestic product, which requires really serious consideration of extraordinary measures to reduce external debt burdens. If this is further added that external debt can be additionally burdened with exchange rate differences and thus increase external responsibility for which the Croatian state cannot influence, then the danger of the external debt is not really small. In particular, it is particularly important to point out the debts of Croatian banks in the overall external responsibility of the Republic of Croatia. Most of the business banks in Croatia are owned by foreign banks, so their business goals and interests are, as a rule, just maximising interest profits. So they will continue to be in debt as long as the money they borrowed outside can successfully be paid to businesses and citizens, and lately very certainly also to the Croatian state. To be absurd even bigger, the Croatian state is only this year to cover HZZO's costs we already talked about once in the Assembly, which will further strengthen the cost of the transaction. Our banking system is not just some banks, it's easy to sell and it can be said for very small money, and let's remember today these people are alive and today they're working in the Croatian banking system and in the government they assured us that by selling banks we'll arrange the banking system, reduce interest, finance our economy, our development, however, these people have spoken but their speech has not been realized, all trends are negative when it is looked at as a whole. Unfortunately, only those banks of ours are really Croatia, but they own foreign citizens, earn a huge profit belonging to their foreign owners, and their profits are in fact a burden, the cost of our economy and our citizens. They owe the Republic of Croatia abroad to make their owners big profits abroad again and on high interest rates with the Croatian state. However, what we representatives in the Croatian Parliament do, we only accept the findings of the competent Croatian authorities, institutions and individuals that external debt is the product of the system. If it is true that the external debt is a product of the system then that system should be changed. We must not fall into any of the logic of a doctor who realizes that the patient is cold, that the disease is progressing and ultimately informs us that the patient may die but he is not one of the measures required by the rules of the profession, such a situation is on the soul of this Parliament. It is our obligation to the citizens to ask the question of the Croatian government, Croatian institutions and individuals who participate in creating such a model to stop these processes, in particular the privatisation processes that do not employ, which continues to create loss of jobs, to stop the high interest rates of Croatian banks that do not invest in production, therefore, if we add the account situation that we have today in the Croatian Parliament so that we cannot compare the official document of the Government with the official document of the Assembly, then it is not possible to accept the principle that the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing and to vote for such a document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38874	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunjec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38875	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's just listening to these last words of fellow Lek in some way we see that the numbers and certain percentages, certain parameters that are in the calculation of the annual budget for 2004 when it comes to the state budget, de facto and I must say absolutely wrongly read in different ways and I am sure that at the point that we will be at the next meeting of the Assembly when it comes to the Croatian National Bank Report that we may find some reconciliation there. And to look at the parameters that we look at today in some way as objectively as we look at them. In fact, you've now said that unemployment is increasing, etc., and that doesn't stand at all. You can see in macroeconomic indicators that the unemployment rate is the lowest in five years, that it is 18% this year, that the number of employees was increased compared to 2003 by 18 thousand, that exports recorded a rise compared to 2003 and imports increased by 5.4% compared to 2003. That the average salary in 2004 was 4000 and 312 kuna, I'm talking about the net salary, which means its increase from 2003 to 6.6%. The real salary increase was 3.7%, we had stable prices and a stable rate. At least you should have pointed that out and then went with one criticism in the way you were exposed when it came to calculating the budget. I will return to what I consider relevant by my judgment to say about the budget. I believe that tax revenues that were not achieved in 2004 are the result of more factors when it comes to excise duties and the ministry has always said in a transparent and open manner that there is a grey economy and we cannot talk about the increase in the gray economy but de facto this government had those mechanisms that it inherited when it comes to tax or excise duty in 2004, when it comes to oil and other products that are subject to taxation. I must say that, certainly, the abolition of the financial police in 2001 or 2002 when it happened also had a negative face on the collection of excise duties and at all tax collection, and I believe that this in some way resulted in imports of non-quality goods and that goods are mainly sold on black, and I believe that, with the existing mechanisms and the construction of the financial police, there is a big fight ahead, and that is to protect domestic products, and also to protect domestic traders. When it comes to subsidies, I'll just say a few words. I believe that by giving, subsidising and encouraging economies in the framework of the budget, the government has done a good job, that these subsidies have been less due to commitments that should have been settled from earlier years and also to those famous 6 billion kunas that have not even been recorded. And therefore, that it led within the limits of real and possible this dimension of development, the development dimension when it comes to the budget. And we also see an increase in social subsidies. Therefore, she also led a social policy. On the transparency of the budget where there has been a lot of criticism today, I believe that perhaps some of the positions may be shown in a different way, but in my personal assessment, I believe that when it comes to transparency, then I cannot transfer representatives who were also in the government, this Government and related to the transparency of the budget itself, mainly because of that if we know that a good part of the costs, expenditure has not been realistically and shown and has not been shown at all in the 2003 budget and as confirmed by the State Audit. Let me get this straight. We still talk about what happened, which was behind us in 2004. I believe that in the frameworks that we have done in view of the international environment that we can be satisfied with the achievement of the budget and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has completed its basic task for 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38876	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Bituch was correcting me for what I didn't say. It's just not possible, it's not logical. I wasn't talking about the course anything and if he's already talking about the course then the course isn't purpose itself. Secondly, if you're talking about increased employment, I'm not talking about increased employment in the state administration, I'm talking about employment through conversion, which is true. So, you haven't fixed anything, but I have disabling this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38878	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38879	Mr. President, I need to look back at my colleague Bitunjec's debate about state incentives. In the debate, we talked quite often today about the deficit rate needed for development and then we realized that other than state investment it is very important to have various incentives in the economy to still be able to bring the economic growth rate closer to 5%. One such measure is also subsidies. Unfortunately, last year's execution which we can determine. In addition to paying commitments to the Railways, the subsidisation of railways due to continuous problems as we do not complete the restructuring processes or the consolidation processes of the Croatian Railways have significantly reduced the support and subsidies of the economy, they have decreased significantly. And that's one of the problems. We are not helping the economic sector to strengthen exports, to modernise its technologies, and we are not even present enough in the economy. And why didn't we? Because we don't control consumption and that's why we can't be satisfied. I won't talk because I don't have time for agricultural support problems because unfortunately they're not enough to make a change in agriculture policy as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38880	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38881	Well, I would agree that subsidies should be more significant and thank God that any member of the government would be more realistic if these subsidies were to be more significant in the economy and in the restructuring of the economy itself. However, what you have now said in some way initiates new responsibilities and de facto it is in my opinion the difference between the former government and this where in some way the current government is trying to find one harmony between the responsibilities either abroad or with us when it comes to development... But you'd probably go with another six or seven billion kunas or dollars, and I don't know what, the debts and the economic cycle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a question of my profession. We can outsmart ourselves here but I think the government has well assessed and assessed reality and reality not only at this moment but also what will happen in four, five or six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38882	Thank you. Second replica, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38883	I really don't know what kind of inherited instruments you're talking about when you charge excise fees. We all remember here the current Minister Schucker as an agent roaring at the then Minister of the Church that he was incompetent because he couldn't charge the excise duties because, for example, his charge on oil derivatives in the seventh and eighth months is the same as in the fourth and fifth, and that when he's a minister, he'll increase the bar by 50%. Then we experienced the achievement of these ideals, so Minister Shuker became minister. So what's his charge of excise duties from oil derivatives, where his charge is, where it's efficient. Well, it's not about instruments, it's about abilities. The man spoke at least as while he was a parliamentary representative and now as a minister he does at least how. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38884	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38885	Well, I think it's going to take at least this year to get an inheritance when it comes to tax collection and everything else solved by this government. Therefore, only now is the introduction of the financial police and the consolidation of the entire tax system, tax officials, officials, this government can answer that question. However, you obviously, you obviously, when it comes to inheritance you wouldn't want to mention, I've never alluded, here's the first time I'm going to mention what was in the '90s it doesn't fall on me, it's not my style or speech. Not as private and mostly as a representative. So I think you personally have an inheritance complex but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38886	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38887	Dear Mr. President, listening to an esteemed colleague who gave all the data statistics on how exports have grown and how employment and this is, it would be said that we are a country of milk and honey, but unfortunately raw is indeed quite different. We know that the debt has been increased and that's over $32 billion. We also know what it means in terms of value if we see what our coverage of exports and imports is, we should talk about value amounts, so we will see that we do not have tourism to bankrupt the minors. And as for excise duties, look, there's really one discrepancy, and we know that the plan was meant to budget that we're going to make more than 8.5 billion revenue from excise duties and we've achieved less than 8. And it's an interesting situation what that would mean, or if we had a bad plan or if the government had already calculated these parts and they were all increasing oil derivatives. It's a bit of an interesting situation, but still what remains is that we don't have payment instruments. The only thing that's visible is that the shift in terms of the execution of the plan is only in terms of punishment and that's 0.0. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38888	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38889	Well, my colleague Kovacevic, I didn't share the parcel data when it came to some indicators, but I represented one whole. And you're talking about duty now and then you should have seen that it's the responsibility of 2003/2004, if we're looking at the relationship only for the two years 1:2, that's the direct responsibility of the state. And as for the borrowing itself, I think that you and I, that we are all aware in some way that, since the banking sector is privatised in 91, 92% of the banks are foreign owners, that we can then talk in some way that there, whether or not we wanted, that this banking system can always do certain presses when it comes to both the economy and our overall life in Croatia. So these are all factors that should be considered. And this second, when it comes to excise duties, I think I already said them, so you wouldn't, there's no need to repeat the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38890	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38891	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have a budget ahead of us that here is causing controversial discussions as if it were two different books, I'm going to talk about the one I read because I got it right here on the table. It's a book that gives very positive indicators compared to the previous year in 2003, but in critical consideration of this book, so we have to say this 2004 budget from what this government started. And we have to repeat that because it's a recorded excess of 7.5 billion kuna outside the budget that this government had to compensate for this year. What gentlemen now want to correct is this correction of the wrong allegation, they must address not me who cited it but Mr. Demecas and the IMF who confirmed it and who must address the state audit that has also confirmed it. So I'm just going to go over it briefly by quoting the site on which it is in the state audit to shorten this debate. Therefore, in line with the legacy of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it did not show a pension payment for the former republic, the former state worth a billion kuna, page 311 of the state audit. The construction ministry has agreed on a billion and 300 million kunas more than it has been approved in its budget, it's about those famous apartments. The Ministry of Health, HZZO has shown a billion and 600 million kunas of less expenditure as shown in, on page 319 of the state audit on the cover-up of the Croatian Railways debt of billions and 300 million, and showing outside the budget no longer needs to be repeated. I will just say and remind you that Croatia's highways have reduced the lack of income and expenditure by a billion 700 million pages of 401 state audits etc.. So, what did we start with? We started off from the river that snuck out of the trough. We started off with expenditures that are out of budget, and this government has returned the river to the trough is already a positive step. This is also the case with data on total income and expenditure, as well as the overall economic indicators resulting from this. Well, here's the revenue to repeat, is they're smaller than the plan, they're smaller than the 2.2% plan, but they're bigger than the revenue a year earlier by 7.7% or 6 billion 221 million kuna. It would be good if the next few years so much would increase their incomes. There was talk that these tax revenues failed. They're 4.1% higher than the taxes themselves. And from VAT, as much as 6.2%, which I think can also be quite well swallowed. And the contributions have been increased even by 7.5%. For example, health care revenues in January were 861 million and in December a billion and 160 million are very decent income increases and it is an honor to this government. When we talk about expenditures, these expenditures were within the framework of a plan that the government gave itself a tolerance. However, the most important thing to analyze is what these expenditures went to and where they grew. They have increased in the area of social expenditure and in the area of subsidies. In the area of subsidies, expenditures of €248 million had to be increased subsequently for the HH debt that was hidden outside the budget and that was compensated by the government. As for social expenditures, and it serves to honor this government and its social feelings because we inherited a rather unstable social situation in early 2004 and therefore social expenditure was increased by 9.7% and, to remind you, in 2003, only 5.2% increased in 2002, so, almost double the cost of social expenditure, let's remember they were also torn from maternity benefits, through child benefits, an increase in pension by 100 kuna plus 6%. So, when we analyze incomes and expenditures, of course there are criticisms, excise duties went up by 1.0 and some percent, of course, of course, of course, which suggests that the government needs to examine the reasons why excise duties aren't collected as expected and planned. This is only the first quarter of this government's mandate. And that first hardest neighborhood, it's always the first year of office that's the hardest. These revenues and expenditures are entirely within what is expected and promised even in some elements and beyond. What's beyond that? In economic indicators stemming from this and this budget. Employment and unemployment. We've heard this hall so many times you've had employment, unemployment growing. I think we have to say what objective statistics say, this is the year of the Croatian Employment Service, which says that in 2004, largely and because of the well-leaded budget, there were fewer 19 thousand 925 of which fewer unemployed men, 11 thousand 52 and fewer unemployed women, I point out that because some day the debate on gender equality said otherwise, there were fewer unemployed women for 8000 873 than in 2003. So I'd like to ask that when we're taking the data out to the original reference to make it credible. He's paying. Gross wages increased 6%, net wages 5.9%. For the first quarter of this government's mandate, for the first quarter very well. There was talk that this government is running a bad economic policy because it does not encourage exports. And why, for the first time in 2004, exports grew faster than imports. Exports covered imports by 48.3%, a year earlier with only 43%. So 5% is better coverage. Not to sleep on these laurels, but a good incentive to continue this way and to perfect it even more. Furthermore, as a consequence of this well-leaded budget, no one mentioned data from the money market. The money market is an important indicator of economic trends. The wake-up economy is best seen in the money market. According to the money market, Zagreb traffic amounted to HRK 38 billion in 2004. A year ago, 28 billion kuna. 10 billion kunas less. Or our Crobex and Crobix indices. Crobex is 32.1% higher and Crobis is 1.1% higher. The money market is an indicator of economic developments and a prognostic, very important prognostic factor if there are no unexpected turbulences. Loans were also talked about a lot, both domestic and domestic. I think it's a positive thing that continued the trend of increasing credit to citizens. He's 18.7% higher than a year ago. Someone's gonna say it, but in 2003 it increased by 25%. That's true, but these 18.7% is, are citizens more spent on fixed investment, on real estate and therefore is an increase in loans for residential savings and for housing construction as much as 26.6%, which is something that is permanent property. It's not spent well and it's certainly better quality than buying consumer goods. Just two words because I have so much time on external debt. The external debt is 31 December 2004. 22 billion 675 million or 82.1% of gross domestic product. But what is the dynamics of external debt? In 2003, external debt increased by 31.6%, and this year in 2004 by 14.5%. I agree with critics that domestic debt has been increased and that is also a lesson to the government and it will certainly draw out of this particular coincidence. And in the end, I would say the biggest compliment to run this economy. The international recognition of the compliment is that for the first time in 8 or 7 years, 7 seems to me, the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia has improved. That she was going up. It is a recognition for this implementation of the budget and for this kind of budget, and I think that in conclusion, objective criticism is welcome, but falsifying objective data cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38892	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38893	Says Dr. Hebrang: "This budget is being discussed differently as if it were two different books." And as if it were not two different books. Well, that's the joke, Dr. Hebrang. There are two books. One book that, the budget that was passed by the Croatian Parliament and another book that came here to which the Government had trampled the will of the Parliament, which you are now a member and made one of your own budgets. And sent a report on that budget of yours. That's two books, Dr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38894	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38895	Speaking of his colleague Hebrang's data, he's trying to say higher incomes, controlled expenditures. He just forgot to say that the difference between income and expenditure is 4 billion kuna, and it was planned to be slightly less than two billion. So two billion is the difference between income and expenditure. Two billion new loans. Two billion, which totalises 10 billion of Croatia's new debt. Or a new public debt. So something obviously in those numbers isn't worth it. So let us read the figures to the end, and let us not boast of something that does not stand. But then there's the basics. Those two billion SDPs would always support that it was going into development, but it didn't go into development. It went into uncontrolled consumption, consumption. More for the SDP, but the European Union and the IMF share lessons and seek responsibility for all of us precisely because we do not control that consumption. I will also be happy to compare 2005 and the foreign currency deficit in the current payment account. Because you know, I know how to count ships and we can often be against shipbuilding, but we're going to count the ships that were dedicated in 2004 and 2005. It will be nice if you stay on export coverage as it was in 2004. It's just, unfortunately, there'll be fewer ships. And one more thing. When we talk about external debt, we forget one fact. Stock reserves at 24 billion debts as the final balance was in 31.12.2003 were close to $5.7 billion. Now they've fallen to 5.2 billion. An alarming trend to lower reserves. And the debt came to 34 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38896	Thank you. Replication response. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38897	Thank you very much. Mr. Linic's Honored Representative is right when he says that by two billion our plans differ from the realization. But you have to say why? Because he left us such a budget that it took us six months to figure out which ministry was that outside the budget someone owed? Because it wasn't transparently shown. And while we were discovering these unplanned and unscheduled and unproven losses, of course we were planning a completely different number. After we planned it, we found that we had to pay another seven and a half billion debts to the previous government. And that's why the difference between planned and realised. As for these stories of two different texts. The text is one. It was established by the Croatian Government and I hope today and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38898	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38899	A colleague of Hebrang says in his debate where we started, but we should also say where we came from. At this point we are discussing that the losses of hospitals will cover the county, not the state from its small budget. There is talk of introducing new participations for health services. As we can see today, without Parliament, the government is increasing budget costs by 250 million kuna. The deficit is re-produced according to the monetary method only to avoid showing debts at the end of 2004 because then the deficit would show something else. The debt has only been increased in one year by 10 billion kuna. No new investment projects. Investments in fixed capital, as said in the Croatian National Bank's report, fell most strongly compared to the period until 2000, by 12.4 percentage points compared to the year before. So that's all the data that we really need to worry about because we won't be able to control the expenditure if we don't have an increase in revenue. The increased incomes can only be made in two ways. Short-term tax hikes we did last year and what we'll probably do in this year, but it's short-lived. The population and the economy cannot handle high taxes unless there is a possibility of investment and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38900	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38901	Thank you very much. Dear Sir, the Honorable Madam Prosecution spoke about the financial indicators for the current year 2005, and we are discussing the State Budget for 2004. However, the answer needs to be made so that it does not turn out unspeakable for our public. She mentioned that we owe health care something. We don't owe anything. At this point, there are no outstanding health debts. The total debt is 3 and a half billion which is very good because it was inherited 7.3 billion, the total debt. Don't forget we had to pay two and a half billion HZZO loans from business banks in June. That we had to pay a billion unproven losses to HZZO and unrepresented in the budget. So there's no panic. The health system is stable at the moment, but the second question is whether the future budget can withstand a burden of 8 and a half to 9% of GDP for health care. That's what we're discussing. If we're going to talk about this year, then we're going to say that investments continue at the same pace this year and that the increase in investment was as much as 20% in 2004. That trend continues. Therefore, even here, the information was not correct. I think we should objectively show our people the situation, not bring it into some illusion that we're in a right-wing situation. Economic indicators for 2004 are better in all elements than for the total European Union. The entire European Union had a growth in gross national income by 1.5% by 3.8%. The European Union had a decrease in employment in total, we had a 1.5% drop in unemployment. We need to tell the people the truth that he trusts his country and his government no matter who he is or when he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38902	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38903	Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State. Mr. Assistant Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's to this very end of the almost-all-day debate on the proposal for an annual calculation of the state budget as the new one is called, alone to say a few words. I do not at all dispute that both Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Niko Raic are certainly one of the most competent persons in the Ministry of Finance and in the entire government and certainly has reason to sit here. Today, however, we are discussing a state budget that gives a presentation of the policy of one government, one government over a year, and certainly the finance minister should sit here if not the prime minister and several other members of the government are certainly the prime ministers in order to give one seriousness to this debate as a whole and to be able to respond to the criticisms and remarks that can be heard from these lines. This government's behaviour means it has shown not only unseriousness, regardless of which I have no doubt that they are justifiably prevented from meeting with the Slovenian government, but then I ask the question of today's debate we could have done yesterday or left for another day. It must have been known in advance that the government is not here today. It shows also the scandalous behaviour of the Government because we have methodologically obtained data from not the state budget that we voted in late 2003 or in rebalancing in 6 months 2004, but the technical rebalancing of the 12 months budget by the Government without any other data. The question arises why the government hides that data, it would be called "the snake's feet". There were objections here to the date of the fraud. Well, I will not use the term of fraud, but we can talk about the term of deception not only of Croatian parliamentary representatives but also of the general Croatian citizens. Because I really don't know what to discuss when there's no other data here, or we don't know what the government would want us to discuss except what they might want to hear. And I have to say that we would be really happy if we could give this government a compliment, but really no matter how hard we try, it's just impossible. In this debate, all I can do is try to show the absurdity of the current government's policy, which, in a desire to show its perfection, turns out to be funny sometimes. I simply believe that Croatia does not move in this way. In Russian history, there was a character, I think it was called Potenkin who built non-existent settlements and then the Russian peaks passed through these villages and were terribly satisfied, but there was no help to that state or government. And that's why I wouldn't want this government to be a role model for this Russian-era character. I was a member of the executive and I know some things about budgeting, as I know and how to plan the costs in certain ministries and how it is impossible for certain items to reach 100% of the execution. Because it's impossible to plan on that amount of funding. And then they seemed to be redistributing, they seemed to be corrections, but never in the way that we've been delivered by this proposal for an annual calculation of the state budget. Let us take an example from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, as it is now called. I think there was a clear state of affairs in that ministry without any debts, if debt is possible, that is, always talking about some debt left behind by that former government. There were no million debts left behind from this ministry. The budget of the ministry, what I said and when it was adopted in its original form at the end of 2003, does not differ significantly from the budget that was in 2003, except for the pension funds, some 500 million transferred from the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, so in principle, no matter what we are talking about here, the enormous cost increase in this ministry at least for Croatian defenders did not change anything important, but I will show this in the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences which did not come into the parliamentary procedure after 6 months. Let's take it in a row. And I'd like it if you'd already denied me that you would then do it with a replica so that I could respond to any untruths that will be made after this speech I've spoken. Because I assure you that what you're about to say absolutely does not match the truth. Let's start with a few things. Let's get an item on the phone, mail, and transportation. 684 thousand kuna are planned and says 683 thousand 936 kuna or 99.99%. So let's start with ourselves. Whether someone can plan phone costs for their own household not a year in advance but often not a month in advance. Because no matter how much we spend or how much we keep ourselves under control, often prices can change themselves. Simply 99.90% is absolutely impossible to achieve. Or we move on, a little higher figure. Employment of Croatian defenders, the plan is 31 million 700 thousand, and the execution is 31 million 661 thousand 857 or 99.88. This 99.88 already seems a little more realistic. However, if we know that some ministry officials have been charged with corruption and bribes, and if we know that jobs in that ministry have been suspended for several months then the question is raised, so when they spent 99.88% of the funds and spent it on purpose, and especially if we know that the number of unemployed Croatian defenders has not been reduced, they did not decrease in 2000 as it was reduced during the non-national government as it could be heard on the left hand side, they are now increasing by 2,000 people per year. Or we move on, an even bigger number, a nine-digit one. Permanent rights, there are personal disability, family disability and compensation of 654 million 856 thousand and something kuna, and the execution is 654 million 835 thousand 699. It says 100% here, although the truth should be 99.997%. However, I would always put 99.99% no matter what mathematically it may be 100%, but let someone tell me who can normally plan 654 million kuna funds for several tens of thousands of rights users if we know that the number of rights users from month to month is changing. Only one who's going to bring this budget rebalance to 31.12, means the last day of that year. And another piece of information. Here's the interesting, marking of mass graves from the Homeland War planned a million 982 thousand and 500, and a million 938 thousand and something, 97.76%. The percentage is not controversial, however, the one who knows is controversial, two or three mentions of the features were discovered last year. Every year, at least 10 to 12 mentions are planned, and I don't really know how these 98% happened. And let me get this straight. A responsible government would never allow itself such indignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38904	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38905	Mr. President, I'm going to correct just one incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Pancic, in which he stated that his ministry did not leave behind any debts. I'll just remind you of no debts other than those seven contracts you made when you were no longer a minister, only those 7 debts for medical equipment remained transparently shown in the discussion we had before, which you didn't even say today where these funds were spent and which is why the decision concluded the contracts when your mandate had already expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38906	A fellow Pancic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38907	My colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure because I immediately said... That lie, Article 214. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That was already...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38908	Don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38909	And I wish you wouldn't use lies, so you wouldn't use lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38910	No, I know we'd love to, but one is love of truth and the other is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Ivo Banac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38911	Mr. President, allow me to correct the guilty, or pessimistic conclusion of my colleague Pancic, because after the attempt of Prince Ponpyonkin, the Russian Imperial Authority has lasted another century and a half, which we hope will not be the case with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38912	Let's hope so, by book. I'm closing the debate. Let's get ready to vote. Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 I am voting on the proposal for an annual account. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. He was supposed to do the work of Finomechanics, not Siemens. ... Representative Jarnjak, come in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38914	I suggest... I suggest that you vote manually, too. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-06-10-0.u38915	The microphones don't work either, yeah. Well, then we have to vote manually. Please, who's in favour of this 2004 annual accounting proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? That's the result? When he's got two hands, and he's not three. 73 for, 24 against, 1 abstention. With that ratio of strength, this annual reckoning was accepted. We still have one conclusion about that. A report on the use of the 2004 budget stock is hereby adopted. Please, who's up for it? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Or be held back? 68 for, 31 against. The majority accepted a report on the use of the 2004 budget stock.
