ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30886	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By obtaining the first positive opinion of the European Commissions, then also the positive decisions of the Council of Ministers and of the European Council, Croatia has made great progress in achieving its strategic objective in relations with the European Union on what there is a broad political consensus in the country. Croatia has thus become the first country involved in a stabilisation and accession process that has been confirmed by the European perspective. The acquisition of candidate status determines Croatia's overall political and economic development over the next medium term. There has also been significant progress in meeting the Copenhagen criteria, in particular as regards key political conditions, economic criteria and implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is an important step towards membership in the European Union. Accordingly, for 2005 for the third time Croatia has drawn up a national programme for Croatia to join the EU in 2005 with the European Commission. It is like the previous years, so the NPPE in 2003 and the NPPE in 2004 was based on Article 69. Stabilisation and Association Agreements but since this year and the basis of the Council Decision on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with Croatia. The co-ordination of this Programme is entrusted to the Ministry of European Integration, which, following the unification of the entire document, referred to the adoption process to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After adoption by the Government at a session on 9 December 2004, the national programme was sent to the Croatian Parliament to provide you with complete information on all activities related to the accession process to the European Union. As with previous years, the adoption of Appendix A of the national programme containing a list of all the laws to be implemented in 2005 with the acquis of the European Union is envisaged. By taking such a commitment, the Parliament is expressing its determination and contribution to achieving the common objective of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, which has reached a broad political consensus which has also been confirmed in last night's Joint Declaration and Parliament Declaration. This impressive document contains total activities under each membership criterion. The setting of priorities set out in the national programme is based on several sources including the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2003-2007 programme, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Implementation Plan of the Agreement, the European Partnership, the opinion of the European Commission and the pre-accession economic programme. In this way, the national programme reflects the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to achieve all short and medium-term priorities through the implementation of concrete measures in the process of approaching the European Union with an emphasis on 2005. Special attention is paid to the priorities highlighted in the European Partnership, which are related to this particular area, and the activities foreseen for 2005 are, to the greatest extent possible, in line with the fulfilment of these priorities. Starting with the European Partnership, the national programme for 2005 focused on several topics that pose a challenge on the path towards the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Fulfillment of politically conditioned criteria, economic adjustment, harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, strengthening administrative capacity to implement reforms, communication strategy of the Republic of Croatia for informing the Croatian public on the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to European integration, budgetary allocations for implementation of commitments arising from the integration process. What have we changed into the National Programme for 2005? First, we have linked all European activities to the state budget. For the first time in the 2005 National Association Programme, all activities are legislative, educational, institutional and other related to the allocations from the 2005 budget. Thus, any concrete activity is described in the legislative harmonisation work as well as in strengthening administrative capacity directly linked to State budget funds. In this respect, we did not limit ourselves to 2005 but we also tried to show a projection of the detachment from the 2006 and 2007 budget. The illustrations are working, noting that the government will allocate a total of 611 million 711 million 368 kuna to the European Union for the purposes of approaching it from the state budget, worth 0.74% of GDP for 2005. In 2006, this amount was planned to increase and would amount to a billion 992 million 360 thousand 708 kuna, which would amount to 0.85% of GDP, while in 2007, it would be 2 billion 112 million 409 million 243 kuna, also 0.85% of GDP. Therefore, in the period from 2005 to 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allocate 5 billion 716 million 319 kuna for the purposes of approximation from which the largest amount is planned to be allocated for the field of science and research, about 2.5 billion kuna in the period from 2005 to 2007. Secondly, although the national programme is being adopted for 2005 we have taken a step further through this programme. We also showed planned activities for 2006 and 2007. This not only takes a strategic approach to setting priorities but we create continuity and a link between all the steps that lead to the ultimate goal. On the basis of these projections, the planned funding from the state budget was also developed. I note that at this point it is about announcements of activities in 2006 and 2007 as well as announcements of budget allocations. Both will be defined by each year's programmes. Given that the key to our success lies in the strength of the institutions, this programme highlighted exactly the importance that the government attaches to further institutional reform as well as its willingness to deal with the challenges of future membership. In particular, in Chapter 4, which is dedicated to this particular topic for each chapter of the State Administration body, they have drawn up very detailed examples of the establishment of new institutions and of the strengthening of existing institutions. Also, the whole chapter was created on a three-year basis and connected to the state budget. So in the table, we presented all the strategic documents on which institutional measures are based, results achieved during 2004, details of the overall process of further institutional strengthening in 2005, all the needs arising from the process: equipment, human capacities, education, improvement, and even the needs of editing facilities. Finally, the institutional activities for 2006 and 2007. Content chapters remain the same as in recent years. However, in the text section, we have installed new two subtitles based on the European Partnership, and the basic structure of each chapter includes the following: First, the short-term priorities of harmonisation of legislation based on the European Partnership, second, medium-term priorities of harmonisation of legislation based on the European Partnership. The 2007 projections also seek to provide for legislative measures based on the medium-term priorities of the European Partnership, which significantly improves the quality of legal chapter 3 as this allows for the introduction of laws and sublaws for 2006 and 2007. Why access like this? I believe that this approach, based on three years of projections, will allow us to systematically conduct future negotiations in which we will represent our interests. Furthermore, this approach significantly facilitates the planning of activities and foresees, in advance, everything necessary to achieve the ultimate objective, and also significantly facilitates the preparation of the budget. The national programme for 2005 brings before the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Assembly of the new 36 draft laws. At the same time, it provides for the adoption of 168 sublegislative acts and 135 measures under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement implementation plan for 2005. The opening of membership negotiations this year will begin to analyse and assess the level of compliance of our regulations with the acquis of the European Union. Given that we will then receive a realistic assessment of the level of compliance, I announce that these figures are not final and that during 2005 when this process is completed, we will carry out a review of the programme and supplement it with legal acts that we will assess necessary for further harmonisation by the end of next year. The 2005 National Programme is a major step towards achieving state and foreign policy, achieving the readiness needed for Croatia's full membership in the European Union by 2007. In doing so, internal reforms, general consolidation of the system, stronger economic development and more intensive external policy, external policy action in areas affecting the dynamics of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union are a key prerequisite for the return to full membership of the European Union over the next few years. Accordingly, Croatia's efforts over the next few years will be aimed at fully harmonising Croatia's legislation with the acquis of the European Union and strengthening institutions that will implement adopted regulations. This process will be followed by the adjustment of the economic system with a view to establishing an effective market economy and strengthening domestic competitiveness. The readiness for membership in the Union is also an instrument for strengthening Croatia and its better preparation for integration into wider globalisation processes. I propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt Appendix (a) with a list of legislative activities to be adopted during 2005 as part of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30887	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP counseling club. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30888	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I have to say to me is rights as Eurorealists, and not Eurosceptics, we might talk a little differently about this plan to bring our legislation into line with the European Union's gains. First of all, it should be said that this meeting of the Croatian Parliament has great responsibility in front of it mainly because of the fact that part of Croatia's legislation will be weighed right in our mandate to comply with the legal gains of the European Union and therefore we must be responsible because we will remain recorded in history. I hope that we will not remain recorded in that we were the holders of the legislative stampede and that we will not know in the end what regulations we have adopted, what laws and how we have done that part of the harmonisation of our legislation with the legal gains of the European Union because I am saying this because of the fact that we can only take an analysis of our work last year when we have seen ourselves what bad regulations translate the European Union directive we have received here on our representative benches. Mahom used to do this all in an emergency procedure because each of these characters had exactly a P.Z.E. label, and in most of these laws we had literal translations of the European Union directive. So we had totally literal translations at the last session and those cases of Minister Vukelic and other ministers who had obviously read neither the ministers themselves nor the government's professional services did their part by submitting more than 30, 40 amendments that were essentially bad translations. So the President of Parliament himself had to protest, and that part of us must no longer allow ourselves. We've had cases and Minister Calmette's in sync and so we've got translations that were missing and page. So we got it so that it went from Article 15 to Article 25, and the article started without a paragraph and without a mark on what it refers to. And it's this great danger, and if we don't agree on how we're going to do it here and do it, we can cause one huge legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty is not only for those who will apply because no one will be able to comply with and implement these rules anymore. So we need to be aware of Europe doesn't care where we keep the piano. Are we gonna keep him in the middle of the room, on the ceiling? She's interested in the fact that this piano works means that this piano is well-produced by the melodics that are required of it. And that is why it is important that in this process of harmonisation, the Government must take an important step because the state administration at this point is not able to do this great task, is not sufficiently teamed up, and in this part of the sea and the Parliament must take steps to be stronger and professional services within the board so that they can carry out this part of the work responsibly because of the fact that we ourselves have seen that no one simulates the application and implementation of all this, but only so far a literal translation of the European Union directive has been carried out and now talk to any lawyers who are not in this section and cannot be sufficiently monitored. Especially in a way that we don't know what we brought ourselves without the government knowing what he suggested. It is a huge problem, and we must not go there like geese in the fog, but we must agree on how and how to take measures so as not to remain recorded in history as a convocation of the Parliament who, who was the holder of the legislative stampede. The very fact that this year we're going to have 36 regulations, 168 regulations, and 135 measures from that accession agreement. It speaks of significant legislative activity. If we take just a comparison of how many laws we've passed in our colluding not to talk about that convocation, then you can run an analysis of how many sublegal regulations have not been passed. In each area, it is a sad fact that every law requires the adoption of a large number of sublaws. Do an analysis and see that in many areas 40% of sublegal regulations have not been passed. And we ourselves know as enforcers that most laws cannot be directly applicable because of the fact that sublegal regulations need to be passed, and in all laws there is a obligation either by the Government or by the Prime Minister to adopt sublegal regulations within 6 months or 3 months. And then it's said that it's an instructive term so it's not binding if the government or the ministry doesn't act on time. For this reason, it is necessary to take measures in due time, and so we suggest that this part of the harmonisation is not carried out if it is possible by emergency procedure to carry out the first and second reading, so that the second readings are already prepared and the proposals of the regulations that will follow that part, where the simulation will be done, and see what it brings. Because we need to be aware that that part of the alignment has two parts. The first part refers to the already passed regulations of the European Union, where the stunt is to be harmonised. And the second part concerns what the European Union is constantly making new regulations. Therefore, it is important to ensure that one base of law means whether it will be the Ministry of European Integration, whether it will be some other body, which is that it must immediately be translated into all those rules and which are now being adopted in the European Union. So you'd be able to track it, because all of this tomorrow we're going to have to directly or state administration or to the citizens and lawyers to apply it. So we'd have a lot of info and to spend what needs to be done in good time. Because I don't know where they're going to take us so far, I can say that we can cause such a situation to create one legal uncertainty. Therefore, we must really take measures and be aware that this is a very serious job, a serious job that also applies to the legal security of citizens to all other parts. And I don't want that much in the final part, so don't talk about the contents for so long. But what is predicted in the field of health means additional restrictions and the collection of health services for Croatian citizens. When gokovori on the area of pension insurance, it is not well written to pensioners about how to coordinate pensions and everything else. There are also a lot of things that we are opposed to in the field of work and employment. But unfortunately, there are also things that we, in the opposition, suggested either in criminal law or in other legislation, which were not accepted in the memento when we suggested, say, the extension of the limitation period and everything else. And now it's going to be a compliance obligation. So let us agree to do this by not being the bearers of the legislative stampede, to be responsible and to know what we are doing and to have a picture and a vision of how we are going to apply it because this way so far the experience so far says that it will not be done well if we do so. Therefore, there is the greatest responsibility in the government, its professional services and ours as well. But it's on us, too. Appellate means to take this job seriously, and the days will be recorded in the post of eating as a convocation of the Croatian Parliament that caused the legislative stampede. And caused legal uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30889	Thank you. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is a respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30890	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In just over 2 months, the process of membership negotiations in the European Union begins. Date j17. March Republic of Croatia welcomes ready. One of the reasons for this readiness is the proactive progress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is carrying out in the process of joining the European Union. The proactive progress is primarily reflected in the implementation of all preconditions that will allow it to enter quickly into the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has continuously met all the compensatory and Madrid criteria, as well as specific political criteria. The SWE reforms that Croatia implements in meeting these criteria from judicial reform, economic and structural reforms to state administration reform and strengthening administrative capacity. They are contained in the basic document of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. This document clearly reads the very proactive progress of the Republic of Croatia. The national accession progharm of the European Union has been adopted for the third year in a row, which is proof that Croatia has been preparing seriously for membership for several years before the start of the negotiation process itself. The national programme is a complete demonstration of the fulfilment of the political and economic criteria for the approximation of the European Union and the degree of harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union. A presentation of the reforms Croatia is taking. It is also the central management mechanism for activities in the field of European integration for a given year. Its structure makes clear all the activities the Government is carrying out and will implement in meeting the membership criteria. By reading this document, we are facing increased work in 2005 to fully meet the political and legal criteria for membership. It is also evident that special attention will be paid to the development of a modern and efficient state administration that should be able to bear the burden of full legal economic reform. The Appendix A of the National Programme, which is the subject of adoption by the Croatian Parliament, contains a list of legislative measures to be developed and adopted during 2005. And with which national legislation will also be harmonised with European Union regulations. This list contains 36 laws to draw up 168 sublaws and 135 measures provided for in the plan to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is a large number of documents showing that the Croatian Parliament will also play an important role in the process of bringing Croatia closer to the European Union in 2005. It imposes efficiency and accountability if we want to follow the express preparedness, to complete the process of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union as soon as possible and within a short time. For these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2005 add-on to the National Pr Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30891	Thank you. Representatives' club SDP respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30892	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Right away in, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to commend this job done by the authorities of the State Administration in drawing up such a comprehensive document. At the same time, at the same time, I would like to express one dissatisfaction on behalf of the SDP Club with the very information of the Parliament in the implementation of the National Programme for the past 2004. Unfortunately, the parliament has not received a single report on the implementation of the National Programme and the legislative alignment plan for that year. In 2004, the government did not send a single report to the Parliament on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, although the November 2001 Parliament's conclusion required the government to submit those reports every 6 months. The parliament is thus not familiar with the revision and additions of the 2004 acquis that was to be carried out in June of the same year, so we do not know whether the plan has been amended at all and whether it has been supplemented. We would like it not to be about the attempts of deliberately insulating the Parliament from the European integration process, but if it is about neglect and the need to keep the Parliament informed throughout the process, then we still believe that it is an inadmissible violation of its constitutional role and that this should not happen again this and in the coming years. It is of particular importance that the legislative adjustment plan be drawn up as one whole document, which would not only cover the one-year plan, but a review of all laws that must be harmonised by the end of the process, i.e. by 2007. Only then could we know here, and also assess what we are doing in this year 2005 and whether the adoption of these certain 36 laws that will therefore be harmonised this year is much or little, whether it is enough or insufficient in relation to the total number of harmonisation laws by 2007. That's the only way we can give an evaluation of the plan of activity for this year. It is our assessment that we are halfway across the road today in harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union and that by the end of 2007, we may need to bring 200 more laws in line. Therefore, it seems to us that the number of 36 harmonisation laws in 2005 is too small and unambitious. But also to maintain some level of knowledge in the relevant ministries, I guess not enough about all the obligations of the legal gain of the European Union and the total work that each individual ministry must carry out per person. It is therefore extremely important for the government to point to the real scope of the legislative work that the Parliament will have in the next 3 years. That this year's legislative harmonisation plan is not complete and that the ministries do not approach it with sufficient due attention can be confirmed when the plan is compared with the government's statement in materials for this session, that the issues it is trying to raise. Here, for example, solve Club IDS in its proposal for a law on ownership and other real rights to include in the Government's proposal for the same law that the government is claiming to be preparing. However, the Law of Ownership and other real rights of this bill, i.e. the necessary need for it to be changed at all, does not exist in these 36 laws in this year's legislative harmonisation plan. Although the matter of this law certainly falls, I think we will all agree on this, in the area of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. There is no real and methodologically correct assessment of the effects of individual legal solutions in the National Programme. It's being achieved somewhere, and then it's losing track. It is estimated that the harmonisation of legislation in 2005 will cost the State budget 1.6 billion kuna, i.e. 5.5 billion kuna, by 2007. The question arises whether these assessments are reliable when there is no real impact assessment at all and there is no list of laws to be amended by 2007. There, and from this you can see the necessity of such a projection, or such a plan that needs to be presented here to the Parliament for the next 3 years. We therefore propose that the Government commit itself to the revision of the National Programme and the legislative harmonisation plan in June 2005 when taking into account the results of the legislative harmonisation review to be carried out with the European Commission since March. Then it is an opportunity to make this even more ambitious legislative adjustment plan. For comparison, our data suggests that 163 laws with the legal property of the European Union were in full compliance between 2001 and 2003 and only in 2003. In 2004, there was a significant reduction in the harmonisation of 46 envisaged laws in the Plan for Legislative Adjustment of Parliament, so the 46-law plan was also considered to be unambitious, however, unfortunately, the Parliament managed to pass only 33 laws of the so-called 46. And for 2005, the plan is already less ambitious than last year. So, just 36 laws, and then what's going to be a little less realisation of the plan, we'll see about that. And that's why we're proposing that, in particular, I stress that in June 2005 we do this one revision and we start with that, with a much more ambitious plan. We propose that the Government report on the implementation of the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the period 2001 to 2004 be submitted to the Parliament as soon as possible. So our basic observation is that the plan is quite unambitious, that it is somewhere too narrow, that it will definitely need to be complemented. However, somewhere, we do not seem to need to go into coordination at all because they do not see rational reasons. For example, an amendment to the Law on Croatian Radio Television is envisaged in order to make adjustments, the need to comply with European Union standards. However, we all know that in 2003 a law was passed that we have completely, with amendments that we have fully complied with, therefore, with all the directives of the European Union. The question, therefore, is whether or not something has missed, since that definition is not sufficient, therefore, to amend this Law because of the need for harmonisation. Where that Law is fully in line with the directives and standards of the European Union. Well, then we ask and ask for an explanation, but in any case, the SDP Club will make a special amendment to that point. Therefore, these criticisms and warnings, which I say on behalf of the SDP Club, should certainly not be regarded as any imposition in this joint business that has done the former, which is also done by the current Government, but which is also a job of the future government, but as a well-intentioned, constructive apparition in the best way to end the great deal of these legislative adaptations to the standards of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30893	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30894	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. So here at the very beginning I want to say a few sentences about what was brought here yesterday, I would say one common consensus of all of us here the importance that we have given to all of these processes that are ahead of us. I wouldn't interpret here, perhaps, some of the things that happened in the event of the vote were some unclean force, but I don't suppose there's any sign of anything in that part, but I mean to convince anyone in that part of the thing that we're all together with one common consensus for the European Union and that it's certainly not questionable at all. The question is, what we need to talk about here openly is what I personally think there must be no figs in the pocket, so we need to know what the difference is in the approach itself and what we want. I can't be here without saying that we have some negotiation and some bad experience, I, Madam Minister, will remember all those conversations we had about Protocol 7. I would say that yesterday we solved a large part of the problem because then everything we wanted at the HSS Club is that all negotiations with the European Union and in this respect are transparent, public, no secrecy, to be seen by the Croatian public. I think we did it yesterday, but unfortunately we have that part of the worse experience, and I believe it won't happen again. I believe that yesterday we are all aware that we must all move in one direction towards agreeing on an active policy. This active policy I believe is not and is not asked of us to be just a nod or to be in some way a confirmation of what the Government is proposing or negotiators but must be an active role. I will try in my part of the speech and in this on behalf of the HSS and give one active approach to all of this and say that we at the HSS Club will, at all times, be active, propose, actively participate and that if they ask us to be here to help in that part, although we may not agree at all. I think we should start with those concrete things that have been imposed on us here and maybe solve some, some issues that may be avoided at times. I personally had the opportunity to speak to the Commissioners of the European Union and here is when our chief negotiator was with me two years ago with Mr. Fisher and these talks are extremely difficult. But if we had strong common positions, if we knew I would simplify it, if we knew what we wanted then we could fight for certain things. And that's one important part of that part and it doesn't need to fall under the influence of European bureaucracy in any way because it's sometimes just on the first wave of sharpness. I know it won't be easy because here are the European negotiators sharpened, they've done those 10 countries almost shut down two of these countries, Romania and Bulgaria, they certainly have one great team to oppose Croatia. I believe that, apart from the main negotiator, we, Madam Minister, will make a real team that will be able to stand up to such a strong team of the European Union. However, sometimes some signals that know how to come from the European Union, and I will give only one example, and the minister will draw from this what should be derived from and as a lesson, is that we are given some signals for certain people that are very harsh negotiators, that they are not quite acceptable on the part of Brussels, etc., I think that it must always be rejected that we need people who know matter, people who, in any case, and know, put themselves in one firm position. Of course, at the end of all, there will be an assessment and no one can look closely at one small area and not give it, I would say, an opportunity for general national interests. However, I will now try to be very specific about what we may have missed, but perhaps we can make up for it. What I will concentrate on agriculture and on the problems of agriculture itself because I believe there is something to say about it and only harmonisation tells us that almost 30 to 50% of total legislation and this job will be about agriculture, forestry, environmental protection, one segment that is extremely important. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not taken advantage of my chance to adapt in the 2005 budget to joining the European Union. To remind you, there have been a number of amendments to the agricultural budget segment which have unfortunately been rejected. What am I saying that for? The new member states did not receive the same level of incentives as the old member states in the negotiation process. This year, farmers in the new Member States receive 25% of the amounts received by farmers in the old Member States. This amount increases by 5% each year and will only be equal for all European Union countries in 2013. However, exceptions exist and that is what we always talk about and what we will talk about should be discussed about exceptions. I think we're all aware here together, even though we're talking about negotiations, it's actually about harmonisation and there are some exceptions, I think it's some reality. When we talk about this exemption, it exists when incentives in candidate countries are equal or greater than incentives in the European Union. In such a case, the new Member State will be entitled to an equal level of incentives as the old Member State. As a result, it is extremely important for Croatian incentives to increase at least to the level of incentives in the European Union so that our farmers, after membership, are in the same position as the other countries. the old Member States. I think we've got here a few of these laws that are proposed, we don't think enough, we're going to be active in that part, I'm going to officially refer to the Minister's proposal for a series of laws that we consider, just some of them I'm going to mention here. I think only six harmonisation laws are mentioned in this proposal, and agriculture is an important area that could only be mentioned in those six laws. What may also be very important to say is what is seen from the National Programme that we are late in some things. I think we need to be aware that some things need to be accelerated. I wouldn't be talking about some very specific things here right now, but we've been talking, and I'm going to remind Mrs. Secretary when we talk about the budget that she was alone when we talked about Protocol 7, she said, "so I'm aware of the difficult situation in agriculture I'll personally make an effort when the budget is rebalanced and something will increase." Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but I think it has to go that way because we're going to have a lot of problems and I think this complexity of agriculture is extremely, extremely important to us. As for the part of the law that should still be amended, what is not done enough is in any case the agency. I will only mention the paying agency within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the SAPARD Agency. I think you're familiar with that part. Unfortunately, it's not going at that pace, it's transferring jobs from 2004 to 2005. We're talking about some 25 million euro money waiting for us, they're waiting for us if we institutionally prepare, if we don't institutionally prepare then there won't be any of that money. I think it's an important issue and that the task and the chief negotiator will be, but especially the ministers, to perhaps warn their colleagues at times. Yes, there are funds, they exist in front of access funds, but if we don't institutionally prepare, then they almost don't exist for us. It's part of the job we're going to have to do in the ministries themselves that need to be prepared in that section. We also hold that for example in this proposal for the first quarter, i.e. until the date of the agricultural negotiations, it is necessary to amend the Law on State aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on the Agricultural Chamber, the Law on Water and the Law on the financing of the water economy. It is also important to adopt a proposal for a Law on the Encouragement of Domestic Production in Tourism. A little while when we were thinking about this whole subject when I was preparing myself, I tried to get information about something that was most important for agriculture, which is the most important reference years. The reference years that will enter our average, the reference years that will decide on our quotas for our production, I would say in everything that is extremely important for agriculture. For most years, reference years most of the experience is about all the countries that have now entered the European Union, some have been taken in the last few years. Unfortunately, they rule out those years that are extreme. Thus, we, for example, in 2003 when we had extreme drought, will be able to rule out. It would be interesting here, therefore, to think of 2005 as a reference year that if we did make these changes that I was talking about earlier, we could still give us some better starting positions that we could use. There is a taboo theme that has been told me from all circles as if it were almost impossible, that is, is it possible for Croatia as one of the reference years to get some year before the war? All the experts say it's impossible, but I'm opening up, we open up a taboo topic, maybe it's possible to talk there, because we're all probably aware of what any war years ago in agriculture means, unlike all those we had afterwards. I don't insist, I give it as a suggestion to think, you'll see in everything that's possible about it. So these two things matter to me. Let's see if it's possible, that it means maybe we don't open up a chapter of agriculture, here's like one thinking right away in 2005, but only at the end of 2006, and let's keep it here in 2005, but let's definitely prepare it as one really reference year, because it means a lot to us. As regards the amendment of the Law on State aid in agriculture, fisheries and forestry other than this increase in the total amount of aid. I think it is necessary to make some adjustments urgently, which is the ones that are already known in the countries, our neighbours, which are members of the European Union, i.e. an increase in the amount of incentives in a way that is equal to incentives for war cultures by groups, and certainly also for olives in this part and that we have one I would say a similar structure as it also does in the European Union. To amend Article 7 of the Law on State aid in agriculture, as it enables the Government to determine itself the height of the incentives, i.e. according to the possibility of financial resources. We also had a debate on the topical hour, which is the height of the incentive, but apparently because of insufficient financial resources, the law does not prescribe what the Croatian Parliament has brought, for example, the incentive for corn, instead of the prescribed 1200 kuna, is only 800 kuna because there is no financial resources. We suggest that this is regulated, however, and that the law in that part is respected, not that this article 7 is applied, which is restrictive, because I think we all agree that there is no and there is not enough funding in agriculture. I think it's important to eliminate the minimally encouraged amount as a condition of obtaining incentives, because I think it's important to increase production, so every restriction needs to be lifted. I personally know that neither the European Union has a 3 hectares limit, but it has an incentive for every hectare. We had this one targeted guideline about it and I don't think it's necessary in that direction anymore. And here you should take that chance. Elimination of the reference yields as a condition for obtaining incentives and introducing something we certainly need, something applied by all the European Union countries, which is to introduce market interventions when there is a major decline in prices on the market. We when we have now, I would say the realistically solid prices on the market regarding agricultural products especially that cattle section, then we're not talking about it, but we remember, we know times in which it was extremely problematic when almost the prices of pigs fell below 7 kuna that I'm not talking about the price of heroia etc. What I particularly point out are amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. The acquisition of ownership of agricultural land is conditional on a 10-year life in the Republic of Croatia, and it is limited that only a natural person can own agricultural land up to a maximum of 300 hectares. This amendment shall be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 52. There was such a proposal, it was no newspaper, I assure you such a almost similar law has Hungary. In Hungary no one who does not live for eight years and has no residence for eight years in Hungary can own land and no one as a natural person can own more than 300 hectares. I think it's necessary all other concessions, leases, etc. but when we talk about ownership, when we talk about the national goods that I think we all have to protect, then I think that such a restriction, which allows us to the Constitution that tells us that agricultural land is of national interest and I don't think that it will be in line with some of the legislation of the European Union. What is important is to speed up the sale of agricultural land owned by the country to farmers as a priority form of availability to agricultural state land. In the negotiations, however, on the acquisition of the ownership of foreigners over agricultural land and real estate in protected natural values, ask for a delay in the application of a more liberal ownership regime for foreigners compared to the rules that will exist at the moment of the start of negotiations of 18 years from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia. We know that she got Poland the most in that part, so 12 years. Therefore, we propose here for Croatia for 18 years. What hasn't been a lot of words so far, what's a newspaper, we suggest passing the Agricultural Chamber Act. The agricultural chamber was established in some countries of the European Union, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, France, with the aim of promoting and protecting and representing the interests of agricultural holdings and fishermen, the advisory function which it performs in any case. I think the Agricultural Chamber is a necessity, that law is prepared, it was prepared a year and a few days ago. If it is not going to go with it, I will personally launch an initiative to put it in the process, I think it is important and will contribute to these negotiations, because I think that the support of certain structures, certain associations, certain segments of society, is particularly necessary. The adoption of the Bill on the Encouragement of Domestic Production in Tourism, which is in the procedure proposed on behalf of the HSS Club, and I think I need to say a few more words about it. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union will further liberalise the market for agricultural and food products. Plasma of domestic products through tourism should be the priority of the Republic of Croatia. The results of a series of scientific research show that the potential of tourism is significantly higher than it is realized, and the number of entities participating in or contributing to the riching and expansion of the tourist offer is small compared to the needs and opportunities of the placement of different goods and services on the tourist market. Here it is necessary to stress that tourism is our chance in this one merger with all the benefits that this law makes very concrete, where we can encourage domestic producers to connect them in the most direct way. I won't have more time, more talk about changes to the water law, the Water Economy Financing Act, amendments to the legislation in the veterinary field as extremely important, I think we all agree on this because we all need to remember that in Slovenia 3.3 of the slaughterhouse is closed after entering the European Union. We need to know what is needed now, what are the measures we need to help our producers, our processors to prepare themselves anyway, so that such a failure doesn't happen to us. Here are the traditional tags and there will be no more time for everything else here, I will finally hand over this proposal to the Minister, we are open, we will participate actively, we will be there to try to make everything possible and make it easier for us to access the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30895	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30896	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I replied on the basis of Article 32. The Rules of Procedure on your obligation to give MPs specific reasons. So I'm asking that you wouldn't have to ask for a break, if we were to interpret well at the HSS Club that the proposal for a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2005, Appendix A to the National Programme is a document adopted by this House? And can this document, therefore, not on this national programme, but on this document be given an amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30897	On Appendix A?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30898	To Appendix A! I'd like an exact answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30899	You can make amendments to Appendix A. Dear Representative Damir Cain, Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30900	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Here, first I go from these Croatian-Italian-Slovenian relations. First of all, and here is also mentioned... property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to say on this occasion that this problem is closed between Croatia and ex Yugoslavia and remains to pay the 35 million dollars, solve 5 236 people who received a discharge from the so-called ". Yugoslav citizenship, of which 3,000 have assets and to assume that a request for return could be filed between 500 and 700 people. As far as I'm concerned... I want to stress this property that it's settled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I have reported more because of what might be possible in this package, it may also be possible to enter the request of Moldovan campers from II. World War I. When we look and list these Croatian-Slovenian relations there is everything like last year. It is good that Croatia insists on arbitration when the border is at sea, however, emphasis should be placed on the Ljubljanska banka whether or not in a way to resolve this issue through a succession although I am aware that our people are no matter how they get their money, it is important to get to that money, but if it goes through a succession then Croatia will be damaged. Yesterday I also mentioned the issue of statistical regions, so I will also, on this occasion, divide Croatia into five so-called so-called regions. statistical regions, these are not administrative regions, I think not well-visited communities, municipalities and these are bad associations in Istria. I also told the Prime Minister yesterday that Istria will defend its regional visibility and referendum. However, statistical regions should not be afraid because they are a mechanism for withdrawing money from the European Union. What IDS suggests is that Croatia be formed according to three statistical regions, the Adriatic, the Pannonian, Zagreb where they would be Karlovac, Varazdin, Međimurje and Bjelovar. Why? That this environment with Zagreb could also withdraw money because it retreats to those environments that have below 75% of the European Union's gross social product and otherwise Zagreb could fall out of it. What is not in this material, otherwise in the material on the 851 page are diaspora elections. We now propose whether or not to amend the Constitution or something else to close that site and not to have someone from other countries determine the political fate in this country. The return of refugees, it seems to be moving, says 77,000 citizens of Serbian nationality have returned, the reconstruction is going, the interest in return has been shown by another 20,000 people and the site needs to be clearly completed. It's about rebuilding, we need to rebuild what we've needlessly brought down. There is also an amendment to the law on HRT on page 19, something Mrs. Anticevic said about it. I know that the ruling party at this time has no influence on HRT, a greater influence perhaps of others than them, it should be recognised let it remain so and it is possible that these amendments to the Law are precisely in this direction that some subordination may change a little. How is it that when talking about road traffic for the applicants of this material on the 851 page, the European Union has failed to propose 0.5 prominences for older drivers and 0.2 for young drivers and professionals. One word, then let's do everything we can to change that 0.0. I almost forgot these roads to Slovenia. Slovenia does nothing to fix the road towards Croatia physically isolates Croatia. For example. Road from Koper towards Bujam, Kopra towards Buzet, Kozini towards Rijeka, Ilirska Bistrica towards Rijeka. I think you should take care of that. We see health care will reduce costs, and we see for ourselves that the situation in this situation is not applied when ministers are being treated in Austria, however, smaller funds as is required to mention less protection, less protection. There is another mention in the electoral legislation here, although I do not know what the definition of the right to vote should be observed for EU citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It's a done quote. And now we have about 500 thousand voters more than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and now where it will eventually lead. Exports in 2003 were 5.4 billion dollars, imports of 12.9 are to be imagined, whether or not we will re-industrize the Republic of Croatia so as not to be surprised that all countries which we have not rightly viewed from high, from Hungary via Slovakia, etc., will be well overrun. Finally, I also agree that Croatia is a country of stable democracy, we have lost foreign observers for these elections, precisely elsewhere they can vote dead, now on another occasion, however, I would like to say this is not the biggest problem now to achieve European Union standards, the far greater problem this country will be to achieve the standards of the monetary union. It is easy under quotes "to meet EU political standards" but the monetary Union standard will be much more difficult. It's a matter of economy, it's a matter of finance, it's a matter of income, etc., and I'm going to talk about it now and the most. However, Croatia has no alternative when at least the European Union is on Wednesday or now or when. That is why I say that the moment did not take place at the end of 2004 if the negotiations did not begin in 2005, the question is whether Croatia would be in the European Union by the end of this decade. In this I believe that today no one suspects because the political standards are slowly being reached, what will be far more difficult will be those economics. Another thing I want to say is when this material is Wednesday and it's extremely interesting, so it finally has 851 pages. Interestingly, it is interesting that by listing it, we are getting insight into what this Parliament will be doing this year on the one hand, but we are also getting insight into the economic activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, in order for Croatia to enter the European Union, and I believe that in 2009 it should change a little bit in my court and mentality, we always think that we are God-given, that we have everything, that we can, that everyone is less valuable. The European Union, on the other hand, has shown that it does not need to be feared, and by entering it all profited from both one economically arranged Slovenia and from agrarian Poland and poor Slovakia. I dare say that Europe is in some way a Roman Catholic church project because the external borders of the European Union are today the borders of countries where Roman Catholics are dominant. Right, because of history... There is reason for Greece, but these external borders are also consistent with that detail, but some other time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm interested in this document. When I spoke yesterday about resolutions, i.e. I told the principles of Croatia's entry into the European Union that Croatia must take care primarily of the social rights not to go under existing, then labour pension legislation, privatisation policy, Croatia's openness to foreign investments, although I am almost certain that in 7.8 years, because of the demographic picture, which is why I believe that we will be in a position to import labour. First of all, it's about privatization to the old 48. First, on the basis of privatisation, only 458 million kuna has been made into the budget, which is almost nothing to say that the fund's blockade has not even worked. But the material now clearly states that the state will sell 15% of INE shares in 2005, develop a privatisation plan for Croatia insurance, bring the end of the privatisation of the Croatian Telecom, the state will withdraw from the Croatian Bank, then seek the option of privatisation for the Croatian Post Bank and the creation of a master plan for the privatisation of the shipyard that should be privatised by 2005, this is Uljanik and third May, and will reduce the number of employees in Croatian forests and Jadrolinija. Page 48. This part of IDS has the biggest grudges. I pray, therefore, that in some ways this may be the first reading because it depends on how we set ourselves up at the club. If I am guaranteed that at least shipbuilding will not be privatized this year we will vote yes, otherwise we may be restrained regardless of what the consensus is mentioned. First, I think it is possible to unite the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Bank, after the state has rehabilitated them that it is possible to create a single national bank through which the state will primarily operate. It should be a debt to privatising dozens of rescheduled banks. It is not my court's problem to sell an unsanitary bank but the problem was that the non-sanitary banks in the Republic of Croatia had fallen apart, the exception was the former Istrian Bank in Pula and the rescheduled banks were being sold. There's a problem. Yesterday, even in the diary, there was an extremely weekly contribution to a new bank in Pula where no one said that the Istrian Bank of the Rehabilitation State had received a single kuna, that the rescue of the bank was under way when 30 banks collapsed, that by any chance the citizens would lose 700 million kuna and the state would lose more than 800 million kuna and thousands of jobs without talking. But what matters is that it's a good, liquid, solvent bank. Secondly, we have a huge reserve, more specifically against privatising the shipyard at this stage. I thank the management of the Oilies for everything he has done for that shipyard, for every worker who works there individually, but let's give up this adventure, the subsidies have been reduced 10% in this year, and the oil that is being prepared clearly, because he may have been ordered to privatise, perhaps, to remain in dominant possession, with the normal entry of some major banks but on May 3rd from Rijeka, I don't know how this privatisation will take place. Instead of trying to sell the 3rd of May and Uljanik, let's try, I don't know, to sell the bankrupt Viktor Lenac, although the best way to do it is to put it, and I'm mentioning that on his example, a private shipyard might be able to track all the incompetence of private capital when such a shipyard falls into trouble. Then, thirdly, public companies in the Croatian Forest and Jadrolini who should reduce what the number of workers say here. Right, we all know there's too many of them, but don't forget they're state-owned companies and they have a kind of social shock. It is not necessary now to threaten once under quotes “social bomb”. Fourthly, we are all interested in selling and one barn I do not know in Vrsar, Rab, Pag Alki here is talking about further sale of 15% of INE in 2005 and INA is 15% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, it is a gentlemen problem, it is a problem. If the company has problems, then let's sell it, then it should've already been done but if it's doing business as neatly as INA does, let's not sell it, if the bank's been resold to taxpayers' money, don't sell it, if the crash saves it by foreign intervention as it was done with Istrian. If the company fails, it is not renewed, it is not invested then let it be sold even if it is a tourist company because of two... is not allowed to live with a constantly blocked gyro-account and huge credit obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if it's renewed as one empire on Rab, then let's wait a little while with that privatisation. If we have good insurance companies like one Croatian insurance company let us not sell it let him try to buy I do not know Euroherc etc., and if this company has a problem then clearly that burden from the budget should be transferred to the company which the privateer is leading and who knows what with it. And finally, the question arises where will the money from privatising the companies mentioned above go to the budget, whether they will go to the pension fund. What ratios you'll have. Although I still hold today to the pensioners, not overnight, but in 7, 8 years, he could return that debt under quotes by means of bonds. What's going to happen here remains to be seen. This is the material, I said on the 851st page, and I will still touch nothing but the protection of the Adriatic on page 33, which speaks of a protected ecological belt and participation in a subregional set of Adriatic and Ionian states. There is talk of cooperation in the North Adriatic IDS, certainly there is no reason to be for the company Adria, however, to put emphasis on that protection, do not forget that 600 tankers sail to the Adriatic today, in Trieste 390, Venice 120, and what will happen tomorrow will go to Trieste through the western coast of Istria will cross about 550 tankers. And that's what you need to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30901	Thank you very much. I am reporting that at 10.45, it is time to apply for a ten-minute hearing on this point and that, that a session for the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of the national minorities called for today at 13.30 p.m., the president postponed until further notice. The club of representatives of HNS, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30902	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, a lot has already been said about this material that is truly large and impressive, but I think we should begin by commending an atmosphere of consent that was achieved yesterday afternoon, not in the morning, yesterday afternoon and which is being achieved today. Consents about the intention of where the road leads us and after that we want to go. The atmosphere of yesterday's session was unusually tolerated and in fact what a man in a serious parliament should expect. This project, I have to talk about this plan as a project because it is, it's ambitious, at least in the court of the HNS Club, the PGS. I believe that the Ministry of European Integration has a complete picture and that the project is capable of, of course, in cooperation with all of us and in cooperation with other segments of the Government and leading to the end. I would warn of some elements that may seem irrelevant at first sight, however, which, in the whole of this situation, may be extremely significant in certain segments. Documents that, the European documents that come to our benches, as well as the conventions of the world, say the next item of the agenda, are very often sloppyly staged. Nomenclature in them has been taken over from the Anglo-Saxon speech area almost literally. Some times this has nothing to do with it, however, some times this can lead to significant confusions that can also result in conflicts and misunderstandings in application. For example, the next item on the agenda, the Convention on Corruption, speaks of "public officials" and translations as state officials. They're not civil servants. They're more than that. There are officials and officials and court officials and everyone else. So everyone who works for the state. This translation of the document quickly translated can lead to, of course, unwanted results. Another element in this, in this quick application, the change of laws and the application of our laws of the existing ones, are different solutions that we have under our laws on the same topics. When we pass a week of 10, 15 European laws can happen very easily if professional services are not trained and if they do not do their job properly, to come to a conflict of expressions, let alone conflict, not to talk about conflict of meaning, European laws and what is still with us in force. Especially our system-type laws of the Law on Mandatory Relations and so forth. This happened once in one situation when we changed the Law on Interests and left the Law on Mandatory Relations as it was. They were directly, in direct conflict and those six months I don't really know what was applied in courts. Probably what the party had to do with it, this situation, in the "screening" process, shows us unserious. And the third point, which seems to me crucial to the process of adapting legislation, is the transparency of the budget but not only in terms of providing funds for this adjustment process. In fact, what does this adjustment process mean? So following one, one red line of standards that we've decided to accept and not just accept in the papers that we're going to adopt here, read or not read. The situation is similar to that of the ISO 9001 company. You can write practically in some sort of default framework whatever you like about how your company will function. But it's important that you literally respect what you write. That's what we're expected to do. So to establish one system, and it has to be a system, it can't be individual regulations, of course, and then we strictly and literally adhere to that system. When I talk about it, I'm thinking about 4, 5 aspects, so I'm just going to try to explain it in a few sentences right now. The system of freedom of movement of goods and capital can be a wonderful phrase that sounds great, liberal, democratic, in line with all the intensities of the democratic world if it doesn't have a figure in its pocket. If we don't need 15 years to apply it. And if we don't think about that 15-year-old who lives who dies, we'll see how things end. If that's what we mean, we've missed the essence of the whole thing from the very beginning. The situation with the position of science and education is similar. We all know very well how important, how important and what accent is given in all European integration processes, precisely in these areas. And let's look at our budget that we've brought for this year. The budget is nominally increasing by 4.9%. Education grows by a nominal rate of 4.4%. The predicted growth of social gross product is about 3.6%. The projected inflation is 1.2%. What does that mean? Education and science actually grow less than nominal. That's it. in real relationships they fall. No matter what we put in the nice declarations that number says what's really going on in the country. And the application of standards in such a way that we bring the declarations that we all agree on, that we bring the regulations that we all agree on, and then we don't apply them in the first, first possible, first possible practical step doesn't really mean "God knows what." Regional development. Europe as it is today is Europe's region. We have today these regions that we have. We have a crazy difference in the development of certain parts of Croatia, and instead of being a criterion of conduct and the criterion of change, so the proposal that the profit tax wishes to be transferred in favour of the environment in which the profits are realised and the proposals for the funds, the state funds to be decentralised in their actions, we accept in this Parliament the opposite views. So once again, we make a declaration about what is written in all European papers and in practice we implement a slightly different policy. What will happen to the pensioners and the health care sequence of these plans that we are about to adopt today is not quite clear. On the one hand, pensioners were promised everything they were promised through funds and pre-election performances by the ruling party. On the other hand, what's written in these, as my colleague Cain says, the 851 page is a little different. Health care, health care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I agree, is above the standards that we can afford today. However, what is foreseen is not raising these standards, but reducing the level of health care to fit certain financial opportunities. I think it's simply unacceptable from the perspective of the bright future that we want to go into. And finally the last point in this programme is informing Croatian citizens about what is actually happening. Croatian citizens more than follow up on such discussions, which can be very difficult to engage in because they do not have these 851 pages of material. They do not know much about what awaits them in concrete steps of accession to the European Union. It seems to me that it would be important to create an atmosphere where it would become clear to all citizens that it is not the key thing to get a membership card into the European Union. The key thing is to build a system of functional systems, a system that will apply to which we are in Europe today. Or we'll be when we build it like that regardless of the membership card. In fact, getting into that society without the complete construction of the system, getting into that society with the figs in the pocket with the hope that we're still going to fool someone around a little bit. It means Europe will still be in Amsterdam. And not in Zapresic, and Europe in Amsteradam is not really interesting to us. I find Europe interesting in Zapresic, Europe in Karlovac, Europe in Vojnić, Europe in Gospić. If she's not in Amsterdam, it doesn't mean God knows what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30903	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Club of Representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30904	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed MPs. The Croatian party has retired before and has now committed serious support for all efforts by the Croatian state to join the European family, and we want to do so now. Of course, we accept everything that has been said so far, and we would have something to do with all this heretic, but we are not allowed to limit ourselves to the question of the population of the pensioners. In fact, the materials that we have when it comes to the social security of pensioners are also referred to as the implemented pension reform that is here from the old world bank as satisfactory and successful. I agree that she is successful because we have implemented her as the World Bank Directives read. Therefore, we did not take into account what the Croatian citizen thought, especially those to whom it was at the time and to whom it applies today and tomorrow. In fact, in other countries in Europe, such an attempt has been made, but I don't think they're that long ago, and they're not that familiar with what's been going on in the paper in Austria, Switzerland, France, Germany, Italy. Not to mention not to add any data. However, in Croatia it was 9 as if nothing had happened. And why is that? Because it wasn't explained to people when the reform was carried out what it means, what it brings, and what it will welcome people when the time comes for them to retire. I think people knew it would be a little different with us. BUT what's here is also being talked about continuing the reform. It's the right thing to do with the reform, but not the way it's done so far. There's something else I need to do. And this is to continue the reform in such a way that its realisation in practice allows Croatian citizens who are already retired for the next 10 years in retirement in that future European Union to be equal citizens and to live on their pensions. That's what we all have to secure. And believe that as representatives of this population, we are going to be very, very committed to doing this together. What happened? The system of generation solidarity with this reform has been completely disrupted. You have a situation today that in different retirement times for the same year of the internship we have very large differences in pension incomes, and that same difference will increase even more among those who are going to retire. Well, that's what something suggests that some things aren't right after all. Which means no longer valorizing anyone's contribution to this state, and in its investment in pension funds, it's about the unsustainability of the pension system. Let's analyze it a little bit, but I'm not at the moment in a position to elaborate it in detail. Aliv because we will prepare such an elaborate and we will explain with arguments how and why such thinking even took place that the system is unsustainable. Please be nice. The system of generation solidarity of the pension system in Croatia has been functioning since 1922. He's been working effectively now all of a sudden not anymore. So we've made some mistakes somewhere, what's to be discovered and changed. And just for a little while, let me look at one particular thing that's written here, and that's indexing pensions towards growth pay disrupts the sustainability of the system. There is no urgent need to change the way in which pensions are coordinated by returning to the old Swiss formula for getting a new one. I don't think these things are standing, I'm not going to explain it too, because the explanations are going to be different and in other ways I don't think we're in a position to discuss it today, but it's certain that there are a number of other elements that have affected those, on conditional terms such unsustainability, which are not in the realm of the system of generation solidarity. Well, please, we're not in Switzerland or any other country and we're in Croatia. Therefore, we need to adapt to the situation and opportunities that are worth in Croatia. We must make every effort to remove all this that has been done for years by this population of pensioners, and it is certain that we must all make a contribution. And in no way can we accept this item that talks about it and if it doesn't change formally and legally, we simply can't accept this. Accordingly, he would be free to propose one conclusion, and he would read as follows: "The basis of the debate on the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2005, Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union in 2005 Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensioners pursuant to Article 116, Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submits the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act (regular Annex 1 to the proposal) will respect the constitutional provision of the Republic of Croatia, the state of social justice, and will make efforts to maintain the level of social rights and improve the principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union." Is it necessary to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30905	Did you multiply that? Is that distributed? If you like, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30906	Okay, thank you. There's time, I can read the explanation. Here, there's still time to explain. This conclusion is considered necessary since we cannot intervene in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2005, and this is the following: In paragraph 3.13.7. Social security, pensioners, persons with disabilities, paragraph 3. the wrong claims are made and solutions are prejudged. In fact, amendments to the Pension Insurance Act in 2004 add-on of 100 kuna and 6% included in the pension base and it is irrevocably further mentioned. Paragraph 3 prejudges the decision on a pension system that does not have a foothold in the Law and is imperatively speaking about the need and modification of the pension harmonisation formula. The Croatian party of pensioners represents the view that the issue of harmonising pensions is a first-class social issue, given Croatia's constitutional determination as a state of social justice, so any changes must be the result of the agreement of social partners and representatives of the rights users after the public debate has been conducted. Maintaining the level of existing social rights and increasing the same conditions for Croatia's social stability, an essential prerequisite for security and social peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30907	Thank you very much. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30908	I am correcting the alleged respected colleague that the pension reform in Croatia has gone well and successfully because people have been uninformed about what it refers to. Most responsibly, I can argue that no government project of this or former government has been presented as well publicly as was a pension reform. It's literally about a hundred radio shows on local radio stations, tens of thousands of posters, radio shows, television shows, videos, and it's about the fact that millions of people have joined the pension fund. To a respected colleague, I would like to say this, it is not fair that current pensioners, using a Parliament speaker publicly, deny the possibility of future pensioners having decent pensions. And unargumentedly, they question one project that is not the result of any World Bank dictatorship, but is our own indigenous concept, because if it was the World Bank, we would still not have a new pension system by 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30909	Minister of European Integration Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30910	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank the representatives of the clubs for their opinions. I am extremely glad that this job is taken seriously and I thank you for all the constructive remarks that will certainly help us in our work. First of all, she would refer to the observation of the bad translations brought out by several MPs. Indeed, here we will make an additional effort to improve the quality of these translations. I think there's a notion that some kind of lecturing service is being set up to review these texts so that you don't face such problems here in the House. Otherwise, when it comes to translations, about 22,000 pages of the 80,000 pages of legal property to be adopted so far have been translated. It is a huge job, and we are limited to normal and human and financial opportunities, budgeting at the disposal of the European Integration Ministry, however, we seek to maintain the rhythm exactly the basis of the National Programme for Joining the European Union as an annual plan so that the laws and directives that will be harmonised systematically are translated during that year. When it comes to new laws, because you are absolutely right, Aquis grows every day, the fact is that in the State Administration there are people who speak foreign languages mostly in English, in which most of these documents are translated, so that we can follow everything new that happens in this way, and that translations are not necessary. Secondly, when it comes to whether we go "gooses in the fog" as you put it. I would say that no, that exactly the National Programme as a strategic document annually proves that there is a plan in which the European integration process will be approached. As I pointed out in my opening statement, this year we are providing projections for both 2006 and 2007 for the first time and should say that any measure, whether legal or sublegal, whether implementing measures and SAAs or some institutional measure of relying on what was done in the previous year. And the same thing that is extremely important, with which it is moving this year, when it comes to laws, is an analysis of the effects of legislation, i.e. a previous analysis of the effects of legislation. Which means that the group of experts proposing this law must make an analysis of what its institutional and other effects will be. In particular, the effects on Croatian legislation so that the law can be prepared as best possible. Secondly, as far as I'm concerned, I also thank the SDP's Club of Representatives. I accept the observation that we did not report on the 2004 Plan. It's a failure that we're going to correct I think it's simply for the dynamics of the job she was. The audit did not really go to the Assembly this year because it was not even done with the national programme for 2003. And when it comes to the observation that we are unambitious, I would really disagree because I think that we are making increasing progress from year to year when it comes to the national programme and the European integration process. For example, the national programme in 2003, so only 13 of the 29 relevant chapters of the acquis were covered 2 years ago and this year we cover not only all the chapters of the acquis but also the short- and medium-term measures from the European Partnership, institutional measures and everything else. So I really think that from year to year this job is being upgraded and that the government itself is really getting better teaming up and better, increasingly harmonising its horizontal and vertical coordination. Secondly, I note again that we have provided a projection of measures both legislative and sublegal and other measures for both 2006 and 2007. At this point, it is impossible to make a final list of laws that will be passed by 2007 for two reasons. First because only after the screening is completed, i.e. the depth analysis of the legislation of the comparison of Croatian and European legislation with certainty will we be able to state what remains, what remains for alignment, and second because of the fact that this acquis is growing every day and that the process will require continuous upgrades of plans. I also point out that I have already said in the opening statement that we have announced a revision of the national programme for 2005 in line with the screening results in certain chapters so that I am convinced that we will add new legal and sublegal acts. Another fact that we are not unambitious is the summation of sublegal acts which proves that we are already here for the second year deep in the implementation or implementation of everything that is done. Because I think we are all aware here that the point of the process of European integration is not only the adoption of a number of laws in the Croatian Parliament but also their effective and thorough observation and implementation through sublegal acts but also a number of other measures including the construction of various agencies, institutions, teaming of state administrations and so forth. When it comes to agriculture, I am sorry that my colleague Pankretic is not here, but it is true that I stood up for a larger budget in agriculture, I am glad to see him, going with greater incentives when it comes to capital investments. I'm glad we're gonna get out of... get 25 million euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At first, it may seem a little bit, however, the fact is that we must prepare institutionally and that as Budmeo exploits these funds, we will get more funding from European funds. When it comes to institutional preparations, I assure you that we are going according to plan, that the European Commission itself is extremely pleased with what we are doing and that they often point out that we are much better than many other transition states. Institutional preparations specifically for Sapard are very extensive and will be completed by the beginning of 2006 when funds from the programme will be used. The government has also accepted the exact schedule, the order of all actions, all the titles of state administration bodies, and we regularly report to the government everything that is going on and in this horizontal coordination we will encourage colleagues from other ministries to stick to what we have drawn. Just one note that monetary union standards are not a condition for membership, it is certainly good to achieve them as soon as possible, however, the criteria for membership are Copenhagen, political, economic and legal criteria that are descriptive, not in figures and Madrid criteria for institution building and certainly specific criteria from the SAA. When it comes to informing Croatian citizens you are absolutely right, they must be fully informed, this national programme for 2005 is already on the website of the Ministry of European Integration available to citizens, they can also ask us on the CD or printed as a book that will be almost within a day. And normally when it comes to pensioners, raising the standards of pensioners must be one of the main goals of the whole process, in general raising the standards of Croatian citizens. And throughout this process, all the changes that will be made will be brought in consultations with the responsible, with stakeholders and in this regard to our pensioners. That's it, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30911	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30912	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We got off to a good start yesterday. Full consent that on this journey to the European Union we do not... To rise above individual, party interests in order to strengthen the negotiating position of our negotiating team. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, however, only a day later, in this, by European rules built a joint nest that we so idyllically began to sow, we find the first cowardly eggs. I'm going to talk about an egg like that today with a call to get everyone out of that nest together today to remove it, but any doubt that some of us have gone into this business with a sincere, open heart with awareness of the need to preserve national interests and others with some of our own hidden party intentions. Let's go to the metrics. On page 205, in Chapter 3.20, culture and autonomous policy, sub-paragraph 3.21 of the second paragraph is said: “The new Law on Croatian Television will be adopted in the third quarter of 2005 and will edit the way the Programme Council of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme in a way that plays a major role in the selection of the Council of civil society associations.” All of this according to the Directive on television without borders 89.5520, which has been amended and supplemented by Directive 97.36 and Recommendation 2000.23 on the independence and functions of regulatory bodies in the broadcasting sector. The HRT law, however, is fully consistent with the Aki communiqué, which I do not say I own evidence of. It's a declaration of conformity. And that statement says that the law, which exists, is fully in line with the provisions of the primary sources of EU law, the provisions of secondary sources of European Union law, with the guidelines of the Council of the European Union, 89,552 of 3 October, is exactly the one you are calling for in the national programme so that it should be harmonised with the law which is therefore already in line with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and the EU 97/36, this is the second one you are also calling upon and it says that all of this is fully harmonised. And all of this has the signature and seal of Mrs Tamara Obradovic, today the secretary of the negotiating team. I have both of these directives with me in the English version and I am now going to ask my colleague Lek to bring you these directives because I doubt you have them here in the Parliament, these directives have a lot. So I ask you in these directives to find one sentence, half a sentence that would suggest that a council should be elected in which the main role in selecting that council will be played by civil society associations. Please show me where it says it. It doesn't say anything because it can't even write anywhere. Because that's not the idea of the European Union. It's the idea of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. And now that idea is trying to hide behind the paravan of alignment with the European Union. The third document you are calling for is the recommendation number R-2023 of the Committee of Ministers of the Member States on the independence and functions of regulatory authorities in the field of radio dysfunction. I have that document, too, but he's just the opposite. In its paragraph 6, this says: "It is finally necessary to lay down precise rules regarding the possibility of resolving members of regulatory authorities to avoid being used as a means of political pressure." So this recommendation protects the members of the regulatory body, protecting the Council from any threats in order to achieve something for political purposes by changing them. This is what just happens by announcing amendments to the law, referring to some of the recommendations that all of this has already been harmonised with. Look, there are two important documents for public television. One of them was adopted in Strasbourg on 5 May 1989 by the European Convention on Transboundary Television. She's right here. It's a map of public television in Europe. The second document is the 1994 Prague Charter, adopted at the extraordinary Council of Europe Assembly in Prague. The existing Law on Croatian Radio Television is fully in line with the Convention and the Charter. It is therefore in line with European conventions, with charters, with guidelines, with recommendations and should not be further coordinated. Not that it should not be coordinated, but it is impossible to coordinate it because what is harmonised cannot be coordinated. As one cannot fill in what is filled or adopt what has already been adopted. What can be hidden behind this? An excuse can be created for the acquittal of the need to comply with the European Union in order to amend the law and to change it in the section in which it speaks of the election of the Council. So if the law had changed then the council would have changed. If the Council is changed, then the Director-General who is elected by the Council shall also be amended. So if the change is made, then the directors of the programme he proposes to the council are also changing. In one word to achieve political domination over HRT. And what's the announcement? The Council chosen from associations that are godlessly outside the influence of politics. I personally don't believe that. That civil society associations are completely apolitical. So here I am asking myself, you, is everything, for example. Mercep's Non-political Association? Or Condic's Non-political Association? I won't count on it any further. But such a council that would be chosen directly from the associations is not on any public television in Europe. Tell me one thing, one thing. No, it doesn't exist. She was with us, though. That's the experiment we had. And what happened? These, of the Associations, elected politically independent members of the Council, have established a party in the Council. They used the Council as a stand for their political action. When they stopped being members of the Council, their political action also ceased. That experiment we had and it turned out to be completely inefficient. It's just... it's... it's... it's... I call upon the government, so stay away from this intention. The possible subjugation of HRT because it won't go through the cracks. It won't be well received anywhere. This will not be well received in Brussels either. It certainly won't go so smoothly. Prove that you have no evil intentions, that this is all one mistake, that it is one lapus that has been found here in the national programme and accept therefore the amendment and conclusion offered by the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30913	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30914	Mr. President, fellow Stazic, what he was saying could be said to be incorrect, but I'm going to quote just something that's very signifying. It says that the HRT Act is fully in line with European Union legislation with the conventions and standards of the European Union. That's absolutely not true. No country in Europe has such a nakarad, moral, professional and political prostitution law as we do today in Croatia, the Law on HRT. And the programme council and the selection of the HRT programme council is moral and political prostitution. This Council does not represent anyone but 2/3 of the members of the HRT Council are in full conflict of interest. One is publishers, the other are directors, third is actors and so on. Who do these people there represent besides the former government that brought them to that place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30915	Minister of European Integration Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30916	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment of the Law on Croatian Radio Television was planned, the national programme for 2004 and then there were no objections to the addition of the national programme in particular not to comment in this sense that the aim is to subdue the HRT. Certainly the intention is far from it. The fact is that the Law was transferred from last year precisely because the continuity of communication with both the Council of Europe and the OSCE and the Commission to make changes that would respect truly the most standards, the democratic standards of the European. However, when it comes to this law, it should be said that Chapter 20, culture and audio-visual policy will be among the first chapters to be opened with the European Commission for "screening" and that then the comparison of the Directives and the Law on Croatian Television and other media laws will normally see whether the law is in full compliance with the directives, or whether further harmonisation is necessary, and the final decision will then be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30917	Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30918	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you can see how it is happening and what can happen and continue to be in the tone of happiness, I hope, interrupted Mrs. Minister where she might come from, and in fact things are based nevertheless on certain negligences that we have to control so that we don't plan unplanned again to end up in an unplanned situation. Of the three laws that I am continuing in this area at Mr. Stazic's discussion, it is by chance a coincidence that we speak behind each other and all of his so to say the basic settings in the documentation I fully support. I will only try in some way to go to a common position and to call for a common position including the common position of colleagues in the position. Of the three laws most important and most complicated, the Media Act is listed two as problematic, not the Media Act itself. And if this were to change, and especially in the way it's said, then it wouldn't even be worth the Media Act. Unfortunately, we are now recycling one disputed political, which was created in one atmosphere and with one intention and now we are in another situation and in other intentions. A difficult debate on HRTU after the situation in which HRT was found thanks to just one specific and private commitment on the way of elections and the composition of the HRTA Council and which was brought into such a crisis recorded by this Assembly jointly, so to say unanimously, perhaps with one or two votes against. We should resuscitate after we have obtained consent from all relevant factors. And after only some personal opinions have remained in reserve that perhaps something might have to or might be solved and a different way. There is no official document and no one to say so in a relevant attitude that would justify the intention that the new law on Croatian radio television will be adopted in the third quarter and the way the Croatian Television Programme Council will be elected and done in a way that plays a major role in the selection of councils of civil society. The key thing that everyone has accepted is that we've accepted it here at the Parliament and rated it is that someone can't decide on something and at the same time have no responsibility for the consequences that it decides on. We had an automated choice from the so-called so-called. Civil society is everything that has been found difficult to undermine under the notion of civil society because it was a very political society. Which, under our good intentions, was to exclude the policy from the HRT Council, has just come to be the formation of a party within the Council from such a single policy. And it took a lot of effort to get this Parliament that represents the Republic of Croatia if the founder returns to the elemental function of certain supervisions not as a political body over the political body to say so in television rather than to protect the actual autonomy of the journalistic profession on television. We did it. Let us not once again open an unnecessary discussion on this matter, a discussion that will divide us. And in a discussion after which it will really be possible to assess that a partial political interest is actually suggested under the company's external demand for some changes. I hope that won't be allowed. And I'm glad to hear from Madam Secretary that, first of all, the consent and study goes to the existing law. Since both Ms. Minister and Madam Secretary Mrs. Obradovic well knows this matter because Mrs. Obradovic has worked especially. I ask that only one example be asked to specify the one example on which the HRTA Council should be changed according to the principle that stands here in this text. One single example in any European country, and I especially ask it to be a European Union country. So if that exists then I'd like to ask you to literally copy into our model that supposedly exists somewhere else. And there are other private opinions, private arrangements, private arrangements of some specialists who can't go through with such ideas in their own country, but Croatia should have been a polygon for experimenting on a basis of several, so to speak in topian terms about what is possible and what is not possible. I would warn of one more thing and I am surprised because the issue and the regulatory body when it comes to the law on electronic media has been split right within this government in such a way that this government has proposed the composition of that body that it is also in this same context of the choice of the regulatory body in future tasks, so on. the coordination of already harmonised. I recommend you because it is therefore even the council that this government has proposed to take the same position to the council. The council has even become a member of international associations in the meantime. It's very active if I'm not wrong right now in Istanbul and I've got some work grabs and what we're thinking now is we're reopening the issue of that council. I mean, why? Why is there no reason unless we return things to those political bickerings where I hope so, and as we solemnly promised, so to speak, the solemn part of these sessions that began yesterday, which we won't do. So please personally express their confidence in the team that will do this, but I must warn you that every opinion of any expert at the same time is not a requirement that should oblige us to act in a way that no one in the world behaves. Those arguments are very strong. And we need to warn about those, because those opinions are also heard, which mention some of the OSS remarks. The OSs this latest observation regarding HRT was precisely that it should be allowed to verify how the HRT Council works and in some ways it has functioned. And the way in which the HRT Council is elected is right about this law is praised by many experts as optimal precisely in the context of retaining the necessary function of the state, i.e. the founders of the Parliament and the independence of that body that behaves independently. So it's put together in a way that there's no majorization in it by the opposition's political clubs or political clubs. There are a few other things in this chapter when it comes to audio-visual politics. There is no mention of the need for the adoption and harmonisation of that media legislation related to the digitalisation processes. And processes that actually create a new media reality. Where, therefore, there is a convergence of electronic media, where interactions occur and so on. Which opens up a new field of legislation, we in this area actually have a deficit tone we don't have. And what we have, let's not do twice, I think that would be very harmful. So by expressing hope that we will return to what we have just negotiated as common views, I pray that this Parliament accepts any amendments to the SDP either, or I hear that the expressed dilemma is whether it needs an amendment or a conclusion, however one or the other quite anyway. I think the conclusion can also be accepted so that this is not the subject of debate and polarisation that we no longer need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30919	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, honourable representative Ivo Lončar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30920	Well, my colleague Vujic here said a few inaccuracies before these inaccuracies, the only thing I agree with when he said he shouldn't be discussing HRTU right now. And this is an objection to the current authority, the HRTU law was to be amended 2 months after this authority took office to manage the state. He said it couldn't happen that someone could decide without having any responsibility. That's right. The former government decided on something she had no responsibility for, and in a year, she passed two full-fledged laws. He then said that there was a single example in the countries of the European Union that have objections to such a programme council. So who'll have any objections when no one in Europe has this kind of nakarada? Who in this way chooses a program council with these powers. Is there, for example, in Denmark, Germany? So do you know how to choose this in the UK BBC, Italy RAI, I don't know where other national public televisions are. Well, this is a shame. Well, we have a programming council here that decides there's scary intelligence, and it's absolutely not responsible for anything, they're incompetent and they're in one policy. The evidence is that we passed the law in February 2003, and that an hour before Parliament's disbandation, the last session agreed on who would be members of the HRT Council. Well, that's inadmissible. Well, here we have a man in the Council of HRT, Mr. Duška Luština, who came instead of Professor Taker. Who does he represent, whom did he choose? And at the same time, he's a man and a director in a theater. Well, that's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30921	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30922	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have called for a debate on this agenda point for many reasons, but it is too little time for all those topics I hold to be touched in this debate that it is important to discuss this moment when we are agreeing on what laws and to what extent we will change and on the accession of the Croatian European Union. Because in addition to these amendments to the laws that we are agreeing on today, we will probably have some other amendments to the laws that have nothing to do with compliance with Aquis communitaire but have simply to do with the regulation of the legislative space in the Republic of Croatia. I would not want the Croatian public to get the impression that only what has something to do with the legislative or political meaning with the harmonisation of Croatia, Croatian standards and Croatian legislation with the European Union will be happening in this House from now on. We will continue to work, Croatia will continue to be sovereign, national state, and if we continue to debate in this way and to push in this area any other laws or under cover of compliance with the European Union to continue working here, indeed a complete Croatian policy will be accused of being a servant and of doing something that is not our sovereign right. On the contrary, it is the Croatian sovereign right to adopt its laws, to amend its laws and to bring them into line with European legislation. And I have an observation that before me was elaborated by Mr. Bujic and Mr. Stazic, so I will not repeat everything they have said, which I fully agree with. I'm just going to add something else to the smart and peaceable remark the minister made here. Add one warning because in some ways if we accept such a methodology, we can all fall into a trap together. In fact, the European Commission's directives are clear, and if we start to interpret them politically as appropriate to a particular political option, to open up discussions and ultimately through a review of the legislation or "screening" to seek the arbitration of the European Commission, then we will really get into a situation that turns out that someone else dictates to us what we are able to do ourselves. In this case, when we talk about the HTV Act, then we've already done it ourselves. Before any negotiations, before any coordination in our previous preparations for joining the European Union. The second area I want to say a few words about is the area of social security for pensioners and persons with disabilities, so in this National Programme under this chapter it is presented. The amendment of the Pension Insurance Act is foreseen here. I'm not going to talk about the content of these changes, although on behalf of the Retirement Party Club, something has been said here. But I'll warn you, we've been running tough political polemics here all last year. From the ranks of the SDP, we warned that the changes that were first politically promoted to make political points in the public, first I say politically propaganda, and then implemented through the law. In order to almost immediately after that to establish that these changes, legislative changes make a complete social system, the pension system is financially unsustainable. We warned about it, it was more than clear, all the accounts pointed to it, but no one wanted to pay attention to it. The same area discusses amendments to the Law on Mandatory Contributions. That law passed the first reading. In this first reading again, we warned from our ranks that the amendments to the Law would put into question the collection of contributions, the united payment, that what had already been resolved in Croatia would be complicated in a better way. Here's a chance to warn that in the second reading, we'll come back to the same, let's call it political, but it's not political for me, it's an operational conflict for me. Because if we really want to make the State Administration more efficient, if we want to adapt in this way by asking for that effectiveness of our legislation with European legislation, then we will not enter, we will not go into such changes to the laws that are foreseen here. The third area I want to say something about, I don't know if that's the most important thing, these three areas, but here, that's how much I can do in this short time. It refers to the area of regional policy, and I will tie it to Appendix B, which is a table of planned foreign aid. First, the principle warning to you who are obliged, in a way, to coordinate this is the level of preparedness of projects that should be financed from these pre-accession funds. Unfortunately, it's not satisfactory and I think it should be warned, I think we should speak out loud about it because we won't be able to use those funds or make the best use of those funds that access funds give us. In this respect, I will mention projects that should be financed with 15m euros, not a very small amount, and are related to sustainable development in return areas. Namely, here they mention exactly the counties that are, you don't know which projects they are because they're probably not there yet, but I'm going to show on one example how it is, in fact, how it can be a nice expectation, but the practice of these beautiful expectations deny. In the municipality of Vojnic, we have an example where, for example, a private initiative is built on an object that has a social purpose. Which should accommodate about 80 users of severely mentally retarded people with psychosis, one 800 to a thousand people are waiting on waiting lists in Croatia for adequate accommodation and rehabilitation of such persons. We have the possibility that in this area, which is absolutely an area of return, to open 50 new jobs, and for a year because of red tape, this facility cannot be put into operation. We can't go over these situations that easily. This is just one example, and there must be a lot of them. Our ministry rather than accept this initiative, the money that came from private sources, unfortunately does not accept such initiatives, and I am afraid that we will also have problems in these projects that will be able to be financed from pre-accession funds. In fact, if the ministries continue despite trying to make them more efficient, this will be a major problem. And lastly, I would like to warn you that the political idyll we were able to experience here yesterday in the House not only is it coming to trial today but every day, on every topic in this House, there will be no consensus on the accession of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30923	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30924	counterpart Antunovic said I quote, "HTV law we made ourselves", that is not true. She prepared the first law and was adopted by her colleague, Mr Vujic, who is now missing and this second one, and then they boasted about who from Europe helped them all and lived in Jakubovic, who came here from Poland to share something that he knew about the media. And I with full responsibility based on what he said in the Croatian public, what I listened to in the European House and in the media as he was in Croatia he knows about the Radio-Television system about how much I know about surgery, and I have no idea about surgery. I know why SDP is torturing this. They passed two laws in a year. According to the first law prepared by Mrs Antunovic, political parties were made there, and then they changed it, and they passed a second law that was even more generous with these powers of the programme council. Europe will not be angry because no one in Europe has such a law and especially this choice of programming councils and these powers of the programme council, but I know why this bothers the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30925	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30926	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The start of an assessment of the compliance of Croatian legislation dates back to 1999 with the adoption of an integration plan. This is the first browser that sought to demonstrate the state of compliance in certain areas and identify the areas where legislative activities should be taken. Since then, a number of sublegal acts have been adopted, amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government's conclusions, the Government's decisions, the National Strategy Programmes and the like aimed at bringing Croatia closer and harmonising legislation to the acquis of the European Union. In the legislative activities and procedures that followed such decisions, the dominant mark is the quantitative hyperinflation of the adoption of new amendments and the addition of existing regulations by the method of mechanical and superficial comparison of our regulation with a specific act of the European Union, usually with one lens. In doing so, it was easy to explain that this legislation is harmonised, that changes will not require additional costs, that we introduce European standards and so on. The question and correctness of such access shall be reflected in the following. In the past 10 years, the Croatian Parliament has adopted countless regulations that have often changed and many of them have gone to harm the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. In the light of the proposal for these laws, it was said that their adoption would make improvements, make progress, properly regulate a particular area and so on. The effect was completely opposite. Logically, the question of mechanical adaptation to EU legislation and the final effect of such regulations is raised when we know that the Republic of Croatia has not properly translated many social relations into legal relations, i.e. legal norm within its own courtyard. The Croatian legal system and the law system of the European Union are different systems and rights visible and fundamentally divided into so-called the borders of law, and hence the difficulty of comparing legal nominations, a particular issue on the European Union versus the Republic of Croatia. Following this divergence, compliance cannot result from the demand for differentiality of the provisions of only one of our regulations with one EU act and... a legislative procedure in our regulation governing one area can result in a whole series of significant changes and unwanted consequences in other areas. On the other hand, almost every directive, decision or other EU act is directly or indirectly linked to 10 other acts. This adds to the existing complexity. Therefore, for the assessment of compliance, it should be based on a more comprehensive approach to the subject of legal normation, not on a partial selection as proposed by this coordination plan. The plan contains a number of elemental shortcomings and contradictions, of which I point out more significant for the position of Croatian citizens, a financial ascept. In the chapter of the economic criteria, the EU accession process states that the EU accession process sets a huge cost in administrative and financial terms. The administrative process would require public administration reform and the cost of joining experiences would be 2 to 3% of the budget, i.e. between two and three billion kunas. That it is a completely co-determined definition and the proposer himself confirms at the end of that chapter. He says, "With all the above-mentioned knowledge... an assessment of all costs requiring additional analysis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the proposal does not know how much the cost of the accession process will be so that it can conclude or make any claim on the positive balance of Croatian entry into the EU and improve the standards of individual categories of citizens. As regards social and family legislation in Chapter 1 of the political criteria, the activities planned for 2005 under the reform of the judiciary are listed on page 4. It is apparent that no mention is made of any measures taken for the judicial takeover of family matters from the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centre. This obligation stemmed from European standards and was incorporated into the Family Law for better protection of families and children. On the other hand, on page 10, it is announced that this amendment to the Family Law provides for the protection of children's personal rights in court proceedings, and it is not stated that several more amendments to the Family Law that are being postponed have followed, so forgive the application. Under point 3.2., point 5. states that Croatian social legislation includes pension insurance, health insurance for unemployment and the right to family benefits, in Croatia a child's allowance. Therefore, all social security branches covered by Regulation 1048/71 which constitutes the basic regulation of European social legislation. The text shows an elementary lack of knowledge not only of the European social system but also of Croatian social legislation. There is, unfortunately, no children's allowance in Croatia, but a child's allowance. The distinction stems from the fact that the children's allowance institute is the universal right of the child, while the child's allowance is not already the right of parents based on children. This is a clear distinction both in the legal theory and in the positive correct state systems. Furthermore, Regulation 1048/71 does not constitute a fundamental process of European and social legislation, it is one of the most significant acts in the field of social legislation of the European Union, and the basic act of European and social legislation is the European Social Charter, which is also the legal property of the EU as an act of the Council of Europe, resulting in a series of obligations of the Republic of Croatia to ensure better social conditions for its citizens. It is not worth talking about the meaninglessness of measures in the area of social legislation. I would like to point out that the Croatian Party will take a number of activities in the coming period and make more proposals to ensure and apply positive flows of the European Union, especially those relating to the obligation of the State to establish European and social standards and rights to its citizens, not only impose obligations. The significant problem that arises is the complexity of the European Union system as well as the fact that it approaches harmonisation, only partially implemented relevant European acts. The existence of translation of the acquis and of all other documents of the European Union to the basic adaptation of the European Union to the system, as well as the obligation of state authorities to achieve the democratic principle of public availability of the rules for citizens in the Croatian language. Finally, the plan shows that the Republic of Croatia is starting from the value of the European Union observed through the prism of our standards. Although the introductory part of page 2 states that EU integration should create a broad national consensus, starting with its own values of interest observed through the prism of European standards. So we suggest that the plan follows the basic principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30927	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just before a consensus of all parliamentary parties was reached, not to discuss today the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, but to start a session of the Parliament on 2 February with that point. Let us today discuss these points from 9th to 14th which we can discuss in a very short process and vote on how many we do and how much we choose the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. Now at 12 o'clock, the Board of Elections has a session, and I call on everyone to be at that session to finish it as soon as possible, because our joint proposal on the composition of the Committee has been agreed, so they would vote around, appoint, choose the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and these four, five international agreements and conventions of Croatian and other countries. In one hour's vote, so we were about half past two then and done. Tomorrow shouldn't have a session then, but was an extension on February 2nd. We have another representative on this subject, Honorary Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30928	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Reading this document, and a particularly thoughtful chapter in social policy and employment, I had a somewhat ambitious feeling. On the one hand, a sense of pleasure, I'll tell you what. And from the other and dissatisfaction. A sense of satisfaction from that which is, in fact, the most explicit recognition that the former government could receive for what has been done in the field of social policy and employment and the harmonisation of our legislation with European Union legislation, where it is said and explicit in several places that it claims and says. It is precisely the sequence of such an evaluation that has been given here quite concretely that the necessary legislative and sublaws that are generally in line with the regulations and standards of the European Union have been adopted, so neither the European Partnership has been recommended short-term coordination priorities but medium-term measures aimed at further deregulation of labour market flexibility and employment. I am very pleased with what we have done cannot be satisfied with the fact that, in the short term, in fact, in this year, nothing concrete is planned in this area. We have indeed done a lot, quality work has been done in recent years. But the job is not even far from done. On the contrary, I think that a good basis was created for our legislation to be further coordinated in this area and that it should not have been lost in 2004 as unfortunately happened. And according to this unambitious plan, I'm afraid we're going to lose 2005 for a whole series of jobs that would be necessary and important for us to do here. It is said that when it comes to European partnership and harmonisation of legislation, legislation in the area of pension insurance, in particular the pension reform that has been discussed here today is adapted to the related legislation of that insurance in Europe, mainly in Germany and Austria, and the amendments made at that time are in line with the 797EC Directive. Here, only in principle, it points to a problem that remains very prominent in Croatia, and it is about the area of flexibility of the labour market, the creation of new jobs and increasing the specificity of the economy, where this remains as a declaratively recorded position which does not follow a single concrete one, I would say legal or sublegal proposal or act. It also states that significant shifts have been made in social dialogue over the past years and that the increase in significant representation of social partners in a number of national tripartite bodies, that representatives are allowed to participate in the Advisory Council of the Development and Employment Fund, in the Management Council of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund, employment of persons with disabilities. That 21 economic and social councils were established and that the collective bargaining process in Croatia has grown significantly. But ask any union leader, ask members of employers' associations, and you will easily conclude that a huge job is still ahead of us and that, in this sense, there are also no or no concrete projects of legislative activities to strengthen not now more tripartite, but bipartite dialogue between employers and workers, or unions. Something here is very interesting, and I think it would be a good idea for the government to manifest itself more explicitly, not just through this document. In the chapter on equal opportunities for women and men, it is said that the principles of gender equality are the law on amendments and amendments to the Labour Act, the Law on Gender Equality, that legislative institutional frameworks for equal treatment of women and men that are almost fully in line with European Union regulations are created. However, we now encounter a paragraph that really requires a closer explanation for the citizens of this country or citizens. It is said that what was done last year, after all of our warnings, is therefore that amendments to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act, which extend the scope of the birth benefits user, can be negatively reflected in the position of women on the labour market as well as in the declared equality of access to all forms and aspects of professional progress, which is why it is said next, the medium-term period will be necessary to monitor and develop an analysis of the effects of the application of those institutes. It is said here, therefore, that what we have warned about in these lightly made promises, political promises that were not based on either the profession or the analysis, that this will now change and that it will be done but beware of respected colleagues and colleagues not now but in some future period. I wouldn't want any government to welcome a job after this to have to do it again, to have to do what was not to be done again and misrepresented in these laws that we warned of. It's created an eye-feeling of increased care for the maternity care, and in fact, here the explicit shows that this eye or the apparent concern actually damages in the long term, the implication here is that it tells women's interests and worsens their position on the labour market. The only more concrete part in this area is the measures or action plan for the European Union's employment, but neither is it, nor is it a project that could satisfy its specificity, operationalisation of what needs to be done in this area. Also here, for the first time explicits are confirmed again by what some colleagues have warned that the change in the pension system that has been made is based on a voluntary approach without thorough analyses and that consistency has been violated, I would say not only the sustainability of the pension system but the consistency of the pension system and that the urgent change of law must be changed to get back to the old one. It's nice to meet you, and I'm happy to make mistakes. It is better to admit them than to endure them, but I am not glad that these mistakes had to take place despite our clear warnings about where they were going. And finally, I must also say that in the business of strengthening the professional position in the labour market of disabled people, nothing has been done in the past year, and as we can see, there are no concrete projects and legislative alignment with what Europe is plentiful and rich in, so to say, in the field of protection of exactly marginal groups, disabled persons, national minorities and there is no next step that should have followed all of those national strategies that we have made in the past five years of priority activity for the benefit of children, from the national action programme for young people, national strategies to combat drug abuse, the national plan to combat trafficking in human beings, family policy, policies for persons with disabilities. These projects have not been operationalised and have not been led to a level that would allow us to compare them in a legislative manner and to comply with European legislation. This is the cause of dissatisfaction, this low ambition expressed in this chapter of this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30929	Thank you very much. Many of us look at HTV sometimes at the school show. Here they are with, at the gallery are our first president of the founding school and the team of the school. So let's say hello. Come on, let's have a look at you. [[Applause.]] Thank you. And please final review, State Secretary of the European Integration Ministry Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In very short, I would refer only to a few words that have been said here, and so as not to remain perhaps misunderstood in this high House and in the Croatian public. Namely, when it comes to this, about "sreening" so-called "sreening". The analysis of the harmonisation of legislation in the context of the adoption or amendment of the HRT Act is that we will seek the arbitration of the European Commission. I think it is very important here to stress that there is no arbitration of the European Commission but that "screening" is one mandatory part that precedes the negotiations. So there is no word that we can choose a law where we like to look for the European Commission. She'll do it in, along with us. This is already said in earlier documents such as a pre-accession strategy, and it will be clear after 2 February when the European Commission comes out with its negotiating framework. So this is about harmonising legislation and "screening" that we are going to implement. Furthermore, as regards the plan of this coordination plan and the legislative action plan of this year, I must say that they are based on the European Partnership, above all, but also on some other documents that have now become a candidate country for us, the matrix by which we agree. The European Partnership recognises the Institute of Short and Medium-term Priorities and asks the candidate country to adapt accordingly. So everything that we have put into the plan follows as said in the European Partnership but also in some other documents that are requested from the Republic of Croatia at the moment, so to speak. PET, pre-accession economic programme. Thus, it is required in exactly this way to expose what will be done in the short term. And finally, I would say and point out once again that since we are entering negotiations this year, since we are going to open, we hope as many chapters as possible in this year and that, accordingly, an analysis of the harmonisation of legislation, so-called. "screening" is evident that wherever there is found to be something that we did not recognize at this point as the necessary harmonisation that during the year when this "screening" chapter is thus concluded in certain chapters that we will also propose a revision of this national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30931	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And on this item of the agenda, in Appendix (a) to the national programme, we will vote behind February 2nd to agree and propose amendments and other proposals that have been made to this proposal. Third, the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2005. Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, 2005 The debate is closed. On the proposal for a plan for harmonisation, the amendment was submitted by the HSS Representatives' Club and SDP and HSS representatives' clubs. I ask the Minister of European Integration, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, to be seen on these amendments. First, Amendment No. 1 of the SDP and HSS Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30933	SDP and HSS, the amendment is not accepted on the grounds: that Law, the Law on Croatian Television, was also included in the list for harmonisation of legislation with the National Programme for 2004 which the Assembly confirmed last year. The Law of last year was transferred to the list for this year. However, following consultations and the adoption of a new Law on Croatian Radio Television, whose adoption of Appendix A of the 2005 National Association Programme was scheduled for the 3rd quarter to be transferred to the 4th quarter of 2005. Finally, a decision on the adoption of a new law will be made following an assessment of the compliance of Croatian legislation with the EU acquis in the field of media, so-called "screening". If, after "screening", the level of compliance with the acquis of the EU as well as with the recommendations of the Council of Europe is confirmed, a revision of the Plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out with the acquis of the European Union for 2005, and the following will not be joined by the drafting of the HRT Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30934	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, what's this about? It is that because of certain, to put it this way, party abuses are put as a topic to be discussed with Europe and through Europe something that has long been resolved in favour of this country, in favour of this Parliament, and it is exclusively about a point that is related to the way in which the HRT Programme Council is elected. There is no example of this, and there is no harmonisation of this, possibly a passage of that law to European legislation that would change anything in this matter except that it is more incomparably democratic than anywhere else. I understand, Mrs. Colinda, Madam Minister, that you've put that on and that you're somewhat aware that you should first go to the next law. However, the opening of these topics to Europe in a way that is voluntary in places where it is absolutely not necessary and where we have preserved both the sovereignty of this state and the responsibility of this Assembly, I think it is very bad and I think it is unnecessary and I think it is, therefore, I repeat before the consequences of any earlier party ill will, but any need that would arise from the very nature of the law itself. Thank you very much. We will certainly vote and demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30936	Thank you. Please engage. You can vote. Who is for this amendment to the SDP Representatives Club? We'll check it out now. Now let's see what's going on. Not now, a little patience while they get it done. Hold on. Is he okay now? It is. Please engage. I repeat, I am voting, please, the amendment of the SDP and HSS Club that the government does not accept. Please vote. Score. I am establishing 32 for the amendment, 6 abstentions and 67 against, the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment 2. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30937	The government accepts the amendments to the HSS Club of Representatives and the proposed seven legislative proposals will be added to a), and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy will set the exact date of reference of those proposals to the Government's procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30938	Thank you. This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the proposal for a coordination plan. Please engage. Vote for? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that 101 votes are for, three abstentions and no votes against a conclusion supported by the national programme, which is a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal gains of the European Union for 2005 in the text proposed by the proposer together with the amendment adopted. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Joining the European Union is supported in 2005, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 103 votes for and two abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. I am voting in favour of the conclusion proposed by the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club. Minister, please be clear about the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30939	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Despite the fact that amendments cannot be formally made to the text of the National Programme of the Croatian Parliament, we have held the right to adopt this proposed conclusion, and in that chapter of the National Programme, we will amend the text of the programme in order to achieve the objective of the proposed conclusion. Therefore, in accordance with that proposal, I will include the text in the text of the National Programme in point 3 of point 13 of point 7 of the Social Security, pensioners, persons with disabilities as follows: The Government of the Republic of Croatia will make every effort to maintain an existing level of protection of social rights and improve them in accordance with the policy of sustainability of the fiscal system and overall economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30940	Proposer consensual. We don't have to vote. And the wording of the conclusion proposed by the HSU Club becomes an integral part of the national programme. We've got more. Proposal for a conclusion of the SDP and HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30941	The proposal for a conclusion shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the amendment proposal for the list of legislation. Therefore, that Law on Croatian Radio Television was listed in the national accession programme for 2004, and it was transferred for 2005 with the difference that it was from the third quarter to the fourth quarter and that the final decision on the adoption of the Law would be made after the screening procedure was carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30942	Your Honor. You agree that, so that means withdrawing that amendment? ... Agree with the proposal. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Then you're withdrawing the motion for a conclusion? Then there must be a vote. Okay. Please engage. You can vote. Score. 31 for, eight abstentions, 66 against. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority. We are now going in line with our agreement on: - Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on general conditions for development cooperation, with the Final Bill, the Rapid Procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 232; The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. And does the State Secretary of the Ministry of European Integration want to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. The Committee's rapporteurs also do not want to. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30950	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government of colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it's a good idea to keep our mouths shut and not say anything about these very significant sproazums and laws that we need to pass today. Namely, it should undoubtedly be supported and the HNS PGS club will support all these bilateral disputes between the Republic of Croatia and other countries in our narrow or wider environment. Especially if this will improve political dialogue to create new areas of free trade, enable more free movement of labour and capital. Provision of cooperation services in the field of justice, home affairs and so on. It is logical that the European Community, for both economic and social reasons, and many others, is also interested in drawing up such agreements, in particular clearly within the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we know that they are clearly and suggestive and we are obliged to act in this direction. These clear agreements further contribute to the stabilisation and improvement of co-operation between the Southeast European countries. Now, however, there's something a little controversial where I'd like to intervene, and that's a question of what's before chicken or egg. Whether we make colleagues and colleagues this agreement from the primary interest of Croatia and the Macedonian side and in the desire to really improve our bilateral co-operation, or we make such agreements just to satisfy the form in order to satisfy what Europe requires of us in the framework of the stabilisation and accession process. As the agreement is made up and the other bilateral one is undoubtedly a clear impression that it is essentially our primary goal to meet the form and all of the criteria that the European Union is asking us to do. If colleagues and colleagues are indeed so and I particularly appeal to you, Mr President, then surely if the European Union is our main objective and the objective of these agreements, then we should have asked the Government to provide us with with with this proposal of the agreement and to comment on the proposals for the agreement which have been submitted to the European Commission's services since 10 April. It happens regularly that we Parliamentarians do not have the opportunity to access that data, so we cannot even compromise how much the agreement is essentially in line with their proposals and remarks. I would very much like to see that, and I think it would be difficult for us to make such proposals, requests, remarks from the European Commission's service in the future. If, on the other hand, we had the primary view that the agreement really covered all areas of interest for the two countries, while meeting the fundamental principles set before us by the European Community, then there must have been something different to be prepared. I believe that the European Community would not be undermining it would not mind the agreement catching and far wider areas of cooperation. In particular, in this case between Macedonia and Croatia there are a number of other areas of cooperation that should have been mentioned inside, it should have been a little more I would have told the spirit and the heart to invest in such an agreement. Finally another principled remark was inadmissible for many years that this proposal for an agreement should come to our benches should certainly be put at a higher speed, and should carry out such and similar tasks more quality and faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u30951	Thank you very much. Did State Secretary Mr Hidajet Biscevic. You don't have to explain anything further. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia in the framework of the approximation and accession of the European Union. Please identify yourself. To vote. The result? I find this law, 109 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33231	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 10th session held in 23.2.2005 the written request of the representatives of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebrang of 17 February 2005, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia had relieved him of his duties as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the Minister of Health and Social Care, by a decision of 16 February 2005. So the reasons for his representative's term of office ceased. And due to the incompatibility of the conduct of those duties with the agent's duty. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebrag, elected on the Croatian Democratic Community list in the 2rd election unit, began on 23 December 2003 and his deputy, Mrs Katarina Fuček, started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 23 December 2003. How's Mr. Professor Dr. In accordance with Article 13 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Andrija Hebrang submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the Committee found that the conditions had been laid down by law, so that the rest of the representative's term of office of Prof. Dr. Adnri Hebrang stopped eight days after the application. THE same day, his deputy, Katarina Fuchek, ceased to be represented. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy. It is found that on 25 February 2005, the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Prof. Dr. Andrija Hebranga and that the deputy representative, Mrs Katarina Fuček, stopped acting on 25 February 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33232	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that the decision was made with 90 votes in favour, four abstentions and two against. On behalf of our representative and representative, I would like to congratulate Mrs Katarina Fuček on her work so far with the hope that she will eventually return to these benches. [[Applause]] And second, the report on the suspension of MP Miromir Zuzul's term of office and the termination of deputy deputy representative Danira Bilic's term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33234	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 10th session held on 23 February 2005 the written request of the representatives of Prof. Dr. As of February 17th 2005, Miomir Zuzula, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia had relieved him of his duties as foreign minister, by a decision of 16 February 2005. So the reasons for his representative's term of office ceased, and because of the incompatibility of the minister's duties with the parliamentary duty. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Prof. Dr. Miomiru Zuzul, elected on the Croatian Democratic Community list in the 7th election unit, began on 23 December 2003 and his deputy, Mrs Danira Bilic, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 23 December 2003. How Mr. Professor Dr. Miomir Zuzul is in line with Article 13. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament made a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit of the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Dr. Miomir Zuzula's representative ended on the eighth day of the application and the same day his deputy deputy, Danira Bilic, ceased his duties as deputy. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to stop acting as deputy deputies. It is found that on February 25th 2005, the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of a representative to Professor Miomir Zuzul and that the deputy representative of Mrs Danira Bilic ceased to act as a representative on February 25th 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33235	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that a decision has been proposed with 85 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 3 against. I also congratulate Daniri Bilic on the same with the desire to return as soon as possible. [[Applause]] And now we would have a proposal to resolve and appoint members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. I ask the President, should the proposal be presented, all MPs have adopted the motion for a decision, and then I open the debate. I'm closing up. We're going to the vote. So, we have a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Committee to decide on conflicts of interest. Shall we vote in the package then? Okay. I would then like to vote on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest, as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. How about a score? I note that with 103 votes for and 6 abstentions, a decision has been taken to resolve the duties of members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest from the ranks of MPs: Đurđa Adlešić, Marija Bajt, Antun Kapraljevic and Nikola Mak. From the ranks of prominent public employees: Davor Derencinović, Milan Ramljak and Zdravko Tomac, and for members of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest are appointed from the ranks of MPs: Marija Bajt, Josip Leko, Pejo Trčević and Nikola Mak. And from the ranks of prominent public employees: Zlata Đurđević, Zorislav Antun Petrović and Desa Mlikotin-Tomić. And then we absorbed that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33238	Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The selection and appointment committee proposes to be a member of the Management Board on a proposal from the National Science Council, Dr Alenka Markotic. In addition to the material you have the résumé of Dr Alenka Markotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-01-20-0.u33239	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 82 votes for, 6 abstentions and 1 against a member of the Board of Directors of the National Science Foundation, Doctor Alenka Markotic was elected. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. Please, at the very beginning of our colleague, who has recently passed away, representatives of Snježana Bigi-Friganovic, honoring us with a minute of silence. It is a representative who was in four mandates, which I have self-absorbed with special sensitivity to social issues participated in the work of the Croatian Parliament and let us pay her the honours. - A minute of silence - thank you and thank you. - You've got a clean agenda for your session on the benches. Let's take it in a row. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the United Nations Convention against Corruption, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 235 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by committees on legislation, justice, internal policy and national security. The reports you received at the session. I ask the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Snjezana Bagic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
