ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44507	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I read that they...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44508	You don't have anything to read. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44509	The lawyers for the children resigned.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44510	You don't have anything to read and you don't have a word. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44511	I have the right to ask that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44512	You've got nothing. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44513	That someone should talk to us because you're in charge and responsible for...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44514	In accordance with Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44515	We care about Croatian institutions as much as we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44516	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44517	Something's going on out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44518	Please sit down, Mr. Cain! The Telecommunication Agency Council submitted a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Information, Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. I ask the President of the Council of the Telecommunications Agency, Gaspar Gachinu, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44519	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency as an independent, non-profit and independent legal person with public authority began working on 27 September 2004. As a legal successor, the Agency has taken over the property and documentation and the rights and obligations of the Telecommunications and Croatian Telecommunications Office Council. At the start of the Agency's work, the situation on the Croatian telecommunications market was as follows: Monopol on the fixed-net service market, a monopoly with the effect of the movable network monopoly, the approximation of the date 1.1.2005 when the exclusive rights on the Croatian telecommunications market formally ceased, high expectations for the public to finally begin full liberalisation. The unequivocal political will to liberalise has been under way, the public competition for the third GSM concessions has been under way and the unfinished process of adopting sublegal acts that are a prerequisite for the full application of the Telecommunications and Market Liberalisation Act. At the end of 2004, there has been intensive activities in the design of new regulations that I will mention only some of which have a significant impact on the development of the telecommunications market. The regulation on the portability of the number and pre-determination of the operator which entered into force in November 2004 also provides for a way to transfer the number from one telecommunications network to another. The Regulation regulated the way in which the number portability and pre-determination of operators in the Republic of Croatia were introduced and provided. The Telecommunication Services Regulation, which entered into force in December 2004, introduces the essential news necessary for the regulation of the telecommunications market and sets out, inter alia, the obligations of operators with significant market power on the relevant market. A new Regulation on the payment of compensation for the provision of telecommunications services and activities was subsequently adopted and the Regulation on concessions and licences for the provision of telecommunications services and activities has also been amended, thereby significantly reducing the price of licences and applications for the provision of telecommunications services. These sublaws are the result of the joint work of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Agency and other participants in the telecommunications market. The basic principles of HT work were: protection and security of the interest of telecommunications users, insurance and promotion of a market competition with equal opportunities for all participants. Disabling the abuse of a dominant position on the market and encouraging the introduction of new telecommunications services and technologies. Of course there are others, but I've singled this out as the most significant. I would now like to highlight the important decisions made by the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency by the end of 2004. That means in, at a time interval of 3 months. On 18 October, the first tender procedure was concluded with the award of two UMTS concessions and the refusal of one offer with GSM, which was widely publicised and fully explained in the full report. On 21 October, the opening of a second repeated public tender for concessions for the provision of services using radio spectrum in GSM-DSS 1800 and MTS. The first public-speaking service permit was granted on 19 November in fixed networks of Optima Telecom with a fee of 8 million under the old compensation rule. And actually with that date, it stops the monopoly in a fixed network that's been since 1876. 81st year, I'm sorry, 1881. On 16 December, a third-generation concession contract was concluded with UMTS companies VIP Net and T-Mobile with a fee of 132 million for the first year of work and 6 million fees for the use of frequencies. On 17 December, a second public-speaking service permit was granted in the fixed network of H1 Portus with an 8 million fee and finally 22 December was awarded a combined GSM DSS 1800 and in the MTS concession of TELE 2 d.o.o. In the report I gave, we gave a detailed explanation of our decisions in the first procedure and in the second and comparisons, the comparative data with which we wanted to show and explain why we refused in the first case and gave concessions in the second tender procedure. Now I'd like to say something about the Agency's professional service activities. Control and measurement. In the light of the urgency and complexity of the Agency’s control and technical examinations, the Agency’s tasks were carried out according to priorities: 1. measurement and testing of the purpose of determining and removing harmful interferences that interfere with the use of radio communications and radio and TT equipment. 2. measurement and testing of the value of the electromagnetic field in order to protect human health. 3. Control of the implementation of the Telecommunications and Sub-legislative Regulations adopted pursuant to Act 4 of conducting technical checks on 5th performance of all other obligations and tasks relating to the control of RE spectrum. The control service carried out in the control and measurement centres of the Agency Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and during this reporting period shall carry out technical checks on a total of 759 radio stations on which reports and the basis of which the licences have been issued and prescribed. In the Department of Radio Communications during 2004, there were 7000 345 requests for authorisation for radio stations. 5545 permits were issued and 871 denied as incomplete or missing. I mention the figures to show the size of the work being done in professional services. The Agency continued its activities in optimising the use of the radio spectrum of existing users in order to increase the capacity of frequency areas. The Agency also supported the Council for Electronic Media on the provision of available frequencies and the definition of technical parameters for radio and TV concessions. International activities during 2004 focused primarily on preparing and participating in a regional radio-communication conference to develop digital television plans. I would like to stress that next year in Geneva, after 45 years, there will be a conference that will adopt a frequency plan for digital television. 44 years ago in Stockholm, there was a conference that lived, so the results of that conference were also the effects and a conference for 45 years as regards the frequency for analogue television. The Agency has participated in working groups dealing with this problem. We have held a number of successful meetings with neighbouring countries in order to ensure better preparation of the regional conference.16 meetings, a total of 30 working days. With regard to the development of a frequency plan for digital television, the Agency's experts have fought, fought for our needs and achieved compliance with neighbours other than Italy where we have reached only a technical agreement for the time being. During this reporting period the Agency has carried out the procedures for assessing the conformity of radio and TT equipment with the essential requirements of the Telecommunications Act. The Agency also implemented the procedures for issuing conditions for the construction of telecommunications, housing and business facilities, issuing certificates on the arrangements of the main projects with building conditions. During 2004, 3 000 297 documents were processed and issued. The maximum number of documents has been processed in dispatch within 5 days of the day of receipt of the documents. State of the Croatian telecom market. The overall situation of the telecommunications market can be described by showing the distribution of total revenue per segment. These revenues relate only to the use of telecommunications infrastructure and services, not to producers and distributors of telecommunications equipment. The market potential at the end of the reporting period was $12.9 billion, of which on mobile waste networks 47.78%, fixed-net services 42.39%, interconnection service 3.55%, Internet 3.24%, data transfer and water rental 2.3%, and cable distribution and AP Voice below 0.5%. The trend of traffic growth and revenues in mobile networks and data transmission is evident, while the reduction of revenues from fixed networks is evident. State of telecommunications infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. The stationary network, the basic infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia owned by HT operator, includes more than 15 thousand kilometers of underground and underwater cables with total installed capacity of approximately 320 thousand kilometers of light thread and 50 thousand kilometers of copper cable. In addition, respectable lighting facilities have been built that are owned by Croatian highway companies, HEP, JANAF. Croatian railways and Croatian highway Rijeka-Zagreb. By connecting these cables, it is possible to build a new high-quality light source network of high transmission power at national level. The first step has already been taken by granting service permits to Croatian railway companies and Croatia's electricity industry. The total number of public voice users in an uninterrupted network, if the channels are viewed, is one million 850 thousand and if the contracts are analysed million 679 thousand 438. In mobile networks at the end of the reporting period there were 2 million 654 thousand penetration users 59%, of which T-mobiles million 393 thousand, 53% and VIP-net million 260 thousand or 47%. The number of Internet access providers during this reporting period was 17,7 providers of Internet access offers... vote via AP protocol, and another 5 service providers only give a voice through the AP protocol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total number of Internet users in the Republic of Croatia amounted to a million and 300 thousand at the end of 2004, representing about 29% of the population using the Internet, but only 22 thousand users had fast Internet access through ADSL technology. Cable distribution of radio and television programs. The service provider owned its own infrastructure was 22, the number of cable distribution users 129,000 860. I just want to point out from the financial report some relevant figures. The state budget payment on the basis of concession and licence fees in 2004 was 450 million kuna, total of which 355 million kuna since the start of the Agency's work. Also, as regards the final account, after obtaining consent to the final account of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, the excess income over expenditure of 32 million 452 000 has also been paid into the state budget. Since it's been nine months since the beginning of the year, I'd like to tell you some of the effects of liberalisation today, because this is all I've read it was, I say, the end of last year, so given the activities carried out this year and the decisions made by us today we have 14 operators who provide public voice services in fixed networks compared to one operator that was in September last year. Of those 14 three, they provide a favor. In mobile networks we have official, we have 3 operators, unfortunately only 2 still perform services. We do, there were 17 service providers on the Internet, now there are 49. As far as fast access to the Internet is concerned, we now have 68 grand through ADSL technology to those 22,000 users as late as last year. There is the biggest progress thanks to some initiatives, incentives by operators, and also to market regulation. As for the work of new operators so far, I can only say that there are all 10,000 numbers transferred, so in total 10,000 numbers, 9 thousand numbers used by the operator's pre-election service. Investments in, so for this year since I've been following the President of the Council, have been about a billion and a half kuna. 603 new jobs have been created. However, this is not a result that we can be satisfied with, if we know that HT has been fired or left in other ways by 503 employees. The effects of liberalisation on telecommunications services, therefore the number of telecommunications users and the type of services has increased, the amount of information transferred is increasing, the speed of access to the Internet is increasing, tariff models introduced from 1 second, mobile network operators have abolished the subscription, reduced service prices for end-users and in fixed and mobile networks. I would like to stress that the real effects of liberalisation will only be seen, and as far as tariff packages and prices are concerned, I would like to stress that it is important for each user to choose an adequate tariff model in accordance with their needs and habits of telephoning and service use, then the effects of liberalisation will be for everyone. I'd just like to conclude with one conclusion that I've already said somewhere. I believe that after too long of retaining exclusive rights in the Croatian telecom market, full liberalisation has begun that cannot be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44520	Thank you very much. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44521	Mr. President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. On 1 June 2005, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia, which is president of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Telecommunications Act was delivered by the Agency's Council on 24 May 2005. The Committee held an annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and discussed the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introduction was given by the president of the Agency's Council, who pointed out that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, as an independent, non-profit and independent legal person with public authority, started working in September 2004, and that, on the basis of public authority, it carried out tasks of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. The debate raised the question of when natural persons will be able to choose an operator, which would allow the price to be reduced to end-users, and which is the Agency's power to move the infrastructure out of the ownership of a single operator. It is also expressed its opinion that it should work to address the area of infrastructure that HT owns. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: The annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44522	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44523	Mr. President, President of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, ladies and gentlemen. The agency for its work corresponds to the Croatian Parliament and today with this report we will actually see the state and achievement of the principles, objectives, regulation of the Croatian telecom market. Since the agency was founded only in September last year, we can say that this report is actually her quarterly work results last year. The report detailed legal frameworks, structure, competence and strategy that actually gives us a good basis to understand its basic role, which is as we heard the regulation of the Croatian telecom market, as well as to monitor the quality of telecommunications services. In other words, the most significant role of the agency is to create competition and protect users. The agency will succeed in its work when it creates one ideal competition. It's actually a key role of the agency. The final regulation assessment may have been brief by the President of the Council, in fact, when we can see it, we will have opportunities to see it. In fact, perfect competition in economic terms means extra offers on the Croatian telecom market in the area of mobile networks, fixed networks, on the line, means the Internet, in fact erasing the difference between all brands, cheap information, free entry and exit from the telecom market. In fact, the Croatian market will then be regulated as may be regulated, for example. in the beer market in Croatia. In such circumstances the ideal competition of the competing companies, so telecom operators will actually be able to accept the price, and the customers will be the ones to say how willing they are to offer for such a service. At that time, the agency's annual report in the Croatian Parliament will no longer be necessary, i.e. the Croatian market will finally be regulated. The opening and deregulation of the telecom market shows in fact how determined the Croatian government is to implement market reforms. It is also a very important part of the Stability and Association Pact, which has great support for the European Union, and for Croatia means bringing closer to European integration. How much of Croatia is here compared to some countries of transition to advantage last night we could see on a television show where it was mentioned about the start of the date of negotiation when it was very clear that we are in relation to Serbia-Montenegro as regards the Stability and Association Pact in the advantage of five-and-a-half years which actually means value in terms of telecommunications, a telecommunication era because it is the time it takes to replace such equipment. In the world, the telecom sector is on the rise primarily because of the development of new technologies that encourage and new services, but we are witnessing the slow transformation of the competent national regulatory authorities. I'll look back on history for a little while. We witnessed frequent conflicts, councils and the Telecommunications Office, and the culmination of these conflicts took place in 2003 when the concession was awarded to the company "Divan". Shortly after that, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison annulled this concession. This is actually proof of how slow regulation is going, how much regulatory authorities may sometimes be independent, but in any case, regulation needs to be respected in front of an independent agency body. According to the law, it was also late for a full year with the establishment of the agency. In order to properly compare the quality of the work of today's agency, I will provide a copy of how someone else evaluated us, so in 2003, and I found a report from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by online. According to this, the EBRD's annual report on transition countries, at the end of 2003, the Croatian agency, i.e. the then Telecommunications Council, was only better than Albanian, I am talking about their assessments, and at the same time worse than similar agencies, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Georgia, Slovakia, Hungary, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In this EBRD survey conducted by the bank, the agencies have been evaluating according to transparency, independence and accountability, and the Croatian agency, i.e. at the time, received a score of 1.6 from a maximum score of 5. She got her highest score. But we must admit that this assessment can be subjective and in fact it is perhaps a subjective evaluation of the EBRD due to the inability to enter their surplus capital into the Croatian market. Today's agency represents a new and stable form of regulators and in its short existence along with the competent ministry had significant steps in the field of demonopolisation of the Croatian market, as we have today had the opportunity to hear. By the end of last year, the agency issued two licenses for competition to the fixed network, specifically Optimi and Portus, and by now there are already 12 new concessions of which two in the direct competition of the Croatian Telecom. The Agency also adopted a decision on the provision of services on the portability of the number and selection of operators. The Telecommunications Agency also faces new challenges. For further deregulation, the Agency's institutional capacity needs to be strengthened, expert supervision should be strengthened in the ministry. As a result, the Agency as a market regulator must be firm and its decisions must be respected. If that were the case, it was shown and awarded concessions for the third GSM network. In fact, in the Assembly, we discussed the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the opening of an international public tender for the third GSM operator, and only one day before our debate, the agency signed a contract with the Swedish consortium "Tele 2". Then we can remind ourselves that he made the only offer, so the Swedish consortium "Tele 2", and as... Croatia's mobile and Madch Telekom are actually late. [[You don't understand.]] The second round was repeated, then all three bidders gave that the offer "Tele 2" was now more complete for 70 million kuna in favour of the Croatian state budget due to the concession... and the estimate of capital investment by 2000 means it was higher by 640 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] Administrative oversight of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency was then carried out, and after reviewing the tenders received from the tendering documents, the Ministry found that there were no elements for the cancellation, or lawyers would say there was no injured material law. The addition of this report was partly given a financial report which mainly speaks about the way the agency was financed with 0.2% gross income and concessionaries and 5% compensation for the use of radio frequencies. This is actually one I would say one more primitive form of showing the financial report, because it only tells the difference between income and expenditure. So he didn't give the bill to win and lose, he didn't give cash Flow. In any case, it is worth showing the surplus revenue of 32 million kuna which should be paid into the state budget. I personally believe that the President of the Council, or the Council, should be wise to spend some of this money first and foremost in creating new professional personnel, in buying expensive software, in buying super technology that will enable very precise, means measuring perhaps future very important problems that will arise on the Croatian telecom market in measuring interconnection and other parameters. I believe that personally the agency must indeed be independent for these very reasons they will need a lot of new personnel I would say, more correct regulatory and professional regulations and I believe that it is not enough once to go to the fair in Hanover or perhaps in Geneva. There are new challenges ahead of the agency, and the most important thing is to separate infrastructure regulation and regulation of services, as the Committee's representative said. I believe that here it will need help and the rule of law, in any case, because infrastructure today is held by perhaps an operator on the part of the local administration, but in any case, for the arrival of real competition, it will be necessary to determine the real master of such infrastructure. The development in the field of information society and the deregulation of the telecom market as a whole must be unfair, made only for the sake of the approximation of the European Union, but it must be a practice because it is the only way to ensure development in the future. The HDZ Club will support the Agency's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44524	Thank you very much. The HNS-PGS club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44525	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. It's been almost half a year, and we have a full, burdened report with professional concepts, undefined goals, and unfortunately we can't make a single concrete move forward. The experience of more advanced countries is also about a number of difficulties in achieving and a strong effort to slow down the liberalisation process because it is simpler and requires less effort than investment in increasing the quality of services and consumer care. Although two new public voice service providers appeared in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2004, 11 were granted permission. We still can't say that Croatian citizens are making cheaper phone calls because so far less than 1% have changed operators. I feel invited to point out several important facts that will complete the picture of the current state of liberalisation in the Croatian telecoms market. What hasn't been achieved? The following has not been reached. One, a single account for telecommunications services. The calculation of all costs for telecommunications services on one document has proved to be an important obstacle for citizens to move on to a new operator. We still don't have it, so we're asking a question when are we going to have one single phone bill? Two, unregulated interconnection services. There are still unregulated and undefined interconnective services without which it is not possible, for example, to call a taxi service, send a telegram, find out the exact time or the like. In reality, this means that these numbers are available exclusively through the T-HT network, which clearly indicates the monopoly this Agency is trying to deny. Under three, grouped products. Let me briefly explain what these are, so-called grouped products. Grouped products shall include at least one monopolised product or service in combination with those available on the market. The most drastic example of the violation of this principle is the inclusion of free minutes in the subscription which puts new operators in a completely unequal position. Namely, T-HT increases the subscription for those subscribers who choose a new operator as pre-selected because T-HT's 60 kuna subscription includes 10 kuna free of charge talks. And when the subscriber is granted a new operator as a pre-elected outgoing call operator, T-HT continues to pay the same amount of subscription. Or, for free minutes, they've been suspended. Under four. High interconnection prices to mobile networks and T-HT. The fact that over 75% of the amount that new payment operators charge to users goes to T-HT. Which he justifies by the need to maintain infrastructure. It's funny on the one hand, and on the other, it's long-term unsustainable for any new operator to survive. And as it is known, this extremely high-priced connection of new operators to T-HT approves of exactly who? Agency. For illustration, the interconnection price paid by fixed operators to mobile phone operators for calls via mobile networks is 90 lip per minute. While the price paid by mobile operators to fixed operators for calls to fixed networks is only 13 lip per minute. I think they should be evened in both directions for 13 lips per minute. Under point 5, high prices for the purchase of water. Currently on the Croatian market, there are 10 operators who rent water from T-HT and use it for their own purposes or for market resales, earning optimalisation of traffic management. In doing so, it is unacceptable for T-mobiles and Vipnets to have prices of 40 to 50% more favourable than other operators. This is the state of the Telecommunications Agency that protects the positions of two multinational companies, in fact opposes the strategy this House voted on January 25th 2002, which supports attracting new companies from the high-tech area. Ladies and gentlemen, with this kind of policy, we will not attract anyone. Under six, uncomplicated local loops, it is a place where it connects to the phone network, by keeping the uncomplicated local loop T-HT has only created a huge advantage in the existing user base so far, because since 1.1.2005 it has had slightly more than 20,000 ADSL users, and thanks to the delay in providing access to local loops, this number has so far increased by no less than 200%. In fact, there are about 60 grand of them today. While other operators are really allowed access to local loops, T-HT will achieve a base of 100,000 users and will be in an even more powerful market position. According to the Regulation adopted by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Liaison, the implementation of the local loop access service in accordance with the recent amendments made to the Regulation on access to the local loop could practically begin only on 1 January 2006, which is exactly one year later than the legal deadline for the provision of these services to all new operators and which would delay the provision of this service to the general population. It should be pointed out that this damage has been done to citizens, in this case ADSL users who have been denied the possibility of a choice for the whole year, and thus savings in the home budget. It's the seventh point. Limited ability to change operators. Did any of you in this assembly try to change the operator? If you've tried, you've certainly encountered a lack of paperwork imposed by this particular agency. Does it have to be like that? It is in a number of developed European countries, such as Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, which are often referred to as role models as possible to change the operator by a telephone call. The survey conducted early this year showed that more than 50% of users want to change the operator. One of the important reasons why this has not been done so far, not even 1% of households have done it is exactly the administrative procedure. Photocopying IDs, signing a number of documents, etc. And it is expected that the ADSL service procedure, which should soon be adopted, will be even more complicated precisely because the users of ADSL services are also citizens of higher pay power. It's the eighth point. Access network and infrastructure are national good. In silence, T-HT is the owner of the entire sewerage's speech without being declared an operator with a majority stake under the law. Only for the illustration is the highlighted information that T-HT rents cable sewers at a price of 3 kuna per metre and rents at a price of 7 kuna per metre. Under nine, the analysis of the fixed telephony subscription in the European Union countries. The matter of subscription is a nightmare for most citizens, but let's say we can justify its existence, but how to justify its increase for citizens. It is no secret that in other developed markets, former monopolies have tried to protect their market share by retaining the exclusive right of fixed telephony subscription that little by little increase each year. On the other hand, the prices of the talks show a frequent decline in which the market fictitiously shows an improvement in the state for the end-user. Why in our country we are guided by the worst examples of support for the monopoly that this same agency justifies by using "betch" marketing, i.e. methods of comparison with others. Under 10, improving the efficiency of regulators. In addition to an appropriate and impartial case, responsible and capable, make a timely reasoned decision and enable it to be implemented quickly in an extremely dynamic telecommunications market. The agency is expected to act in a timely and current manner to protect not only competition but also the interests of end-users themselves. For example, Rio, a law that regulates market relations instead of 1.1. In 2005, passed by a three-month delay and for which no one took responsibility. They are well - known to be up to 1. 1. In 2005, as many as two operators made payments to the agency, 8 million kuna, and it had not prepared a further framework for their work in time. And in conclusion, deregulation of the telecommunications market means not only the adoption of legal and sublegal acts but also the strict monitoring and control of the implementation of the competition. Otherwise, chaos is created on the market that only favors former monopolies and large players. What is even more important is the least favourable situation for citizens, and this is exactly the situation we currently have on the telecommunications market of the Republic of Croatia. The main task of the former and current THT monopoly in the competitive environment is to make it impossible for new operators to penetrate the market, and that is clear. Therefore, by analysing the telecom regulatory framework in the last 10 months, I am warning of the seriousness of the situation in the telecom market. More specifically, I am expressing reasonable doubt about the impartial action of the agency, which, by supporting procedural, legal and technical reasons, slows down the process of liberalisation and challenges the reason for its existence. With the hidden blessing of TT, the agency exhausts the limited budgets of new operators, resulting in increasingly dissatisfied citizens who have less or less choice. More importantly, it does not affect the reduction of the telecommunications costs of households and the economy as a whole, calling into question the basic meaning of market deregulation. I would also remind us that the national development strategy defined by the Parliament already mentioned on 25 January has given us two things to do, under 1st, to build a cheaper, faster and safer infrastructure by creating an information and telecommunications market with direct competition in extending new services, and attracting new companies from this area. And under 2nd, achieve the liberalisation of the telecommunications market as soon as possible. Let's ask ourselves what we've done and how much of this we've achieved so far. If we continue at this pace, Croatia will achieve its full liberalisation only in five years, in 2009. We do not need to remind ourselves that this situation presents a serious problem on the way Croatia enters the European Union, and it can be freely required to include it on the list of priorities for finding an emergency solution that we are doing this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44526	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44527	I would correct only one of a series of incorrect allegations to Alenka Košaša Chicin-Shain, she said that no positive step has been taken in the regulation of the Croatian telecom market, I would say significant steps have been taken, the third GSM concession has been awarded, three concessions for UMTS have been awarded. Twelve concessions for a fixed network were awarded, rules were adopted on the selection of operators and interconnections, while only one concession was awarded at the time of the former office and there the former ministry abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44528	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44529	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the assembly, representatives of the agency. Allow this report and our address to be more comments of the Agency's annual report and some suggestions than the real situation on the ground. However, we consider this year's Telecommunications Agency's report as a lesson because more than 50% of the agency's content focuses on the legal framework that we ourselves have brought that we should know in fact what framework we are ruling on, I think it's our first, first regret that the agency should not put so much effort and time into investing and instructing us in the framework we are in. The other 50% of the reports we have in front of us actually show that it was not the agency but the institution whose agency is a legal successor. We must remember that this is the Croatian Telecommunications Institute and the Telecommunications Council. What the Agency did in the last quarter was founded on 17 September 2004, when the appointed members of the Agency's Council in this House were not awarded a concession for mobile telephony, in fact, assigned or not. All of us seem to have forgotten about the Tele 2 affair and not giving concessions at the first competition, and the competition has repeated itself. It is our conclusion that this is clearly the intention of awarding the concession to a more similar concessionaire. The consequences of the cancellation of competitions and the launch of a new competition so that a concession for the third GSM operator would be awarded in the competition, it was obviously designed because valuable time was lost, and so far we really do not have a third GSM operator, i.e. he has not yet started to provide services and this has been established. Therefore, since the announcement of major liberalisation on the telecom market has nothing and the question is whether it will be because the Agency has done nothing to lower prices, but it has been professionally explained to each other, which is why operators in fixed telephony, which instead of 20 thousand kunas paid 8 million kuna, have failed to win a single percentage of the telecommunications market. That it's not just about the incompetence of these operators who paid the licenses expensively tells the fact that no other operators in fixed-line telephony have made any market breakthrough. Well, it's not like they're all incompetent because there are prominent business experts among them. We're afraid the problem lies elsewhere. If we agree that our laws are in line with the European Union in fact with the directives, it is obviously a question of the expertise of the people who should implement these laws in action. As a result, we have the latest report already mentioned here by the World Bank according to the conditions of business in the Republic of Croatia, which is the lowest in the region, i.e. from all transition countries, and we think that it is the lowest and most isolated of the Republic. I wonder how much the situation on the telecommunications market has contributed to such a rating. However, this is not the most important, the rating can be repaired and repaired but the money to citizens who pay the most expensive phones in Europe will not be returned. So the benefits of liberalisation don't feel and the question is our citizens and the question is when will they feel it or will they feel it at all. Although the law states that the Agency is independent in its work and that it is strictly forbidden to put any pressure on the Agency’s work, it is obvious that the Agency is not completely independent and that someone is putting pressure on the members of the Agency is also violating the Law. The question here should be asked whether it is in our legal system as a rule or an exception. It would rather be said that it is a rule, and it should not be surprised when we recall or are sufficient to recall the debate in this House of Higher Education in the appointment of individual members of the Agency. In fact, although the Law accurately states who cannot be appointed because of a possible conflict of interest, some members were appointed even though they were known to be in conflict of interest. The report does not show anywhere in the Agency's work plan as well as the financial plan and the 2004 financial report other than revenue and expenditure, whether the Agency has a financial plan and a final account, whether it is obliged to submit it in its annual report to the Assembly if the Assembly is the founder of the Agency. It might be interesting to see how the agency spends the money we provided her through the law for her independence from the executive authority. If, remember, the government of the Republic of Croatia has to report to this House we don't see why the agency doesn't have to. This is why we would suggest that the Agency's report be returned and completed with the necessary final bill in a way that we have a plan of work and a financial plan so that we can compare a few jobs and figures. We also need to consider whether it is a good legal solution for a responsible person at the agency who is spending money to propose and adopt the final account as a supervisory body. This turns out to be the director of the agency at the same time as the chairman of that agency's supervisory board. In conclusion, the HSS asks a lot of dilemmas, there are no answers to questions and we think it's a good thing that this report is discussed once further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44530	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Representative Antun Kapraljevic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44531	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a report from the Croatian Telecommunications Agency for four months last year, and the very good agency has written out everything that has been given to her by law and what is defined by sublegal acts, and most of the reports actually refer to how the agency is set up and what it should do and what a very small part of that entire report refers to the effects of their work i.e. to what they were meant to accomplish according to these tasks arising from the law. Since colleague Alenka listed these ten points that were pretty badly done, so the agency didn't do anything about it, I would touch just a few things. First I'd ask a question like what I'm hearing regularly driving along this road of Slavonic driving home and listening to, say, Radio Osijek and suddenly I'm getting into some kind of Big1, and I'm listening to, say, Radio Novsk, and suddenly I don't know what they're called. Anyway, I see it's within the jurisdiction of the measuring control service, so among other things, they have to do this international reports of interference according to the measurement reports, which means they need to protect our radio space from the intrusion of others. By driving on the highway, we realize that this signal is either too large or ours is too small, so we should sort of regulate it because I think while I'm listening to Radio Osijek that you should listen to it all the time if they have a concession on that particular area and it would be very good that these international relations are regulated that we don't have to listen to "date, date, date, yes" and so on similar music on those radio stations. Then I'm interested in one thing that's not even in the report at all, and that's what you're saying here, you're saying about the interconnection that the cost model of interconnection was developed in early 2003 where HT d.d. made a model based on the above-down principle. And you also stated that you'd be doing the model from the bottom up. However, you did not specify anywhere the difference between one model, another model, in which way you regulated it to be lower because it does not say anywhere how much it is, in which way it is defined by some third model because I believe that HT is doing the price of its interaction normally taken into account that they very well at that profit interconnection and I do not see how this reflects against the citizens, means to lower the price in the interconnection. One more thing I'd like and expect to be in the second report because this is a report in four months. I hope so, since you'll have a whole year in three months. As it will be for the next year, I expect that this report will be responsible for all these ten points that we have put here as a problem that is currently on our fixed network telecommunications market, fixed telephony, and I expect that you will also tell us in that report how this is achieved by law, which are expected effects on the economy and the telecommunications sector in the Republic where it is under point 4 and you say under point 4. the reduction of service prices to end-users. And the council, in fact, is the agency, in any case, that should worry that this price for end-users, means to the citizens as little as possible. And liberalisation and everything you need to do in your work should also lead to end-users feeling it on their budget. And I'm also interested and I believe that in this report and this 5th point, you're going to process, and that's an increase in quality and type of service. Because we know very well that those who currently have a monopoly invest very little or almost nothing invest in the development of telecommunications equipment because I happen to know what the situation with TT is now with Deutsche Telekom. I know that even at the time of the war we made a complete optical infrastructure for us and that Deutsche Telekom inherited all this because it was all done throughout Croatia during the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44532	Thank you. Final review of the President of the Council of the Telecommunications Agency, Gaspar Gachina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44533	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Indeed, when these shortcomings are listed, or what has not been done, or the effects that are not seen since the liberalisation process, I would like to say that this is a process, that the effects will be seen very quickly, that in 15 days the HT infrastructure will be used in the approach because we have made such a decision, that we have prices of standard offers, so the rental of their infrastructure has already changed and reduced and we will still do so. I've written down all the remarks on the weakness in our work. With all due respect, we're going to consider all this and everything that's weak we're going to fix but I just want to point out that the Austrian regulator has worked for five to seven years to come to this level of liberalisation as it is now. We had a workshop from August 30-31 with an Austrian regulator who was very instructive to us. We don't take so many years, we can skip a lot of steps but some things don't because we don't have the right to destroy the telecommunications market. We must give this monopoliest a chance to adjust his business, rationalize. So our decisions must be measured, we must stay away from extremes but I want to convince you from this lofty place and it is my honor to be here today that the regulator really wants to work honestly on the benefit of our citizens and the economy and that you will surely see the results of our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44534	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen of the Parliament. We have a short task, these few points to vote on, which we discussed. Please engage first to determine the quorum. Please engage those who are not yet. Quarum 77. We're going to the vote. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. We can vote. The result? With 74 for and 4 abstentions, the annual report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44537	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of the legal obligation of Article 7. The energy regulation law, the Energy Regulatory Council at least once a year, was obliged to inform the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia of their work and observations which are important for the development of the energy market and public services. The report before you is also the latest report on the regulation of energy activities since, at the end of 2004, the energy legislative framework has seen significant changes in which, according to the Law on Energy Regulatory Activities of December 2004, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is established as the legal successor of the Regulatory Council. The report before you is accompanied by detailed financial reports, i.e. The balance sheet on 31 December 2004 and the income account and the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 1st to 31st, 1st., 1st., 1st., 31st., 1. 1 to 31. 12. In 2004, the final accounts for the work of the Energy Regulatory Council for 2004 as well as the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give prior consent to the final account of the funds for the work of the Energy Regulatory Council. In a substantive sense, the report is made up of two parts. First of all, I think of the work of the Energy Regulatory Council in a narrow sense. Second, observations that are important for the development of energy markets and public services in 2004. In 2004, as regards the work of the Regulatory Council, it once again marked the work on the further development of the legislative and regulatory framework for the energy sector, i.e. the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, especially the work on a series of sublegal acts that should have a significant impact and determine the work of the Regulatory Council. Since part of these acts had not been completed until the end of 2004, or acts had not been adopted, this meant that one significant part of the area and competence of the Regulatory Council in that year had not yet been covered or could not be covered since the contents, procedures, or competences and obligations had not been defined. By the end of 2004, the Regulatory Council had fully and almost entirely resolved all the requirements received by energy operators to be granted permits to carry out energy activities. In fact, only requirements which have not been complete, i.e. energy entities with regard to the requirements prescribed did not provide complete documentation and valid evidence remain unresolved. In terms of economic strength and total annual income, at least 99% of energy operators in the Republic of Croatia today are holders of the relevant permits issued by the Board of Regulators and without those permits, their work would not be possible. A significant part of the activities of the Energy Regulatory Council has been dedicated and has been linked to further work on tariff systems, oil transport, gas transport and control of the use of previously adopted tariff systems. On several occasions, the Board of Regulators adopted solutions and opinions in the process of monitoring the application of the tariff system to the supply of natural gas to tariff customers. It should be pointed out that the process of supervision of the application of this tariff system, which was the obligation of the Regulatory Council, has entered into serious congestion as it has created difficulties and the Board of Regulatory and Competent Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and Energy Entity and finally and distributed gas undertakings in the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2004, decisions were taken to establish tariffs for the next year for the use of the natural gas transport system and the transport of oil systems. The Regulatory Council actively participated in activities related to the regional energy market, participated in the work of international meetings, conferences, seminars and workshops in the country and abroad through the domestic international association, institutions together with them or together with them and several cases were only the organiser of such meetings. The Board of Regulators addressed complaints and complaints from customers and energy operators, led the mediation procedures, for example. in connection with the island of Vir and intervened in finding quick and acceptable solutions to disputes between customers and energy operators and other participants and collaborated with consumer, media and professional public organisations. The Regulatory Council has actively co-operated and provided a number of useful proposals and developments in the process of developing several sublegal, legal, sublegal documents and through other forms of cooperation with bodies, state administration institutions to the economy ministry, labour and entrepreneurship. The Regulatory Council has actively contributed to further improving the legality of the legislative and regulatory framework of the energy sector and the market in the Republic of Croatia as well as their promotion on the international agenda. The second part of the report before you is giving the state, energy and overview of the state of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2004 and it was next. In connection with the sector and the electricity market, there has been a stalemate in the restructuring processes, detachment, etc. ... activities and then up to the opening of the electricity market, dominantly due to problems or doubts regarding the model of the power sector power plant and the position of the system operator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a situation where the process of restructuring the energy sector and the opening of the energy market in the Republic of Croatia came to a turning point, not to say at a standstill and when the process of creating the regional electricity market in the Republic of Croatia has been accelerated, significant changes in the energy, legislative and regulatory framework have been made. At the end of 2004, a significant reconstruction of the current legislative framework was carried out with changes and additions, i.e. the adoption of new versions of 3 of the 5 energy laws. Sectors, the natural gas market is significantly in line with the requirements of the European Union Directive, natural gas supply in the Republic of Croatia is carried out by INA naphthaplin, commercial business sector, price system, regulated and appropriate system. In the case of gas transport with defined legally objected access, an actual regulated approach shall apply, in effect, to which the Council shall determine the amount of prices for the use of the transport network. The transport of gas is also separated into a separate company that is fully owned by the Republic of Croatia. There are a lot of problems with the energy activity of gas distribution. Namely, distribution capacity areas for distribution are fragmented companies burdened with financing problems, the status of earlier investments and investments by customers, i.e. gas consumers, have not been resolved by the problem of new investments or sources, no ownership issues have been resolved. In the oil and petroleum products sector, the objected approach shall apply within the ceiling of the tariff established by the Regulatory Council. A known formula mechanism shall apply to oil derivatives prices. In late 2004 and early 2005 respectively, the sector and the heat market have been regulated since the adoption of laws, production, distribution and supply of thermal energy. It should once again be pointed out here that the biggest obstacle to further development and the introduction of the market in the energy sector and in this regard in a certain way and to increasing the quality of public services in the Republic of Croatia was not the adoption or the timely adoption of sublegal acts. Finally, let me just point out that we have attached a detailed report on the work of the Council with all the balance sheets and the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the same. Since the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency was established on 19 July, i.e. registered in the court register of the Trade Court, I wish them successful and good work on behalf of the former Energy Regulatory Council on 19 July 2005. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the former Energy Regulatory Council, I thank you for your cooperation and understanding, i.e. confirm our previous reports and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44538	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Kresimir Ćosic on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44539	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In late 2004, a reconstruction of the energy, legislative and regulatory framework under which the Regulatory Council worked until then was implemented. Under the new Energy Activity Regulation Act, instead of the Energy Regulatory Board, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA was established as its legal successor. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent and non-profit public institution is independent in taking all organisational measures necessary for the smooth performance of functions and compliance with the law of established obligations. The Agency’s obligations and responsibilities shall be amended in relation to the Regulatory Council and its organisation and governance structure. The Agency will carry out professional activities in the framework of its work and operations. In short, it was about important changes in the energy regulation segment in the Republic of Croatia. the new obligations and responsibilities in a substantive and procedural sense require further and detailed consideration in which experience and knowledge acquired by the current Regulatory Council can and will be of great benefit. But what is particularly important at this time is to highlight in the current work of the Energy Regulatory Agency Council was not fully qualified to carry out these important and key tasks, and I believe that one of the priorities in the future work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will be just to look for new, high-quality, competent people who can face all those tasks and challenges ahead of that important regulatory body. Several people who have worked in the Council very high-quality and professionally so far, I hope that it will spread very quickly with really all those who can give the necessary strength to this important regulatory agency. In this report written on April 29th, we did not have the opportunity to see what happened in the meantime, and we hope that in the report that we will have next year we will see an institution that is truly qualified to do all those important tasks. Let us remember for a moment all those tasks and tasks that the Energy Regulatory Council is taking on itself. Under number 1 it is the issue and withdrawal of permits to carry out energy activities, an important activity. The implementation of tenders for the construction of electricity production facilities for tariff customers, participation in the process of producing and adopting documents, and in particular in giving prior consent to the development plan, as well as giving prior consent to the development plan, the construction of the distribution network. As regards the granting of authorisations, the Regulatory Council continued to issue authorisations for the performance of energy activities during 2004. Statistics. By the end of 2004, the Regulatory Council received a total of 208 applications for authorisation to carry out energy activities, and were resolved by 190 gas distribution 38 permits, transport of oil derivatives 43, etc. This all shows the intensity of the development of this important energy sector. The important role of the Council has so far been the subject of, as defined by the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Energy Act on price fixing in the tariff system with regard to electricity production, electricity transmission, electricity distribution and electricity supply. One of the important topics that deserves special attention concerns renewable energy sources. More significant use of renewable energy sources in the long-term interest of the Republic of Croatia, and thus faster development of renewable energy sources, wind energy, hydroenergy, solar energy, bio-mass, waste, bio-gas and geothermal energy as well as environmental heat is one of the priorities in the development of the Croatian energy sector. It is certainly the area that is very important for the further growth of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular the engagement of a whole series of medium and small enterprises that can find very challenging and high-quality projects and jobs in this sector. International co-operation in the energy sector is extremely important and I will say just a few words. During 2004, the Regulatory Council continued its activities on the international agenda, co-operated with coherent authorities at regional level, as well as at European level. The co-operation of the Council, namely today of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency with the regional association of energy regulators, has been going on since 2002 and is extremely important. The energy sector of Southeast Europe is one of those that is developing extremely rapidly and that are being estimated at hundreds of billion euros by 2010. In any case, in this area Croatian companies and Croatian companies can find a great opportunity for numerous projects and their growth, Končar, Dalekovod etc. So far, the engagement of Croatian companies in this part has been noticeable, but it was not enough and it seems to me that Croatian companies can engage more seriously together, but better organised. The cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in the regional energy market is important, it should also be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the so-called Athens memos from 2002, 2003 on the establishment of the energy market. The Athens Memorandums agreed on the establishment of a forum consisting of representatives of the European Commission, governments, regulators and transmission network operators from the participating countries. Furthermore, participation in the work of European Energy and Gas Forums is important, cooperation in other energy bodies is very important. What she deserves is a few words about the financing of the Regulatory Council. The Council has so far been financed by the income of its own activity through the payment of one-off fees and fees, as well as from 0.07% of the total annual revenue made in the previous year by energy entities. These financial resources are very important and assumptions are for the normal and effective work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. When we talk about all these issues, then perhaps a few words should be said in the overall energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Such a strategy should be aimed at improving overall efficiency in the energy sector, diversifying energy sources, fostering energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources, improving and security of energy supply, promoting effective price policy and ensuring environmental protection. The Croatian energy sector is now in a period of important business organisational and legal restructuring aimed at building and strengthening institutions such as the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Croatian Electricity, as well as all those companies that play an important role in the Republic of Croatia, but can and must play an increasingly important and important role in the area of Southeast Europe. Strengthen companies such as Končar, Dalekovod, as well as many other medium and small enterprises are extremely important tasks, and prepare them for possible privatisation processes and change of ownership relations. That requires special attention. The energy sector regulation focuses on the implementation of a stable investment legislative framework as well as on the process of harmonising the entire domestic legislation with European Union documents, which in the energy sector would mean harmonisation of the sector in accordance with the provisions and directives of the European Union. It is certain that, in its further work alongside its personnel teaming, the Agency will continue to work with a whole range of important institutions in the Republic of Croatia and institutions as well as other companies that have human potential knowledge and competences to work on the development of the energy sector, but also work to create the energy sector of Southeast Europe. Many foreign respected consulting companies in the area and in these businesses earn huge financial resources. Given the knowledge and abilities we have in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that a lot of things can happen in this important sector as well as in recent years. The HDZ Club definitely has no objections to this report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44540	Thank you very much. The HNS-PGS club, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44541	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I was really thinking whether or not I'm gonna answer this, but since this is a memorial session of the Board of Regulators since this last package of laws, it practically doesn't exist, so since it's a dead body, it's always the best thing about dead people. So, and what you'd like to say about the council's work and the processing of these materials was last year, either this year, I haven't seen it in years. There's nothing special to say or add, it's obviously a small number of people successfully carried out. With this package of laws, these jobs have gone to the Agency's jurisdiction. Whether it will be and when it is not this government but another government, that's the question. It may be that the Council will come to life. I don't think it's too smart to open up some new public institutions where you hire a large number of people. I've always been inclined to deal with as few people as possible who are, clearly working on some non-profit basis, as few people in such institutions as possible, and to give professional jobs to those on the market. The institutes, the institutions, the projects, and that would be much, much smarter. That's what we'd actually be developing here, that segment. Probably possible tomorrow, I don't mean from this branch, and for some foreign market, not European, but someone else. And this is how we look like we're just increasing the number of people in the state service, and you know when someone has no profit, when there's no market, then we act like one, no one can pay me as little as I can work. That's what I think about Mr. Cosic who used to say. This material and Mr. Cliepo have mostly looked back on that liberalisation of the energy market, gas, oil, and that's what you're talking about with us, it's like a broken ass. There's nothing to say because we don't have it. We have monopolies, there's no market and there's no openness. True, the truth is that we need to talk about this because it is an obligation that follows if we want to join the European Union. And so, we have to talk about it, we have to at least act like there's something going on in that sense. I'm afraid you're not doing anything, I think the last package of laws has made some things even more centralized, let alone that they've become marketable, that they're heading towards the market. I'm not sure there's a clear enough concept of development here. I don't know what's going on in that sense, in terms of privatisation, or selling these, to that system. I mean, I don't know if, then he doesn't even know the public if I don't. At least I'd read something from the papers. Although some assets are probably planned from that budget sale. And that's something that can be interesting to the public, it's something that can affect consumers because they want to, unwantedly, we in Croatia today have half the price of energy from Italy. Now think about what happens after joining the European Union. We have some potentials that could be charged well if we enter that market, and we have the opportunity to sell it all out together and run out of national wealth. So, what are we gonna choose I don't know? What I'm talking about, I've already talked about here once, and that's the hydroenergy that, according to this 2004 report, was 43.5%, so over 7 billion kilowatt-hours of hydroenergy of 16 billion and something as much consumption in Croatia. The price of this production is minimal. It is only the cost of maintenance and the costs of the people employed in that segment. They're practically so old, they're all amortized. After a long time, and you're 84 years old. In this year, another hydropower plant began to be built. Thank God. It is planned and written in the paper to build some other hydropower plants in the City of Zagreb and that would be very good, but I think it is more like this for daily needs than for serious access to it. I'm just saying, watch out, last year, so in 2004, 2003, the rise in energy consumption was 3.6%. It's to be expected that this growth is growing even more. The standard of people growth, today everyone wants to have a climate so today you have a situation in Dalmatia that you have equal consumption and in winter and in summer everyone warms up on electricity, everyone cools on electricity in summer. We need to be aware of this and this growth will be bigger and bigger, and there we can get into the gable even though we have solved it with Slovenians regarding the Krska nuclear power plant, something with Bosnia about their obligations to us, with Serbia nothing, there we can get into trouble if we have a dry year so that God doesn't give us power shortages and that we don't come into those situations to be occasional exclusions. The worse the gas situation, the worse. This is what we have every year to believe that this year, at 12 and 1 month, we will have the exclusion of some major consumers even though this relationship, if we do not effectively approach this problem, we will have a growing problem. In fact, gas as heat energy is the cheapest fuel, people are aware of it more and more and more using it. We're talking about gasification of the Adriatic, so from Rijeka to Dalmatia with the construction of a possibly larger energy facility, but then we need to secure a large amount of gas. From where I'm not so sure that's what I'm thinking too much about. Here, I wouldn't talk any further about this report, I'd like to thank Mr. Clapa I wish him a long life, and the Council a light death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44542	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44543	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I must point out that it is a very professional and quality report. During 2004, the Council carried out its activities in accordance with the provisions of the Law, a set of energy laws adopted in 2001. Unfortunately or fortunately these laws have been amended in half and late 2004, the Council has completed its work and will continue behind it by the Croatian Energy Reference Agency, which we certainly want to build on the experiences of the Council and everything that the Council has carried out during these 4 years and 4 years by fulfilling its obligations under the law. In addition, last year the Council monitored the process of developing a renewable energy market in the European Union, and in this report gave a very useful account of which I will try to explain a little more in my further presentation. Therefore, by carrying out its obligations under the powers of the Council, the Council points out that it has specifically worked to issue permits to carry out energy activities, both electricity, gas, oil and oil derivatives and heat, and that it is up to 31. 12. In 2004, 183 permits were issued, which is very important to point out that almost this entire energy part had settled its business issues in energy activity. The second, very important part of the activities carried out by the Council during 2004, is the control of the regulation of energy price activities, with the Council giving its opinion to the Government on the proposal for tariff systems, as well as the supervision of the application of tariff systems of electricity, gas energy and tariffs for the use of the pipeline. It is very interesting to point out the Council’s assessment of the tariff system for energy activities performed as a public service, the Council found that electricity prices are covered by one tariff, in fact for high voltage, medium voltage or low voltage, which, under the laws or regulations of sublaws which will have to be adopted under these laws, is not in conformity with the law. During 2005, a special tariff system will have to be established for each of these activities and, in cooperation with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, it will have to be given the right of validity in order to apply it in practice. What encourages the Council to indeed act in accordance with the provisions of the gas distributor law, as regards transport, etc., where it gave its negative opinion because our oil and gas industry INA did not comply with its tariff rule during 2004 with its activities or in accordance with the law. In gas, we have to say the following according to what the Council points out, that last year the gas distribution law was changed, that it is no longer a municipal activity but that it is an energy activity and that there is a very big problem that will need to be solved during 2005 and in the coming years. A new tariff system must be created because we have 36 distributors plus INAs with their transport system, all of this must be arranged in a completely different way. Unlike electricity distributors, we can determine for gas distributors that it is a market for privileged customers already open almost 50% because there is such a possibility because we have gas supply from our national sources in Pannonia and the Adriatic, but at the same time we are connected to a large gas system that comes through Slovenia to the Republic of Croatia. The Council exercises control over the war of the company Croatian independent system and market operator d.o.o. and established that the company does not carry out its task in accordance with the law independently and objectively and that it has not contributed to the organisation of the electricity market or the implementation of the law. It was also the basis that we changed the Electricity Market Act and, of course, it would have to change. In fact, this company was operating in the form of HEP, and in some ways it was even to understand that in its business it was under the pressure of our large distributor and electricity producer, but the new law regulated this on these grounds, and we hope that these issues in carrying out these activities will also be addressed in a quality way. What I want to point out is a review of the council on energy markets in Europe. One of the most obvious examples is that the Central European countries completed the opening of the electricity market during 2004, that privileged customers and other many customers received a lower price, but during the year all that price actually returned to the level that it had been before. Of course, the cause of that is everything that's been going on with the oil. In gas only, of course, England, Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands and gas and electricity have an open market to the end. In a way, he'd end it. The Council said that all these issues should be resolved between 2006 and 2008, in fact by the seventh month in 2008, and we will have to create in our country conditions for our energy systems to be included in the European energy system and to operate under those conditions as agreed in the European Union. I would conclude in the end, Mr. President, that it is indeed a quality report with reviews of where and how we should regulate this issue in our country that the council has carried out its tasks that have arisen from the law very well. In addition, a financial report was submitted by the government and in any case I will be one of the representatives who will support this report when it is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44544	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44545	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues! The report stresses that in 2004, the energy system and the energy market in the region marked the efforts of almost all Member States, as well as candidates for joining the European Union, to meet the standards and forms of the organisation of the electricity sector and the markets as quickly as possible and more successfully as possible, in line with the European Union guidelines. Therefore, it has been rapidly working to adapt energy legislation and the regulatory framework for energy activities, to open the energy market and to prepare them for integration into the internal market of the European Union. The Energy Regulatory Council has followed all these processes in relation to regional processes as a constructive participant and co-worker of the competent ministry. The report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations that are important for the development of the energy market for public services in 2004 was prepared at a time when amendments and additions to the new laws in the energy legislation package came into effect in December 2004. The new legislative framework has also brought important changes to the framework and content in the energy regulation segment in Croatia. According to the new Law on Energy Regulatory Activities of December 2004, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is set up as a legal successor to the Board of Regulators for Regulation. This report, which is before us, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as the work itself, can be a useful basis and recommendations for successful organisation and start of work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. It is stressed that the role of the new regulatory agency will be to adjust the methodology for determining the amount of the tariff items above that energy activities will then be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The cost of the organisation of electricity markets will also be covered by the compensation established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In view of all the above, in 2005, prior to the regulation of electricity prices, the adoption of the tariff systems in question is in line with the new legal provisions as well as the compensation for the organisation of the electricity market. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Control of the tariff system in the natural gas sector. Since no changes were adopted by the end of 2004 and the addition of the tariff system by the Board of Regulators rejected the possibility of further natural gas collection in the third and fourth quarter of 2004 as well as in the first quarter of 2005. In those quarters, natural gas sales price was held at 1.07 kuna per meter cubic. Factors which have a significant impact on the supply price of natural gas and which are publicly published and can therefore be analysed in this report are the price of gas oil, the price of lush oil... , the price of lush oil with 3.5% sulphur, the average US dollar rate according to the Croatian kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs! The report shows the movement of all of the above factors in the period 2003-2004. I quote, if the front picture connects to the formula for calculating the natural gas supply price, it is seen that the decline in the US dollar rate from 20% from 1.1.2003 to 31.12.2004 affects the import price as well as the price of natural gas from domestic production. As a result, there is no increase in the price, supply price of gas. ... Gas oil rocks that follow the trend in the trend in raw oil prices at the same time increased by 40%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can be read further that during the control of the application of the tariff system for the transport of gas to gas suppliers and privileged gas customers. The Board of Regulators has seen a series of indetermination and uncertainty in the provisions of the transport tariff system. Therefore, during 2005, a proposal for a methodology for the calculation of the tariff for the transport of natural gas should be drawn up to remove the observed deficiencies of the applicable tariff system in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. From the consumer protection chapter, surely the most interesting for the wider audience in which the council had the largest number of complaints from end customers regarding the distribution of electricity or the quality of the service access to the distribution network and the possibility of access to the distribution and network of 13 complaints. In a significantly smaller number, the Regulatory Council received complaints from final customers regarding gas distribution, two objections. It is visible, and the Regulatory Council has shown that consumers in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in other countries, have the most problems and objections to the exercise of their rights in relation to energy entities carrying out monopoly activities in connection with electricity, heat and gas. Energy entities delivered to the Council for the Regulation of the Consumer Advertising Commission for 2004. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on data that energy entities are required to deliver to the Regulatory Council. It is evident that the maximum number of objections to all activities relates to the calculation of consumption, followed by complaints to the quality of services and connections. It is important to stress that the introduction of energy regulation has been driven by an active consumer protection policy, which has enabled the proper functioning of the management market to be ensured. In addition to establishing and communicating between different market participants with a view to preventing possible disputes. I would also like to look back, especially on the part concerning the Law on Production, Distribution, the supply of thermal energy that was in the Croatian Parliament during the second half of 2004 for the first reading. During March of this year we held a debate and adopted the Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy and thus created a legal framework for the systematic and organised business and functioning of the heat sector in Croatia. It is particularly important that the new Law encourages measurement and... the use of energy and allows users to control their own heat consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entry into force of the Law so far excludes the current activity of heat supply from the competence of the legislation on the municipal economy. The report stresses that the Law on production, distribution and supply of thermal energy regulates the activity of heat industry in a systematic and complete manner. Among other issues relating to the conditions and methods of carrying out energy activities of production, distribution and supply of electricity. Rights and obligations of entities carrying out the activities in question. The rights and obligations of customers of thermal energy. Ensuring the means to carry out these activities, as well as the financing and construction of facilities for the production, distribution and supply of heat. The report also stresses that the most significant sub-legislative acts are general conditions for the supply of heat energy and the tariff system for services to energy activities, production, distribution and heat supply. At the end of the respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to stress that, by quoting the report by the new Energy Regulation Act, instead of the Energy Regulatory Council, HERA as its legal successor as the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent and non-profit public institution, will be independent in taking all organisational and other measures necessary for the smooth performance of the functions of fulfilling the law of certain obligations. In relation to the Regulatory Council, the obligations under the Agency's competence are significantly changed, its organisational governance structure and a significantly different relationship between the Agency and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is established. The Agency’s professional work and tasks will be carried out by the Agency’s staff. In short, there are very important changes in the segment of energy regulation in the Republic of Croatia, but these obligations and responsibilities in a contained and procedural sense require further and detailed consideration in which experience gained knowledge of the current Regulatory Council can be of great benefit to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is an exhaustive report, we can commend, that this House is aware of the events in Croatia and the countries in Europe and should be positively assessed by this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44546	Thank you very much. Final review of the President of the Council, Mr Clepo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44547	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I, the distinguished gentlemen, am on behalf of the Board of Regulators, of the former Energy Regulatory Council, thank you most sincerely on my own behalf. I would hardly be more precise than these comments and the things that are said, which are important, which are the points and which this High and esteemed House needs to hear from me. But on the contrary, let me point out, or I only say two things, if I exception this to thank you for your long-lived desire, it is certainly a nice and thank-you for fulfilling the obligations of the former Council for regulating energy activities with the hope that HERA will also continue to do the same. I would just like to point out to you about the regional market, meaning my personal assessment, and I am sure all institutions in the Republic of Croatia are also rated that this is one area that is experiencing terrible, rapid and dynamic development. So every second lost in that segment definitely Croatia and its companies, its industry, I don't mean just energy sector companies putting into a second-rate, third-rate position, so we don't have the right, regardless of I'm not going to go into any political grades, I'm just going to say what's going on in the background, the organisation and Croatia signed all those acts and accepted, so I can't make a mistake in any of that, we definitely have to put these things first and a big, big political accent. One more thing I want to show and we gave the Government of the Republic of Croatia opinions, all the tariff systems adopted by the body in 2002, and they were unfortunately and they showed up all this later, so it's not the Council that wanted to stop the INU in the supply and price of the supply of gas, but the Law and the tariff system prescribed us as a council, I didn't and I didn't want to violate the laws and regulations of the tariff system, and I never intend to do it in this way in my life. So that's one problem, so a document and a legal basis. The second question is, what, I'm sorry, I don't know who pointed out, the problem of distribution and the solution of the tariff system on the side of distribution. Allowing to pour prices into distributors who have not settled the question of relations through municipal units, the municipal administration today has settled it, today the Law on the Communist Economy has changed it, would definitely have gotten into the huge problems of gas distributors with a potential, labour blockade, not to say by default for a number of distributors in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when the system is arranged, it must be arranged from everyone, from the beginning to the end, in order for the system to function. Here again on behalf of the Council, the former Energy Regulatory Council, and on my behalf, I thank you. Mr. President, gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44548	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and on observations that are important for the development of the energy market and public services in 2004. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and on observations that are relevant for the development of the energy market and public services in 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 82 votes for, unanimously adopted, that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44551	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. A few first of all technical notes. At the very beginning this report consists of two parts, both of which you have received more spring, one is the text of the report itself and the other is one booklet which detailed the results of Croatian athletes and athletes during 2004. What is the Croatian Olympic Committee? In two sentences, this is the highest, according to the legal definition, not the government's sports organisation in Croatia, which is based on the Olympic Charter of the International Olympic Committee, the Statute and the Croatian laws. It consists of 47 of 35 alliances of national Olympic sports, 25 alliances of neo-Olympic sports, 21 county sports alliances and alliances of the city of Zagreb, and a club of Croatian Olympics. The highest body of the Croatian Olympic Committee is the Assembly. The assembly elects a direct council, president and four vice presidents. According to the International Olympic Charter, none of the above must receive any cash compensation or any of them in Croatia receive it. Only the report consists of two parts; resulting and financial. In the resulting part, it should be claimed that in 2004 it was the most successful year of Croatian sport at all. This was the most contributed by the results at the Olympic Games in Athens where 5 medals were won more than the last two summer Olympics combined. All in all during 2004, our athletes and athletes in various sports won almost 200 and 193 medals, respectively. Of which 47 gold, 67 silver and 79 bronze plus also so many seats from 4th to 7th place, all supports this statement and the finding that it was the most successful year of Croatian sports since the independence of the Croatian state. As for the financial part, you can see from the financial report and from the table that suggests that in 2004 it can also be described as a very good year, and this is based on the fact that the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is funded from 3 sources. This is: the budget in a narrow sense, they are a share in the profit from gambling and these are their own revenues from the Olympic Committee that it has achieved revenue growth in 4.16% above the plan. That the expenditures were 2.4% lower. If the Olympic Committee were an organisation that earned profits, then b and it gained profits in 2004 than it did and could not show the gain of excess income on expenditures was used to additionally finance national sports alliances. So that means that national sports alliances received more funding in 2004, they could finance more sports programmes than was originally planned. On the side of the revenue when we look at them, it should be argued that for years in a narrow sense, the budget has the same statement to the Croatian Olympic Committee or Croatian sport as a whole because the Olympic Committee is only a transfer of funds towards national sports alliances from which all international performances by all Croatian athletes and athletes are financed. So if we were to look at it separately from the rest, then we would have to argue, and this is data from both our Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which was also discussed by the board of this High House for Sport and Youth, that the allocations for sport are lagging both in real and absolute terms and in real and absolute terms both towards the GDP and towards the level of the budget each year, which is unfortunately the only bad thing in the whole story. Which, unfortunately, brings Croatia to the last place in all transition countries when watching the separation for sport, both per capita and share, isolating for sport in the gross domestic product. And the share, the separation for sport in the central state budget. But despite that, I said all the programs were funded. This has also contributed greatly to the growth of its own income of 12%, which means that the 2004 marketing of the Croatian Olympic Committee was very active, and in fact it has led to this growth in revenue as a whole. I have to say two great things that happened last year in 2004. First, both were due to the Croatian government. The first is the financing of the Olympic Games in Athens. The Croatian government has funded the performance as a whole. All set. And no doubt that was shown on the results as well. And secondly, the Ministry of Finance's insistence to deal with the long-term problem of scholarships of athletes through the tax system is now resolved in an extremely satisfactory way and will certainly help in the future both in terms of financial, financial disciplines in these sports organisations and in favour of athletes because there is a significant increase in the non-taxable part of the income of athletes or their scholarships. Here's the lady and gentlemen. It's in the shortest summary of what's in the report. I hope you'll add your thoughts to this. Finally, I must thank the Committee on Sports and Youth, who on several occasions discussed our problem and showed a great degree of understanding and support at the last session in Split, and this leads to the thought that in 2005 it will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44552	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44553	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my congratulations to the athletes once again, and above all to our Olympics on the truly impressive results achieved in 2004. Despite the fact that funding for the implementation of the sport programme during the year is permanent and chronically insufficient. It is also commendable that all debts and commitments from past periods have been paid and that the Croatian Olympic Committee can plan future work without the burden of the past. Although budget allocations in the past year were significantly higher than otherwise in view of the fact that the Olympic years were ever less and not even with an additional 20 million kunas, as we had seen earlier and heard from Mr. President from the overall budget mass each year, they did not reach that fantastic 1 change of budget from 2000 to 2000, so we continued to start European countries on their own for sport either from the state budget or from the gambling games. I hope that the new Sport Act of that relationship will fix especially in the part relating to tax relief in the separation of income funds or obtaining economic operators and that we will still welcome this law in the parliamentary procedure in this term. However, I also have to refer to this report a few critical notes that I spoke about last year when we discussed the 2003 report, but which apparently did not come across fertile soil, so some shortcomings are repeated this time. By reading this report, it can be concluded that the Croatian Olympic Committee is working on a whole series of programmes and projects, but they cannot read as far as the planning and implementation of some of these programmes has been achieved. So I really appeal to you, Mr. Matesha, that next year, with a few sentences, you inform us more and more about the achievement of these programs so that not only do we work but also get information about what was done? And now I'd like to refer to some specific chapters of the report. In 2003, the National Sports Alliance Committee discussed a new regulation on the categorization of athletes with various aspects of the individual programme, whatever that means. As well as the report on the preparation of the new sport law. They're exactly the same topics in 2004. The only difference is that one session was held instead of three sessions, but two national sports alliances were held. It is strange that last year, only the basics of the categorization rule were discussed when the topic was so long current. This report does not show the results, decisions and conclusions of these discussions. How far in their implementation and the deadlines of final execution have been set. For the regulation on categorization as well as criteria for sports categories, it says that they should be finished by half this year, but as far as I know, even though the job is not finished by the end of September. I hope he doesn't live to see the Odysseus of the Sports Act. As for special care for young people based on individual programmes, athletes from personnel teams, mostly Olympic sports, are evident. We in the SDP think that we should do much more to athletes with less exposed and marketing less attractive sports in a way that forms of instruction and questionnaires for young athletes are directed to the national alliances, with a warrant to make mandatory, underlining this must give their proposals, because there are cases where such investment in young people is simply ignored, especially in alliances where only one person is employed who is complicated with regular work writing and reporting and reports about the execution of a little program there from, say, Babina Grade. The rules for funding an individual youth programme are discriminatory given the categorization of sports, and they lead to that someone from the lower category, despite the results, will never come in turn for funds from special care, because the category of his sport is a limiting factor, and even when he achieves much better results than athletes from a more ranked sport, and it is known that these sports have very limited assets and depend heavily on the investment of parents. Well, I call on the Croatian Olympic Committee to at least make no difference with these programmes in certain sports, but to base the support on achieving the results of a young athlete or athlete. The basis for this call stems from the material that speaks of financing public needs in sport where among other things it is said that the Croatian Olympic Committee, I quote: "The care of the even development of all sports, creates equal funding rules for all its members, and reduces market imperfections and the privileges of market sports.", finished quote. After discussing this report on families, on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Mr Chop, the Secretary-General of the Croatian Olympic Committee, provided me with this opportunity to thank him again. I'd like to look back on a few words and the status issues of athletes. I still have a grudge against the slowness and civility of the administrative apparatus on the Croatian Olympic Committee. Mr. Mateša, I have shown you the solution to the category I have been waiting for for 2 years and several months, and the small throat is Mrs. Dragica Stjepanović's office. This problem is also contributed by the poor connection of the information system within the Croatian Olympic Committee or by insufficient information literacy of officials. While some resources and efforts have been devoted to this problem, as discussed in the section on information, it is obvious that more needs to be done to make the administration more effective. Finally, the funds envisaged for this purpose itself have been spent more than twice as much as anticipated. The example of non-connection and insufficient efficiency is that the results of the performance of the athletes of individual alliances, which must be delivered in several places within the Croatian Olympic Committee, instead of being archived in the database from where the official can draw them, if necessary, whenever the occasion arises. So, in particular, they should be delivered to an expert associate in sports programmes, Mr Tomislav Saban, and especially mentioned to Mrs Stjepanović for a solution on categorisation. I also believe that category data, as well as solutions, should be updated regularly. The simplest solution would be, especially when it comes to the team's results that all team members' solutions are issued at once if a athlete has a category that stands out for him next year, and this year has achieved a result that gives him the right to extend the category to the next 4 years. But he does not get a solution, nor does his status register as newly acquired so that on the website of the Croatian Olympic Committee, there is no record anywhere else that this athlete has that category up to the time limit he should really belong to. A number of activities that took place through the Office for Local Sport are listed in the section relating to local sport, but we also lack concrete results, as well as further plans stemming from current activities. It would also be a figure in which the design phase of the sports building register is expected to be finalised. I would refer to a few words and marketing activities, as well as training and professional training of sports personnel. I have to return to the formerly prominent task of the Croatian Olympic Committee on Equal Development and Treatment of All Members. In fact, the report shows that much has been done on this plan, and this is commendable, but these activities and resources have been mainly targeted at so-called. Big sports. That's why I think a long-term programme should be developed to determine sports by stages, or annually, above all so-called. small sports, which are generally poor and financial and humane and which the Croatian Olympic Committee would assist in the education of professional staff, as well as financially within the limits of opportunities through marketing programmes in the breakthrough of these sports into the media, especially those visually, in a way that in order to help in these activities comes at least every 4 years. Thus, the Croatian Olympic Committee would have a better insight into the work and functioning of certain sports and sports alliances, and these alliances would achieve better opportunities for better quality work. As regards the financial part of the report, I would like to commend the efforts and results achieved by management and professional services in the implementation of the marketing activities programme which have also resulted in significant extra-financial resources that have enabled the implementation of the programme in the most part of the plan of all sports alliances, as well as the backlogs of earlier periods, but I warn that due to the negative findings of the State Audit in 2002 and 2003, their opinion must be respected in order to obtain transparency and quality of the report. Before the end, I want to say something that is not part of this specific report, but it is a real picture of the situation in our sport, which also concerns the Croatian Olympic Committee. It is known that there is a government decision on the criteria for awarding a prize for top sports achievements, but unfortunately, only for privileged and elected, or only for Olympic sports. Also, the "Franjo Bucar" National Sports Award Committee exclusively includes people from Olympic sports. What I mean is, I'm going to illustrate it with a concrete example. Among the 128 winners of this award, there is not a single bowler, although it is known that bowling on the record of the Croatian Olympic Committee for several years was the most successful sport in Croatia, that we have had a number of world records, which team, which are individual, that even now we have current world records in male and female competition, as well as current world champions in 3 disciplines. The Croatian women's and men's team achieved really great successes at the World Cup in early June this year. Namely, out of 5 possible medals were won 4, of which 1 gold and 3 bronze, and our member Željka Orehovec broke a single world record, and the men's medal team escaped in the last shots and won 4 seats. From the government to this day, no card arrived, your reception on the Croatian Olympic Committee was made about 2 months ago, without media presence, and President Mesic only twenty days ago accompanied by one small icon and two sentences in the newspaper. Of course, television pictures aren't random. I won't even mention any cash prizes, because of course they're gone. I wonder if small sports are also children of this country and society or just pastors and extra burden. So I finally appeal to you, Mr. Matesha, to help with your authority to equalise the recognition of the results of athletes of all sports in moral and material form and for all positive achievements in 2004. The SDP club will support this report, and I also expect you to appreciate these remarks in terms of improving the quality of future work of the Croatian Olympic Committee and Croatian sport in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44554	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44555	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Matesha, colleagues and colleagues. At this point, there is also a dilemma about how to discuss this document. How to discuss at the moment of a bipolar emotional situation after last week marked by major sports events, namely the victory of the Croatian tennis team at the Davis Cup semifinal and the defeat of basketball players in Belgrade at the European Championship, whether through the prism of tennis and approval or basketball and criticism. Today, of course, the word is more about tennis and the defeated is almost nothing. Something is written and analyzed by sports journalists, laundered in a way of trial, mentioned by court decisions, and in most cases they cross the right name, injustice. In order for this injustice to be partially compensated, we suggest that Mr. Matesha help at least part of those boys who have been training all summer, be separated from the family, and eventually make them cry, receive them at the highest level together, maybe in agreement and with the state summit as if they won the medal and we say thank you, we, we, we couldn't do better because they didn't give you. In this document bearing the title and programme report under point 1.2.2. on the seminar in the field of health care of athletes and point 3.2.2. The 2004 Athens Olympics under medical staff, I did not notice that those involved in the medical work were included. Why do we mention them from the Croatian Democratic Community club? Since two years ago, this specialization was added for the first time in the Republic of Croatia and specialization in sports medicine. We think that, in the future compositions of delegations, preventive examinations of athletes and seminars, we should rightly be jobmakers of this profile. We are faced with the fact that from four or five days ago it has been 12 years since the full recognition of the Croatian Olympic Committee by the Assembly of the International Olympic Committee. You said it would be useful to add some of your thoughts on this text to supplement it. Well, sometimes unresolved issues and promises and misunderstandings have taken up a tremendous amount of time and energy that may have been used in much better and more organised youth growth, stimulating young and talented athletes through national alliances, establishing motor skills testing camps and psychological integrity of talented athletes, timely knowledge, recognition and stimulation of such ones. What we call a systematic solution in the people, it seems to me that this programme report does not, in fact we are all waiting together for the new Sport Act, and while we are waiting for it, there are cases that are partly or entirely breaking through the Croatian Olympic Committee. Because here it is, this September 2005 the case of Draganja and the general consternation in thinking that he could swim for another country, and a year ago, in November 2004, the case of Blanka Vlasic who has no winter in Split where to train. The problem has not been solved yet, and from the HOO it has come to me to quote: "not allowed and will not remain indifferent to the athletic situation in Split". For information, the case has not been solved yet, there is a sign of resolution but it has not been solved. Before that, let me remind you, these are not isolated cases. There was a case in 2001. Ergotić and the failure and return of the gold medal to the winning Mediterranean games due to the findings of lidocaine in urine and error, in fact, which has not been reported because this medicine is allowed, but has not been reported in the appropriate form. So it was the case of Lackovic in 2002, correspondence in public ballots between the Croatian Handball Union and the Olympic Committee. The Strahi case, etc. whether it was doping, whether the appropriate amount of doping is equal to urine and blood, etc. etc. Of course, not to mention the biggest one that hurts us all, it hurts us at the Croatian Democratic Community club, it hurts every citizen of this country, the failure, the self-will of the officials who allowed the gifted swimmer from Vukovar Mirna Jukic to now live in Austria and win medals for her new country. The Croatian Olympic Committee sent messages to the public that it would return, however... In the end, Croatia, we think, needs an Institute of Sports to control athletes and apply all scientific achievements that would help athletes in life, nutrition, training and competition. And we wish we could read through that sponsorship contract with the Volkswagen company that instead of the expensive Volkswagen Feton, three vans were bought, three vans that would mean a lot to small sports associations to transport perhaps the youngest for the competition. And we would love to see that promise made at the beginning of this year, a promise to gold athletes, gold handball players and Janica Kostelic about a worthy marking of the name in the City of Zagreb, their names and we are still waiting for that promise. Of course, in the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we congratulate all those athletes on last year's results, especially medal winners on all those games where they performed and defended national colors with dignity. In the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we also take note of this report and expect the HOO, which is at the top of the Croatian sports pyramid, to be more aware and to base the initiator and the contractor, and the mistakes that are being stolen and in the financial reports on the findings of the State Audit, and the dissatisfaction will disappear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44556	Thank you. On behalf of the Cuba HNS-PGS esteemed representative Srecko Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44557	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. On the basis of the Programme Report and the Financial Report, I would like to highlight a few things. In 2004, it was the year in which the results of Croatian athletes peaked at the summer Olympic Games. We won 5 medals, 1 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze. According to results and medals, the Olympic Games are the most successful in the history of Croatia's participation in them. Previously on the Winter Olympics held in Salt Lake City, we won 4 medals, 3 gold and 1 silver. Recently in Almer, Spain at 15. We won 26 medals in the Mediterranean Games. From all this data, it is easy to conclude how important sport is a factor for the whole country, how many Croatian athletes contribute not only to their personal affirmation but also to Croatia's affirmation throughout the world. Sport is being held and re-proved as the best ambassador of the Croatian state in the world. Another important fact to point out is that there was a change in the Croatian Olympic Committee itself in 2004. A new council has been elected, the new-old president who has certainly contributed to better quality relations within the Croatian Olympic Committee itself. Despite still some difficulties, we believe that there is a visible shift in the business of the Croatian Olympic Committee for better compared to previous years. The financial report submitted shows that there was an increase in revenue in 2004 at the rate of its own income. It is important to note that there has been a major engagement in marketing activity, i.e. that the announcements of the head of the HO have begun to be made about the necessity of the planned promotion of both the HO and Croatian sport as a whole. Total expenditure in 2004 was reduced in relation to the plan, and that the programmes of the National Sports Alliance were achieved with a very high index. So, the savings were made, but not on the athlete's stick and sports programs. As regards the planned and achieved funds in 2004 the report can certainly get a good assessment by programme groups. The report shows that in 2004, relatively small funds were spent to inform the HO in comparison to the plan, but despite this fact, we support the efforts of the head of the Croatian Olympic Committee to inform the entire system because it is necessary, but also the need for a modern way of doing business. I would like to point out that the HNS-PGS Club supports this report with the desire for the Croatian Olympic Committee to continue with quality work in the future. The way he's been going since there's been quality personnel changes in the last year. I support this report for the reasons that it is very easy to see that the new leadership of the Croatian Olympic Committee wants in one completely different way than it has ever been to establish the financing of Croatian sport, i.e. it seeks to make clear and unequivocal criteria equal for all. Until recently, we witnessed a non-transparent way of working on funding without clearly certain rules and under strange lines of decision. In a way that sets out fully clear criteria and transparent way of deciding the Croatian Olympic Committee has our full support. We hope that Croatian athletes will, with great and quality support from the HO, as well as from the Croatian state in 2005/2006. a year to achieve significant results. In front of us is the Winter Olympics for just over 4 months and quality monitoring by HO is necessary to maintain high levels and quality results. We hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to recognise the importance of sport and the high quality achieved again, and we propose that the projections of the future budget provide for an increase in the resources allocated from the state budget from the Croatian Olympic Committee. Here I especially invite my colleague from the HDZ Club to engage in this because it is up to them to do so. It would also be good to increase the funds that are allocated to sports from the games to the happiness of Croatia's lottery. After all, in his work over the last year, HO has proved that it deserves even more state support. We are also convinced that in the future, the HO will make even more involved in creating its own income through enhanced marketing activities and even greater savings within the HO itself, but not at the sharp quality of work and not at the sportsman's stick. The Croatian Olympic Committee has so far engaged very actively in drawing up a final proposal for a new Sport Act that cannot come before representatives of the Croatian Parliament despite the ministers' announcements. For the sake of Croatian sport and relations in it, we hope that this law will finally see the light of day. We also hope that the Resort Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will... The construction of new school facilities also respects the suggestions of athletes and the Croatian Olympic Committee, i.e. the fact that no school facility can be built without a sports hall, or playground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Olympic Committee's 2004 Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee supports the above mentioned Club of HNS-PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44558	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to a 10-minute debate. Dear Representative Leko. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44559	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44560	Thank you very much, giving up the debate. Dear Representative Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, and this year I will look really briefly at the report on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, now for 2004, which really contains a brief picture of the implementation of the programme in 2004. It is very important, as stated in this Report, that the Office of National Sports Alliances has launched amendments and additions to the Regulation on categorisation. Because in 2004, the number of solutions issued on categorisation was increased as reported in the Report, so it would be good to see the reasons for the increase in the figure. Whether it's a matter of quality or the rights that athletes make through categorization. Of course, with these problems in sport it is important to point out that we heard this today from almost all the participants in the debate, the adoption of a new Sport Act that is in preparation and I hope that it will really arrive soon, I believe, in our benches. A special place in this Report refers certainly to the sport of young people. I mean, what's going on here is the subtitle "Individual Special Care Program for Youth". Although it is not directly related to the Croatian Olympic Committee, I must remind myself that we are all in favour of creating the best conditions for young people to practice sports. So let us also remind ourselves of the recent discussions on amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education, which has even established the obligation of schools to allow regular students who are athletes in the competition categories to participate in sports competitions and sports preparations at national level, which is very important for participation of young people in sports. It is important and very commendable that athletes are provided with accommodations in the dormitory, and we heard today and the presentations of you, Mr. President, that they are also provided for scholarships, which is truly commendable. As in last year's report, it is indeed necessary to commend again the activities of the Council of Sports for Children and Youth and the programme of promoting the idea of Olympicism between children and young people in the territory of the entire Republic. Because this maintenance is now the third Olympics and the Olympic children's kindergarten festival, and every year the number of cities in which this small, let's call it the Olympics. This year, as many as 22 cities were involved, i.e. last year, whose report we are talking about. And over 8,000 children, I think there really was a big event for children in kindergartens and our youngsters who had in May, we could say our Olympics, in front of that big Olympics. Congratulations and all athletes who achieved very valuable results in 2004, and also praise this brochure of yours The Great Days of Croatian Sports, which shows really all the significant results of our athletes. A significant area in this report, which I spoke about in the 2003 debate, is local sport. The report states that the Office for Local Sport co-finances a number of projects and programmes at the level of county, towns and municipalities. Unfortunately, only 16 requests have arrived, according to the report, there are also a number of objective reasons why the local level sport's programme activities have not fully surfaced, I think the Croatian Olympic Committee should really work here to include itself in solving the problem at local level. It would be good to extend and improve the projects that have been co-financed and the activities of the office and those carried out by these activities. Certainly, 710 thousand kuna in 2004 should be provided with an increase in the hope that the 2005 report will be much better. The Olympic program was in the financial plan of the central event last year, the planned funds of 20 thousand kunas, not all seen but the results of our athletes were really high-end. I would like to support the work of the Croatian Olympic Academy and should certainly insist on training and training candidates for the needs of sports and continue training at local level because this assistance is very welcome to us in the local environments. As regards the financial report, it can be determined that the funds were increased by 4.16% compared to the plan in 2004 but the expenditure was lower by 3.11%) than planned. It is very important that this report states that indeed now all debts from the previous period of the Croatian Olympic Committee have returned, so it is commendable for the Olympic Committee in this composition. Isolates for sport aren't great, we've heard of them all, they're important but I think the pawning of all of you should open up the best conditions for sports, and that means providing even bigger financial resources. In the previous 2003 report, I spoke in my debate on the need to develop standards for the construction of sports facilities and playgrounds, this Report again mentions the necessary development of this Regulation and I hope that we will finally have this rule by the next report because it is a prerequisite that the conditions of sport in all environments are uniform. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44562	Thank you. We're done talking about this. Mr. Zlatko Mateša on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44563	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to you for the contribution of this debate, allow me to refer with just a few words to some of the things that have been presented in the discussions of clubs and individuals. To get a clear picture of both the position of the Croatian Olympic Committee and its competences and some of these suggestions that were given during the debate. The regulation on the categorization of which Mrs. Perman spoke well is the basic document, on which a whole series of rights are exercised under other laws of athletes and athletes. We predict he is now at debate in national alliances, every national sports alliance can make its remarks and we predict that he will be adopted by the end of this year to be followed in 2006 by the new Olympic cycle. Individual youth care programs, we decided to even step up. At the Council meeting scheduled for the 8th of this month, a new rule and a new list will be adopted, you who have carefully followed some other things about sports have seen one new project of the Croatian lottery and the Olympic Committee The Olympic Lucky Revenue is exclusively intended to educate young athletes, so that this individual programme will be much wider than it has been so far. As for local sports and mostly sports records, it's not the Olympic Committee's job. The registration of sports facilities is the job of the owner of sports facilities, which are cities and units of local self-government. As far as education is concerned, you can see that we have trained 415 people through the Olympic Academy for various sports functions. Functions that, as the academy performs on the basis of the permit of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, are entered in the workbook, from ski instructors, tennis, coaches and the like, they have very much their importance for the dissemination of coaching bases and bases in sport. What's bad is the real position is the conditionality of certain sports that we sometimes call Colloquial small sports, and by the number of medals won, are equal to those of others, in the media. By privatising the media system, there was a narrowing interest in these sports, we had to react to this in a way that, for example, with sports news, we went to a one-week lease to present the successes of these small sports, whose interest cannot be commercially revived in regular production. It is the same with Croatian TV that we have excellent relations with, which we really need to thank, have an understanding of such small sports and we are ready to even co-finance transmissions because it is promotional, some small conditional sports and on television. As for what a distinguished colleague from the Croatian Democratic Community spoke about, first of all, basketball. Yesterday we had a meeting with the headship of the Croatian Basketball Union on the measures and procedures we will take together to support Croatia's basketball species, both by reacting to this injustice and by eventually reaching so-called. Invitations or a wild card for the World Cup. The fact that I do not elaborate means a whole series of activities both of the Olympic Committee and of the Croatian basketball alliance towards the global FIBI in order to achieve this. The idea of a reception is excellent, and it would be very good to bring everyone together at such a reception. Mr. Draganja's problem is a specific problem. We sort of went beyond our jurisdiction to try to find a sponsor for Mr. Draganj, we try and, and I think we're going to get results even though I underline it's not our jurisdiction but we have a moral obligation to help our top Olympic swimmer. There is a little problem that Duje is not in Croatia, but I hope that we can solve it, that there will be no problem. As for Miss Vlasic, this may be the right place to appeal to the city of Split, to the City of Split to finance the hall of Miss Vlasic where she can train, which is the only one in Split at her disposal. We welcome the idea of the Institute of Sports, it would be good if he formed himself, there are a lot of people who are capable, have the right knowledge to work in it. They were mentioned, the contract was mentioned between the Croatian Olympic Committee and Volkswagen, which is the official carrier, or official vehicle of the Beijing Olympics. Unfortunately, I have to say that your findings were not correct. There are two vans that use national alliances that don't have vehicles. They regularly use them every weekend as they need them and there is an additional possibility under that contract that alliances can buy vehicles, vans, and many of them, with very significant discounts and payments. Therefore, I must say that the van of the vehicle exists and is being used. What kind of vehicles the sponsor gives depends solely on him. So we're not even looking for anything we should get. We get what they send us and they change it whenever they feel the need to change it. As for the marking of the importance of our athletes, we were the bearers of the initiative to declare Janica Kostelic an honorary citizen of the City of Zagreb and to be given the street. In the first one, we didn't make it. In the second one, we didn't make it. I guess City headship and the City of Zagreb Assembly will consider this second part and we will all be satisfied about it. The last problem, and I'm going to end up with this, which I really agree with, and it's really making us huge problems, that's what you Madam MPs said about standardizing building objects. We'd save a lot of money if we had standardized sports facilities. Then we would avoid all those traps that happen to us about the construction of sports facilities that each object for itself, designed differently, and I know that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports together with the architectural faculty is working on one such regulation on the standardisation of sports facilities. I hope that Minister Primorac will succeed and that we will have it in the beginning of next year. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44564	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Third, Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2004. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2004 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 78 votes for and 1 abstentions were accepted by the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44567	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! According to our knowledge, the Government of the Republic made a decision on 2 June 2005 authorising the Ministry of Agriculture to open negotiations on possible changes to the SAA concerning the introduction of sugar export quotas into the European Union. Taking into account the fact that total exports of sugar to the European Union accounts for only 1% of the total consumption of sugar in the European Union, we are of the opinion that this quantity cannot significantly jeopardise the European Union's sugar industry and, as the Commission calls for in its initiative to amend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their states and Member States. This type of situation is regulated in Article 38. In order to determine the existence of serious disturbances in the importing Party's sector, in this case the European Union shall have jurisdiction over a Stabilisation and Association Council which must clearly determine such damage and disturbances. In accordance with the provisions of Article 38, all procedures which would not satisfy this procedure may be considered to be non-compliance with the SAA to which respect has been committed both the Republic of Croatia and the European Union by ratification of this Agreement. However, in mid-June 2005, the European Commission addressed an initiative to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the SAA in the part that regulates the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union by introducing quotas on the export of Croatian sugar which is not based on the current SAA. However, the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement concerning exports from the signatories' country to the EU market are designed to be preferential and asymmetric in order to boost the economy of the Signatory country rather than restrictive to the development of its economy. This has not been amended nor has there been a request for negotiations on amendments to Protocol VII. The following facts should be pointed out in relation to the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union market. First, the Croatian sugar industry and its co-operatives became one of the most successful exporters of the Croatian food industry in several previous years. However, the European Commission's latest requests to produce and sell sugar as a successful Croatian export product have been seriously questioned. Secondly, in 2005, Croatian sugar producers intend to export 170 thousand tonnes of sugar worth more than 100 million euros to the European Union market. Third, sugar is the most important Croatian export product on the European Union market and is the original Croatian product. We estimate that the introduction of quotas would cause direct damage to the Croatian sugar industry measured hundreds of millions of euros annually. The reduction of Croatian sugar exports to the European Union raises questions about the business of Croatian sugars in Osijek, Virovitica, County. Shutting down one of the sugars means losing jobs for their employees, for carriers and co-operatives, so sugar-tail manufacturers. If there are quotas for the export of sugar, only 80,000 tonnes would mean the loss of tens of thousands of jobs. The European Union sugar trade regime should therefore remain encouraged to develop sugar production in Croatia. More significant restrictions on Croatian sugar exports would be contrary to the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. The export of Croatian sugar to the European Union market shall not be less than the average production of sugar per hectare in the Member States of the European Union for agricultural areas of 29 thousand hectares under the sugar tail in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the existing technology of sugar beet and sugar production, the average production of sugar in the European Union is 8 tonnes of sugar per hectare of sugar tail while the production in Croatia is 6 tonnes. Therefore, our conclusion is firstly that all negotiations with the European Union concerning the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union should be carried out by representatives of the Republic of Croatia through the Stabilisation and Association Council in accordance with Article 38. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Stabilisation and Association Agreements for negotiations with the European Union concerning the export of Croatian sugar are evidence that the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union is causing or could cause serious damage to the sugar industry in the European Union or serious disturbances in any sector of the European Union's economy or serious deterioration of the situation in the economy in a region of the European Union. Third, the introduction of quotas for the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union market is contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The sugar trade regime with the European Union should remain encouraged to develop sugar production in Croatia. Fourthly, representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the Stabilisation and Association Council should reject restrictions on Croatian sugar exports that would be contrary to the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. The possible export quota for exports from Croatia to the European Union market shall not be less than the production of sugar on the existing 29 thousand hectares under the sugar tail in the Republic of Croatia, with the production of sugar per hectare equal to the average of the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44568	Thank you. Would the rapporteur of the European Integration Committee like to take the floor? No, I don't. A representative of the government? Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44569	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives! I will state the position and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a conclusion on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in making a decision in the Stabilisation and Association Council for the following reasons. The driver of the initiative to start negotiations on the introduction of quotas for Croatian sugar exports is the European Commission. In line with that, it also proposes a legal basis for starting negotiations. In accordance with the general principles of international law, the Convention on International Contracts has begun negotiations on the modification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with a view to a possible change in the regime of exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is therefore a classic proposal to amend an international contract which may be referred to by any party which considers it necessary, in particular in the case of changed circumstances. The conduct of individual bodies of the executive and legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia in such cases is laid down by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. The European Commission has not proposed the activation of Article 38. However, it cannot be a legal basis for the proposed negotiations. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to start negotiations with the European Commission on the possible modification of the existing sugar export regime from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union from 2 June 2005 and then by letter from Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, Commissioner for... The European Commission has shown only the principle of willingness to open this type of negotiations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia reiterated that negotiations and possible amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement would be led in a way that would ensure maximum protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This position is visible in the proposal for a Decision adopting a negotiating platform for negotiations with the European Commission with a view to possible implementation of quotas for exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, with a view to consulting other relevant ministries. The proposal for a decision provides for two basic principles, the size of the quota should correspond to the possible production of sugar based on the production of sugar beet on the surface of cca. 30,000 hectares and secondly, a form of compensation to the Croatian side should be installed on the Stabilisation and Privatisation Agreement for the possible introduction of an export quota. In other words, in the draft negotiating platform, even stronger protection of Croatian interests is proposed compared to the proposal presented in the context of the conclusion of the club, the representative of the HSP. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also points to the lack of logic in the explanation of the proposal for a conclusion on the possible damage to the introduction of quotas. If the damage can be said at all, it cannot be measured by hundreds of millions of euros per year, since total exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union depend on the transfer of sugar beet amounting to around 100m euros per year. Notwithstanding the proposal of the club of HSP representatives, representatives of the Republic of Croatia attended the Committee, at a meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Committee in Brussels on 14 July 2005, informed the European Commission that taking into account the legal and financial implications of the amendment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would consult the Croatian Parliament on the adoption of official views on the issue. The consultation of the Croatian Parliament has nothing to do with Article 38. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. And let me now say a few more words that we absolutely agree that the issue of sugar production and exports to the Republic of Croatia and from the point of view of agriculture and the food industry is an extremely important and important issue. We know the whole situation, and as you have heard from this part of the negotiating platform, Croatian negotiators will know how to protect the interest of Croatian producers, both tails that are far more numerous, as well as producers and employees who work in the direct sugar industry. But allow me to inform the wider Croatian public I have to say a few things that are very important for this so that the overall problem can be understood. I must stress that by 2002, Croatia had no exports of sugar to European Union countries at all. That in 2001, the European Commission unilaterally made it possible for the countries of the "Western Balkans" in quotes without quota and without customs exports of sugar to the European Union. That Croatia, and this must be stressed, has institutionalised the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where it is also incorporated that Croatia has unlimited opportunities, not limitless but as much as production opportunities are such, it has the possibility of exporting to the European Union countries. So Croatia has institutionalized and has a contractual relationship related to free export of sugar and you are absolutely right there. But I must also tell you that a major reform of sugar is under way in the European Union, that, within this reform of sugar and yet conditioned by the relations of the VTO and the European Union with the lost European Union's dispute with the VTO and all that was the essence of this reform, is that the price of sugar in countries in the European Union will fall, that there will be a new sugar market order, that there will be ca somewhere. 40% lower than it is now. I must also stress that as part of the reform that it will go to a reduction in the area under the sugar tail for somewhere cca. 40%. For these reasons, the European Commission and the European Union are also seeking a certain form of cooperation from the Republic of Croatia. There is no indication in accepting the negotiations anywhere and on the platform that the Croatian side has agreed to a quota. The quota is possible as a result of the negotiations, respecting the facts and views brought to us by the representatives of the European Commission, but not on the manufacturer's nuclei of sugar beets or sugar producers. It means neither agriculture nor the food industry of the Republic of Croatia. Everything you said in your explanation is absolutely correct. About importance as an export product. It is also true that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that this proposal by the European Commission is not in the very spirit of the agreement because the agreement provides for further forms of liberalisation rather than reducing the rights acquired. But also Croatia cannot disobey the proposal for negotiations by the European Commission. You are from the platform you have the opportunity to see that Croatian producers will neither be denied nor threatened with the possible introduction of the quota. And the other thing, we can't talk, I repeat again about hundreds of millions of euros in damage related to causing the introduction of a quota, when we take it, just to say once again the data on the export of sugar from the Republic of Croatia so far. In 2002, 65,000 tonnes were exported from Croatia worth 40 million dollars, in 2003 162 thousand tonnes worth $120 million, in 2004 49,000 tonnes worth $40 million, and by the end of the eighth month 2005 108 thousand tonnes worth of $77 million were exported. So the value you state as damage is practically the total value of exports from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44570	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation? When the debate opens. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, fellow Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44571	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Minister saying a possible quota or a reduction in sugar exports will not significantly endanger sugar producers. If it did not pose a major threat to this at all, then the European Union would not even ask for an amendment to this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44572	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44573	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! Before us is the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in making decisions in the Stabilisation and Association Council of the motions of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Law. The proposal by the Croatian Party's Representatives Club should define the rules for the negotiation of the Croatian side with the European Union in relation to the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the government's position in Croatia and the proposal for a conclusion will not accept. At first, I would like to take a brief look at the framework in which the reform of the sugar system in the European Union is taking place. In early June this year, the European Commission presented a proposal for a long-term reform of the European Union's sugar market. Given that the sugar market system has not been changed in the European Union for 40 years, the Member States and the institutions of the European Union have raised the issue of modernising it. Based on the conclusions adopted, the proposed reform would take four years for competitive producers to leave this production as painlessly as possible. The reform of the sugar market should lead to a reduction in the European Union's sugar prices by 39% also to an increase in competitiveness and market orientation and the European Union's sugar sector. It should also ensure sustainability over a longer period and strengthen the position of the European Union in global sugar negotiations and meet WTO obligations. The Council of Ministers is expected to adopt by the end of 2005 a Regulation on reform to be applied since July 2006. This is therefore the context of the European Union. Where Croatia is located. Since 2000, Croatia has been allowed unlimited and duty-free exports of almost all products. The reason for the introduction of these asymmetric trade measures was to encourage economic development and reforms in the Republic of Croatia and in other countries of the region. The asymmetric liberalisation of trade preceded the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. During the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations, Croatia has chosen to continue the unlimited exports of its own sugar to the Member States of the European Union. Following the overall reform of the sugar market, the agriculture ministers adopted in February of this year a Regulation establishing quotas for exports of sugar from the countries of South-Eastern Europe to the Member States of the European Union at a preferential rate. At the same time, a decision has also been taken to open negotiations with Croatia and Macedonia on the introduction of sugar quotas into the European Union. The European Commission has completed its sugar negotiations with Macedonia and has replaced the current free access to sugar with a 7 thousand tonnes annual quota under preferential conditions. Other countries of the region have been established without negotiations. Therefore, the European Commission has requested negotiations with the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given only principled readiness to open negotiations. In the event of their opening, the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced that through negotiations and possible amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it would ensure maximum protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the way or the legal framework for the conduct of negotiations, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with the general principles of international law of the Convention on International Treaties, the European Commission has proposed to launch negotiations on the amendment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is therefore a proposal to amend an international contract which may be referred to by any party who considers it necessary, and in particular in the case of changed circumstances. The European Commission has therefore not proposed the activation of Article 38 of the Agreement, and therefore it is not a legal basis for the proposed negotiations and it is not possible to conduct negotiations through the Stabilisation and Association Council. Let us note that at a meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Committee in July this year, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed the European Commission that, taking into account the legal and financial implications of the amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would consult the Croatian Parliament before adopting official views on this issue. I start negotiations and his results come at confirmation at the Croatian Parliament. It is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to negotiate and possibly amend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in a way that best protects the interests of farmers, sugar producers and thus the very interest of the Republic of Croatia. A negotiating platform designed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for negotiations with the European Commission with the aim of introducing quotas for exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union with the aim of consulting other relevant ministries provides for two basic principles. First, the size of the quota should correspond to the possible production of sugar based on the production of sugar beet on a surface of 30 thousand hectares. Secondly, a form of compensation to the Croatian side should be installed in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the possible introduction of an export quota. In other words, in the proposal for a negotiating platform, the interests of the Croatian side are well protected and a stronger protection of Croatian interests is proposed compared to the proposal presented in the light of the conclusions of the Croatian party of rights club. In particular, we point to the proposal's failure as the proposal for the conclusion of the HSP's Club of Representatives also discusses the possible damage to the introduction of quotas that would amount to hundreds of millions of euros per year. However, the total exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, depending on sugar beet yields, is about 100m euros annually. For these reasons, and taking into account the broader context of our relations with the European Union in the area of agriculture as well as the overall process of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the HDZ Representatives Club will not accept the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Assembly on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making process at the Stabilisation and Association Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44574	Thank you very much. The club of HNS representatives of the PGS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44575	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to begin in a way that I'd like to commend Mr. Secretary. He is one of the few ministers who every time a bill, decision or decision appears here in connection with his ministry's jurisdiction is regularly with us, which is for every commendation, unlike some other ministers I've never seen before or perhaps once in the course of the current hour in these two years. And I think it's worth saying. And now I can start tripping you a little bit. I'm kidding. This is my colleagues and colleagues reporting in front of the PGS Club for a reason because I think this example is very doctory, very instructive. Here sugar is just a sage, and I think we need to learn a lot from the example of sugar. In fact, although the European Union has been refusing to start negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union for months now, clearly obliging this black-and-white technique against General Gotovina, we still see that in this same period, in these same few months, the European Commission finds a way to come clearly to us, to initiate negotiations, to find ways to introduce quotas, to find ways to reduce imports from Croatia, to find ways to protect its interests, regardless of our interest, although the SAA is just talking about helping and wanting to help the country that signed the SAA and our development project is of secondary importance. Why is it so we at our club were wondering, if this is given the time-consuming unit leading to The Hague then it is very incorrect by the European Commission, but I want to believe that it is not so. Which could then be the reason. We didn't mention it here, but it seems to me that one of the drops that spilled the glass could be a situation, a shame that we had not so long ago with the export of sugar, when we're in state sugars where the state directly sets up management, it's responsible for everything that's going on there, we had a situation that people didn't distinguish sugar cane from sugar tail. If that is the reason, then we must be very careful and learn from it very much. We need to stop the thieving, we need to start European behaviour and we need to make one important turn, and that is where you, Mr. Minister, must in the future, sharp sanctions, not just you, but every minister within his jurisdiction, clearly take measures so that they no longer happen because they will always hunt us down in such detail and hold us by our necks. With full right because we signed that we would behave differently and we made a different commitment to export sugar. In the HNS PGS Club, we already support the proposal that the Government consults the Croatian Parliament in the future before adopting future positions in relation to changes to the SAA in view of the serious, possible serious legal and financial implications that may arise from the change in the SAA. However, at the HNS PGS Club, I would also like to underline another possibility that should be slightly included in what awaits us for the next months and years, which is to slightly activate our national committee. If this has no implications for what's waiting for us tomorrow through these negotiations, then I don't know what we should have, and it would be very good for this Committee to find itself, to start collecting buildings to start preparing seriously for what we promised as a Parliament to do in the coming months and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44576	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44577	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I think that this opportunity should support the government's opinion, the debate on this conclusion at a crucial time when it is decided whether Croatia will start negotiations with the European Union, I think we did not need it. I am reading here now a survey on "Evening List" here is still changing, when Croatia's relationship to the European Union, however, the Union needs Croatia far more than the Union needs Croatia. We can do without the European Union but this will clearly not be a perspective policy, at last all Eastern European countries have profited greatly by entering the European Union. That is why I, above all, hope that the start of the negotiations will soon come with the European Union, see Croatia as a definitive escape from the Balkans. More specifically, I see the start of the negotiations as a definitive sign that Croatia will not join the European Union in a package with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania, which would be unspective of our country. If we get the start of the negotiations, I think it will be a big deal for the Republic of Croatia, it is "fleeing from the Balkans" not in that geographical but political sense. And after that, I guess we'll be more concerned with the economy, the social, the economy, the rule of law, the conversion, because from the revision of the conversion, let's not benefit after two paroles and after two fines. It is clear as everyone before me pointed out that it is necessary to protect our economy but what should also be pointed out that in 2005 the sugar export disorder was not recorded, it did not occur as it is stated in this explanation, for example, to the reduction of employees in the sugar industry. However, as the minister noted by 2002 we had no exports of sugar to the European Union at all, then there were exports of only 65 thousand tonnes, in 2003 it was our record export year when we exported to the European Union 162 thousand tonnes. In 2004, we were de facto destroyed by the drought, then only 49,000 tonnes or 25 million euros were exported from the sugar industry in 2003 and in 2005 108 thousand 665 tonnes of sugar were exported for 8 months. So, according to these data, we can be sure that at least at the end of the year we will reach exports from 2003, or that we will exceed 170 thousand tonnes thanks to the activities of both Osijek and Virovitic and County sugars. That's what I think we need to emphasize in order to know what's being discussed here. So this year Croatia will certainly carry out close to 100m euros in sugar, although it is possible that, due to some changes in the European Union, this amount will be worse in these quantities than it has been the case so far and something has been said by Minister Cobankovic. I also want to believe that such exports will continue with this intensity for the next years, so the export of sugar also shows why Croatia needs Europe. It means he can place his products. The European Union is a huge market and unfortunately, however rough the economic dwarf sounds in that same European Union. The problem is that we hardly produce anything in this country, which is our exports of only $8 billion, and clearly that in this $8 billion export, the sugar industry must have one privileged position. I would like to mention my favorite example of Slovakia that exports, say, $30 billion a year, and why this is because Croatia is unable to attract the relevant foreign capital that we had in 2004, 2003, only $800 million under the quotes "Greenfield" investment is a defacto profit of foreign companies registered in the Republic of Croatia, which we had previously sold to foreigners, while Slovakia received clean $5 billion "Greenfield" investment. And finally let us not forget that the greatest advocate for the Eastern European countries' approach to the European Union was capital. Except their standard of living has greatly increased. He unfortunately does not enter Croatia, although now we have begun to export our capital again as perhaps early in the 1990s to the UK more precisely to the British Virgin Islands. And this data that we have today is about to read that for the first, what, 7.8 months in Croatia, a billion and 100 million dollars is invested, it's nothing but fiction, actually a retained profit of Croatian foreign-owned companies that we previously sold to foreigners, e.g. INA, HT, etc. For the end. It is clear that our economy should be protected and protected and what may be far more important to this branch at this time should not be sold to anyone, that it would not happen to us that later by competition that our branch is actually eliminated from the global market. I say this mostly because of the fear that something similar can happen the next day with Croatian shipyards which are also intended for the fate of privatisation, clearly steel, if any of them are working in the Republic of Croatia or sugars at all. It is a question that must be discussed, which the Croatian Parliament should also talk about when we do not want to discuss the resignations or epidemics that prevailed in the child's defence. We sell means, it's fear, market sales and the possibility of competition shutting down our competition on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. That should be the case, and I don't think this conclusion of the Croatian party's right should be accepted at this time. At the moment he was offered, he had a clear, supposed "logic" because we didn't know how these trends would go, but when you keep in mind that for the first 8 months 108 thousand 665 tons of sugar was exported, I don't think there's any reason to be "scared" under quotes. Mr Doric clearly correctly noted and warned of our Balkan practice where we are trying to outplay the institutions of the European Union but gentlemen will not do so. We can trick them with the reed or vice versa, but it will remain not only recognized but it will be the day after tomorrow and sanctioned, and here we should send a message to our sugars not to play with the institutions of the European Union because they will risk not only their incomes from the Republic of Croatia but also their business results directly or indirectly jeopardising themselves and the workers working in that sugar industry. He thinks that such practice is naive and that it is clear that this practice should not be played. So much, even though I'd like to say one more thing, but I don't know if I'm allowed to talk about what's going on in the custody office for the kids where...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44578	Leave this fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44579	Where's...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44580	Let go of this fellow Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44581	Where it's because of the fear that the epidemic doesn't spread to some other institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44582	The HSS Club, Honorable Agent Ivan Kolar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44583	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Allow a brief observation of the HSP proposal and our view of the situation. We think that any proposal in this assembly should be subject to serious discussion and we take the proposal's concerns about the possible consequences if this happens. We understand, on the other hand, the position of the Government, absolutely at this point, because the facts are such that, before practically getting a date for accession to the European Union's negotiations, it is best not to wave. However, we have to discuss each of our producers and care for the manufacturer of the processing facilities for the time being, at least the stabilised sugar industry is clear that it must lead us all together in order for such a bar situation to remain. So it's not great and it's great whether we get a date today or tomorrow for negotiations but how we approach negotiations, what arguments we go with, what we get. I look forward to being said here that it is only an attempt to join the negotiations and that they have really not even started and that there are no concerns, if that is already the case, but I think that for the second or third time in this assembly, it is indeed necessary to take seriously and the government's view that such negotiations will not occur that this concept is potentially disrupted. However, the bitter taste remains, Mr Minister, I think it was also unnecessary to say, an event that the European Union is preparing for itself, so sugar prices etc.. However, we must further support our brand here because I must warn you that they have done this in the previous period intensively and prepared for this 40% reduction in the price of the finished product and will certainly not have any fractures that could have caused a real disaster with us at this time, as HSP says if we had to put ourselves on the European Union level. I say it responsibly this country doesn't have the money at this time, we haven't prepared an institute in any way to do it and that's the point of it all. So your claim that this government is responsible for this debate, I accept it as an argument that it will not happen. Because it rings a bell for every agricultural producer if the price of sugar falls so clearly and so clearly, sugar root products are falling and so much and we are convinced that with us simply imputes grow and that the finished product simply no longer has the potential to rise and our agricultural producer is located in a limited sector where it no longer earns more profit than with only more production itself barely spacious production except some branches, I do not place everything in the same plane. So it would be good to have the positive condition that we now have and that guarantees us... to remain at that level independently now who has some desire or I don't know us for something makes us, we are, again speaking autonomously with these decisions and we don't have to answer to all wishes only with good will, bowing but eventually you yourself mentioned that the government is considering compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good to say what compensation these are. It means that the quota reduction is already seriously discussed as soon as compensation is discussed. That's clearly what I'm saying. That's clearly said. Those who deal with this problem recognize it. And we're afraid now, we're afraid now that this compensation, I don't know if it's in the right sense of words in the right place or that compensation being, you remember when they were asymmetric negotiations with the Republic of Hungary, when they offered us so many quantities of hectolitres of wine that we simply couldn't fill even thirty percent of our exports because we weren't prepared for such imports, for such exports. If this offers us now the European Union as compensation for quotas in some, I don't know which production it is, and it needs to be understood that it is blackmail, pressure on a small Croatia that is not now, ready to compete at this hour and we need to discuss it. So all these discussions that are going to the Parliament, I assume that they only have the incentive of the government to remain consistent to keep every agricultural producer that they produce, some agricultural production means. That it is slightly strengthened, that it is stronger because it is through the association of its own production increase and that ultimately the state provides it with a secure framework for its, its existence, its income and ultimately that it is not questionable, questionable determination whether to produce or not? I must say that this, this area of sugar beet and sugar beet producers are extremely organized. This is a large number of cooperatives and the way they exist is actually one message as other brands should be. I don't think we should be outvoted about this or not, but take it as a message. That's why our HSS message is to the Government wind in the back, absolute failure in conversation and when it begins to negotiate in a way that doesn't fit, now because it doesn't commit us to any act yet and about it, and when we talk about it, it's the fate of the people. That this existence is threatened by those who deal with it, and ultimately the processing capacity that they are now having to say where large restructuring funds have been invested, the way in which it happened. They now have one perspective and can ultimately be 100 million or 110 million no matter how much the value of export sugar production is one export card of the Republic of Croatia in further efforts to improve the balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia. So we support this positive example of HSP in such a way that it is a self - contribution to strengthen our negotiating position, attitudes that we must defend, and to defend that we are on our own and that we do not agree to any blackmail from small ones rather than to evenly discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44584	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44585	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. Here is a proposal from the HSP Club, which basically also means asking for the negotiating position to be set in the process that government negotiators will represent in the negotiations on amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, to include the Croatian Parliament. In order to possibly introduce quotas for the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union, which is required by the European Union in the best possible way. On behalf of the SDP Club, I appreciate that this initiative is welcome. To trace the protection of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia and to reflect the constitutional role and competence of the Assembly as representative bodies. But what happens now? Instead of strengthening its negotiating position by accepting that the government's views of, respect and reflections and views of the Croatian Parliament, the Government has entered into the legal and perhaps political debate as to whether negotiations with the European Union should be conducted in the framework of the Stabilisation and Association Council or outside of any body established by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Whether or not the Parliament is formally in a position to be able or not to participate in the debate. This is what the debate held in the Croatian Parliament would like to repeat when considering the interpretation of the HSS on negotiations on Protocol 7. And then the government was as important as it was, in fact, the government and then it wasn't, it wasn't as important as it was to represent Croatian economic interests by including both parliamentary positions and proposals in the negotiating positions. She was primarily concerned about how to prevent a parliamentary debate in which perhaps the opposition could say something against the government's negotiating positions, or perhaps she could suggest better solutions. And perhaps the government is also afraid that the Parliament or at least the parliamentary opposition could have misjudged in the protection of fundamental national interests, so it must not be allowed to ban governmental sovereignty. This is how we come to the wider political dimension of the government's response to the proposals on sugar export negotiations. To what extent is the Government willing to admit that the Parliament can have its own initiative? That these initiatives can help and strengthen government proposals even when there may be no direct legal basis to formally request the parliament's participation. Such an inappropriate relationship, and of course the Government and the ruling parties to the constitutional position and jurisdiction of the legislative authority and to the possible practical joint action of the legislative and executive authorities, unfortunately, also faces the clear acceptance of the parliamentary majority which is so easily willing to agree to the government's domination over parliament and to systematically reduce the importance of parliamentary democracy. Although the government here obviously insisted on form, not on the content of the problem it does not even do so consistently. At least when it comes to obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with which the Government is obviously having major problems. So far, she has twice escaped from its application to the interpretation of Protocol 7 and now to sugar quotas. And once, she certainly broke it. This happened when the former foreign minister signed a co-operation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia as part of the approach to the European Union, and the government had not previously delivered either a negotiation report or before signing a request for the Parliament's consent, which was mandatory under Article 8. The law on the implementation of the SAA. At the time, the government did not respect the formal or actual obligations of the Law and did not worry so much that it satisfied the legal form of its obligations as in this case the sugar export quota. Here I think the government also had a chance to do another one, which is to ignore its commitments from the conclusions of the November 2001 Parliament. The conclusion obliges the government to submit every 6 months to the Croatian Assembly a report on the course of the stabilisation and accession process, which includes, of course, the implementation of the SAA. We all know here that the government is not every six months but has never delivered a report to the Parliament and has requested a debate on these issues. And so she completely excluded the Assembly from accessing information on the implementation of the SAA. And if it had implemented this existing and valid conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the Government could, in the ordinary procedure, inform the Parliament in good time that there is an initiative of the European Union to amend the SAA and introduce quotas for sugar exports, and then it would not have happened that communication between the Government and the European Commission on the sugar issue would be a carefully guarded state secret which only individual opposition representatives disclose on their issues at the current morning. At that time, it would not happen that the government would be in a defensive position but rather before the start of the negotiations and that it would unnecessarily accept the European Union's proposals to lead the negotiations outside the Stabilisation and Association Council. If Parliament had been informed and involved in time, there would probably be more room to give some counter-proposals to the European Union, such as that the counter-proposal that these negotiations must be conducted within the Stabilisation and Association Council, which would then balance our initial positions and prevent us from adopting more unfavourable solutions in advance. Therefore, today there will be no real benefit from the government's willingness to consult the Croatian Parliament in its letter before adopting its official views on the issue of export quotas on sugar. I'm afraid it's too late for such a consultation of the Parliament. It will not help much now that the government has already agreed to negotiate and negotiate outside the Stabilisation and Association Council, and in addition, it still did not have the government's negotiating platform, although the competent ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, have long prepared a proposal for a negotiating platform. But to return to the SDP's views on this issue, they are simple, clear, well-founded. Firstly, the sugar trade regime with the European Union depends largely on the overall development of the sugar industry in Croatia, the overall level of exports of agricultural and food products as a whole, and of course the sustainability of the sugar business and the sustainability of several thousand jobs in the production of turnips and sugar. Therefore, our priority goal is to keep the provisions and free and unlimited duty-free exports of Croatian sugar to the European Union. These provisions were well agreed by the Government to the SAA and thus directly enabled the increase of sugar exports from 5 thousand tonnes in 2000 to about 170 thousand tonnes in 2003, i.e. an increase in export value to at least 100 million euros per year. Secondly, there was no reason to accept the European Union's initiative to start negotiations on changes to the SAA, to introduce export quotas for Croatian sugar, as this was not necessary under the existing SAA provisions. It should have been insisted from the start that the problem of Croatian sugar exports to the European Union, if there are any talks in the Stabilisation and Association Council at all, should be pursued, pursuant to Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The SSP. The application of the general principles of international law to which the European Union is called cannot exclude the need for any amendments to be negotiated for the reasons set out in the Agreement and within the common bodies provided for in the Agreement. When the government accepted the opening of negotiations on its own initiative, it agreed in advance to the quota, even if it was agreed even higher than the production potential of our sugarcanes, would be a more unfavourable solution than existing free exports. If for no other reason, then for administrative procedures that will make our exports more difficult in the variant of the existence of quotas. The situation is even more difficult, because the European Union certainly does not seek to open the quota negotiations to cover all our objectively possible quantities of exports, but is referring to a quota that would most likely halve our exports of sugar to the European Union. As it is now impossible to withdraw from the negotiations after the government's consent, our initial negotiating position in the Stabilisation and Association Council should be that there are no real and valid reasons for changing the free-export regime. Well, the proposal should be rejected to access the changes to the SAA and introduce restrictions on the export of Croatian sugar. The export of our sugar represents only about 1% of the consumption of sugar in the European Union, so it certainly does not cause, nor could it cause serious damage to the sugar industry in the European Union. Furthermore, if the European Union has convincing arguments to amend the agreement, then we must define a negotiating position that would be the last line of defence for our interests. This position should be that the quota must not be less than 240 thousand tonnes of sugar, which represents the production of sugar and sugar beet that can be obtained from the existing 30,000 hectares under the sugar tail, with sugar production per hectare of the tail corresponding to the average of the Member States of the European Union, means about 8 tonnes of sugar per hectare of the sugar beet. This would also take into account the possibility of a dynamic increase in the quality and yield of sugar beet production and an increase in productivity in sugar production over the next few years until Croatia joins the European Union until the quota agreed and applies. Then, if a quota for the export of Croatian sugar is introduced at that level of 240 thousand tonnes, the European Union should seek appropriate trade compensation in the SAA, e.g. the abolition of the European Union export subsidies on exports to Croatia for products containing cheap sugar subsidised or further liberalisation of the still limited exports of our June or fish and fish processing to the European Union market. So, without a 240 thousand-ton quota and no trade compensation, there's no change in the SAA. And in the end, of course, it may not even be necessary to repeat the Government must regularly inform the Croatian Parliament of the course of these negotiations. Here, as can be seen from these views, the SDP can in principle agree with the HSP's initiative to draw conclusions that will define the negotiating framework for negotiations for Croatian sugar exports to the European Union. Since this is a very serious and very complex issue of importance for the economy, we propose that an inter-party group be formed to draw up a proposal for a final text of conclusions that would then be proposed for adoption to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44586	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Gordan Jandroković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44587	Your Honor, Mr. President. In the presentation of Mr Mimica, there was a whole series of incorrect and trendy allegations, and I will only correct the fact that the government has avoided a debate in the House on Protocol 7, as well as a whole series of other issues. I will remind you that the government and we have discussed Protocol 7 here in parliament, however, that the party represented by Mr Mimica at that time almost did not participate in the debate, that the party represented by Mr Mimica then left her coalition partners, HSS, and when voting on the government's mistrust here, there are only a dozen MPs who voted in favour. So don't say there wasn't a chance and there was no debate, because there were.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44588	On behalf of the promoter, the club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44589	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. President. I thank you in the first row of the HNS, HSS and SDP clubs to support this initiative. We are actually discussing today a series of really essential issues in relation to the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union, where sugar trade is only a paradigm, just one key example. It is, in fact, in the first row on the sense of consent to the opening of separate negotiations on sugar trade ahead of the supposed opening of negotiations, the general negotiations with the European Union on the accession of the Republic of Croatia. Does this readiness of Croatia mean for this round of private negotiations on sugar trade, does it also mean that letters from the European Union to the Republic of Croatia agree with a kind of message that those legal negotiations will not be? Which is why, therefore, opening negotiations on the sugar trade regime, if we are to be expected to negotiate with the Union in general again soon. It's a question that today in this whole story is plagued. And we didn't get any answers on him here. Another essential reason is that Croatia has a signed and ratified Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. It may seem irrelevant to the Croatian government, but this is the only framework for mutual communication between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union until negotiations are opened, i.e. until Croatia enters the European Union. This Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the only one that actually regulates Croatia's way of communicating with the Union and resolving all issues in bilateral relations between Croatia and the Union. Nothing else. So we here must not act like Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania that does not have such an agreement. We have an SAA and we have to stick to it, especially if it's on our hands. This is indeed the highlight of the unusual behaviour that the Croatian Government willingly gives up the application of the safeguard mechanisms offered by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in a situation where it goes hand in hand and that someone from the Government, including you, Mr Minister, claims that the SAA is actually irrelevant, irrelevant because we have opened the negotiations on sugar. No, negotiations like anything else on the Croatian and European Union route are regulated exclusively through the SAA, that is its purpose. This is the meaning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Why are we all together, why have we given this proposal a conclusion, because it is crystal clear that the European Union wants to introduce a reform of the sugar market. I have here a proposal for reform of the sugar market, it is a proposal, it is not yet a valid document, we are in an absurd situation, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees with negotiations with the European Union to comply with the non-existent document. So we agree to negotiations with the European Union in order to comply with the non-existent reform, which is not yet an official document, it is only a proposal and may not pass in this form. But the craziest thing will be applied from July next year. And we are now ready to agree to negotiations to adapt to it. At least she won't be adopted, and she won't be adopted until July next year. It's a thing that me and my colleagues at the HSP Club just wonders, we don't understand what's really there. According to the reform, and according to EU announcements for the entire Western Balkans area, some 300 thousand tonnes of maximum exports are forecasted and there are clear rumors from the European Union that they would be pleased if Croatia exported a maximum of 60 to 80,000 tonnes. So in this context of your announcement that you will firmly defend 30,000 acres times 8 tons per hectare we consider statements for domestic use. As it will be during the negotiations, we will only see this because when the European Union decides on something and when the other side agrees, there is really no reason for these intentions to give up, especially when you do not stick to the procedure. All the HSP Club insists in this situation is that the Croatian government and the Croatian state are holding procedures prescribed in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement especially in situations where the agreement protects the Republic of Croatia. So, Article 38, regardless of what the Union has not called upon him, of course not, but we are the ones who have to call upon him if he protects our interests. Of course the Union won't call on him because they know there's nothing they can do about him. Because, firstly, we would have to show that our exports of only 1% of its sugar to the Union bear irreparable economic damage to them, the latter should agree to the Stabilisation and Association Council, which is a parent body and the third, would have to agree to the introduction of one-off customs duties for a period of one year, and that is all, no quotas of Article 38 will be mentioned. And what's most interesting is that the government will be attending any talks at the Stabilisation and Association Council, and it must get a platform from the Parliament, which in this case but is not. So,... quite willingly, not waiting at all for negotiations, for no reason whatsoever, without the Parliament's approval, not taking care of all possible economic consequences agree to open negotiations and that's what's worrying. So in this context, we listen to this story about how we will firmly protect 30,000 acres times 8 tons of it in our club HSP does not drink water in particular if everything together does not take place through a procedure guaranteed by the SAA but in completely free political negotiations and what happens. And, of course, when compensation is still possible, so as soon as compensation is in play, it's clear what time it is. So, it's actually done, my colleagues Caine doesn't have here, but I've heard from him today a fantastic statement, which is that we protect our economic interests by agreeing to a violation of our interests, it's really a theater of absurdity. So, the European Union has a strong interest in stopping imports of sugar from Asia, South Africa and the Caribbean countries, which is why Croatia, with its 1% export sugar, is guilty, which we do not know but we believe that we have a strong economic interest in maintaining that export and defining its protection. The SSP clearly prescribes all possible quotas and trade regimes, there are no letters anywhere for the introduction of sugar quotas, for export... sugar, there is no letter for the export of bladder pipes, but you know what happened, the European Union has introduced quotas for the export of Croatian bladder tubes from Sisak of 25 thousand tonnes, which is 1/5 of mammalian production, and they have done it dead-cold, regardless of what is not in the SAA. No one said from Croatia that the government did not react to this and that those quotas expired on 1 February this year logically assume that the same will happen to sugar when the negotiations are broken down, because so-called. It is a fantastic quote for me, working to take into account the wider context Croatia will agree to this. It's this broader context that we're just here afraid of. The only good thing about what I heard today from Mr. Minister is that the foundation will not be the existing annual exports that were the original statements from the Ministry because that would lead us to a dead end, would lead us to an average export of good and bad years, dry and wet years, and then our export quota would not be more than 80 to 100 thousand tonnes. If, however, it is done in the way we have proposed here and what we believe the Government will accept as the basis for negotiations, which is that the quota is if it already has an existing area in Croatia times as many tonnes per hectare as the European Union so 8 tonnes does not 6 tonnes as it produces Croatia, then well but the question is whether it will be true. I know it's probably the Croatian government's wish, but I doubt it'll be anything if the European Union takes a turn and Croatia takes into account so-called. Wider context. What is particularly interesting is that, therefore, we claim, or the Government argues that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement cannot be applied, so we will not respect this mechanism, we will not wait for general negotiations with the Union to include the story of sugar in this, but we are opening separate negotiations. So far, we're interested in where the so-called club is. The Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union. This is where the so-called "spectacular" was spectacularly established. The Alliance for Europe, all party leaders have signed the document, there is even a joint supervisory committee. However, none of the government thought to consult the supervisory board to ask the leaders of the parties sitting in it what they thought, but they entered the project dead-cold without the approval of the board and without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the economy is not protected by consenting to quotas and by consenting to a reduction in exports, but by protecting our rights by respecting the procedure laid down in the applicable international agreements. That's why we're looking for these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44590	Thank you. Five minutes of club debate. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44591	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I have answered the question, however, in order to comment on some of the discussions we have heard about the proposal for the Croatian Parliament's conclusions on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making committee for Stabilisation and Association of the motions of the HSP Club of Representatives. I have the impression that we have started to talk about something very passionate, which will happen, which has not yet happened, the government has done everything it has to do, but we are concerned that perhaps what they did in the end might not be implemented because the European Union will firmly defend its positions, and Croatia will give way. This is simply not true because the government has very precisely defined the way it will negotiate and set the minimum and maximum that will defend in accordance with Croatian national interests. I'll do it again. When it comes to the legal framework for the conduct of negotiations and it has been given and proposed by the European Commission, in accordance with the general principles of international law, it has proposed the launch of negotiations to amend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, it is a proposal to amend the international treaty and therefore we cannot discuss the negotiation under Article 38 of the Agreement because it is not a legal basis for the proposed negotiations and cannot be conducted within that 38th article. I also believe that we cannot extract from the context what is happening in Croatia because both the European Union and Croatia are part of a globalised world. The European Union is also forced to redefine its sugar policy, implement certain reforms that are not for citizens of EU Member States, always at will and especially for their sugar producers, and they are forced to do so. Of course, they also ask countries that have certain contracts with them. There is Croatia. However, the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the best it can do to protect the interests of our producers, our farmers, is also our national interests. The government has firmly defined the negotiating platform, the proposal has been developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy with consultations and other resolution ministries and are two basic principles. First, the size of the quota should correspond to the possible production of sugar based on the production of sugar beet on a surface of 30 thousand hectares. And from what I understand, no one had any objections to the Croatian government's position. And the other thing is that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that some form of compensation should be incorporated into the agreement for the possible introduction of an export quota. Therefore, the government's position is well protected by the interests of the Croatian side and it is proposed to even strengthen the protection of national interests than is proposed by the Croatian party of rights. For this reason, I believe we can trust the Croatian government. I remember the debate on Protocol VII, it was also bile, tumultuous, and in the end it turned out that the Croatian government and our negotiators were able to fight very good positions for Croatia and that there were no reasons for such great tensions and heavy words that could then be heard in the Croatian Parliament. When I mention a broader context, we can't get away from it either. Croatia is today ahead of the start of negotiations on full membership in the European Union, it must lead a layered policy but, of course, it must not ignore and ignore its national interests. For this reason, I believe that the government's position is justified and, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I say we will not accept the proposal for conclusions proposed by the Croatian Party's Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44592	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Jandrokovic's incorrect allegations that the government did everything it needed to do about this. In fact, the government didn't do everything she needed, she didn't do anything. The only thing she did in this case is obey the wishes of the European Union once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44594	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44595	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen representatives! Of course, this topic of introducing Croatia's entry into separate negotiations with the European Union on the change in the regime of exports of sugar from Croatia and the introduction of a quota can also be widely interpreted and significantly more widely considered. This is primarily a matter of a certain dignity. This is a matter of preparedness to make its own laws and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement accepted in this House, that they cannot be changed by the will of the Government alone but by the will of this House. The Stabilisation Agreement here is perfectly accurate. He's worth Croatia. It is also worth it for the European Union. And let's not be in any doubt. We're partners. The partners are always, of course, trying to extract the best possible positions for one or the other, and it is understandable that the European Union's request is for certain problems that it is trying to impose a new regime on Croatia. The question of whether Croatia should agree to this. On how we treat the European Union in certain situations, whether we act obediently and simply accept everything that is required of us, and how we will conduct future negotiations. For the hundredth time, I'll point out. I am not a Euro skeptic, I understand the need for Croatia to start negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible. I understand he has to enter the European Union as soon as possible. I realize she can't stay isolated in this globalized world. But I also understand and insist on how much it is in my power for Croatia to have a significantly higher dose of dignity, self-awareness, determination and personal attitude, at least when a contract is signed or a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is clear. There is no reason to change, and gentlemen in the European Union know that as well. That's what we know. Before the negotiations begin, negotiations will begin in a month, in two months or six months, we will have time to define our strategic starting points then and we will have time to negotiate with the European Union. So, from this question, we should read other things. Why Croatia keeps on towards the European Union as a political project and not an economic project. The European Union is not a political project. The European Union for Croatia must first and foremost be an economic project and so far in this House, we have met at least twice as much as my party with the government on two very important economic issues. Question of Protocol VII. And I don't agree with Mr. Jandrokovic that he's done so well. It didn't end well, and no one can convince us. And now with these export sugar quotas. Let's not let our obsession be the beginning of negotiations. It doesn't matter to me whether it starts 15 days earlier or two months later. Let's try and be ready for those negotiations too. One more thing can be read from this, the attitude of the Croatian government towards the Croatian Parliament. Well, we didn't form the National Committee to be the decoration of this House or to be the decoration of the government towards the European Union. We formed it to be a control mechanism for negotiations towards the European Union. The National Committee is tasked with establishing strategic points for negotiations. The question arises why we still haven't established them even though we formed it a year ago. If we had established strategic departures, Mr. Secretary wouldn't have come to what we're talking about today. And just one more note. In particular, the question is how will this mic following Croatia's mic deviation from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement first through Protocol VII. and now through sugar quotas, how this works on the Croatian public, Croatian economic interests and those who are directly interested in the best economic position of Croatian peasants, sugars, etc. So don't be surprised that in the last year, the European Union's acceptance in this country has dropped from 82% to 37%. Well, gentlemen, the worst thing can happen to us is that we're going to start negotiations, we're going to finish them successfully, and then we're going to stand in front of the people for a referendum, and the people are going to tell us we're not going to join the European Union. I beg you, do not underestimate the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament in this way. The Croatian Peasant Party accepts the proposal of these conclusions as well as the proposal made by Mr Mimica if it is possible to sit together and make one proposal for conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44596	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that at 13 o'clock, 27 minutes have elapsed time for a ten-minute hearing. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44597	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representatives. I just want to find out that the government is staying on its proposal not to accept this proposal. I must repeat once again that there have been no errors in the procedure, that it is a classic proposal to change an international contract that does not prejudge anything. Here, both in the position and in the Government's decision on acceptance, it is clearly stressed that possible, and no change in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is being made. We in the Government and in the Ministry have also created an adequate platform of negotiations that will not, in any case, lead to a reduction in the export of sugar from the Republic of Croatia, as well as the possible introduction of quotas. So we know the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we know its provisions and we know our options as well. And once again, I would like to stress responsibly here that there will be no reduction in sugar exports from the Republic of Croatia by possibly introducing quotas. The second thing is that there will be a reduction in sugar exports, but for reasons of a possible reduction in production and so on, but due to quotas, there will be no reduction in exports from the Republic of Croatia and, responsibly, and as from the Government, the appointed leader of the negotiating team once again in front of this House, I would like to stress. And secondly, I don't think there's any talk of any blackmail or blackmail, these negotiations on the possible introduction of quotas can have, have anything to do with determining the starting date of the negotiations. This is part of the reform, the overall reform of sugar in the European Union, the European Union's desire to discuss this problem with the Republic of Croatia. It's another thing. I don't understand why everything always wants to be put into one negative context, I don't know, indulgences and the like. But I just need to remind you once again that sugar is something that Croatia and Croatian producers and tails and sugar simply can't have a little comment on the European Union. If it hadn't been for the European Union, we wouldn't have talked about the sugar industry in Croatia at all today. Let's go back to 2000, 2001, when the sugar company in Virovitica was in bankruptcy. Let's go back when the sugar company in County was in front of bankruptcy and it was practically a matter of the day when the bankruptcy would open and about the IPK sugar in Osijek I don't think I have to talk or talk about it during that period. And it was this decision that made the sugar industry, the production of sugar tails, stood on its feet. And so it's another argument and I absolutely agree, I respect certain, I respect certain concerns, I respect certain fears of the manufacturer, but it's simply that way that the consolidation of the sugar industry has taken place, I would say order in the production of sugar beet and lead us to this situation where we are. And once again, I don't want to go further or politicize, I just want to say clearly in front of the High House that there is no concern that Croatian producers don't have any tails or sugar, they don't have to have any fears that anything in the production of sugar, in the export of sugar, will change after these negotiations and possibly introduce quotas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44598	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44599	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Only two, two false allegations from Mr. Secretary I will correct. It is not true that the European Union wants to talk to Croatia. The European Union wants to negotiate with the Croatian Union and you, as the Government, have agreed to negotiations, not on talks, but on negotiations. That's the important difference, Mr. Minister. It is not true that this is not in line, that this is not contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, this is contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And I'm stressing again. As Government, you will have to be more determined to protect national and economic interests, so when it comes to the European Union. We must be serious partners, we must be determined partners, we must not be obedients who will meet their wishes at every moment of the European Union. Either we're partners or we accept another role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44600	Thank you. And another correction, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44601	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim. This decision does not allow the export of sugar to our sugars, it is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And that agreement allowed the export of sugar, that agreement. And I am also correcting any result of the negotiations will be a worse solution than the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it will be worse for our sugars. And we accept negotiations that put us in worse positions. And it is possible but then by the will of this Parliament because it is an international agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44602	Thank you. And final review on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44603	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Everything we've insisted on all these years, what we insist on today, what we're going to insist on, Mr. Minister, and in the future, is procedure. And that is that Croatia has signed and ratified a valid international agreement with the European Union that regulates all our relations with the Union and especially trade. In the trade part of the agreement, there are no letters on the introduction of sugar quotas. That is, therefore, the consequence of such an agreement. There is a quota for those products for which the Union has established at that time to be competitive, for example, fish. Later, quotas for steel quotas were introduced under the agreement... Sisak pipes that are also more competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Practically whenever we have a product that is competitive on the European market with its quality and price, you can be absolutely sure that sooner or later we will arrive at the introduction of quotas by the European Union. And that's a fact. Why has the Croatian government never used Article 38 so far when imports from the Euro Union into the Croatian market cause major disturbances, we do not know. That's what I'd like to get an answer for. But why is it so willing to agree to negotiations beyond the procedure provided for by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and by an inter-party agreement reached here in the Croatian Parliament that in these situations the National Committee must be activated that is what we do not know and can't understand, it is truly incomprehensible. The European Union therefore wants to negotiate the sugar trade regime in order to reduce exports and it is crystal clear, they do not want to ask us what we ate yesterday, they do not want to ask us how they are at home, but they want to reduce the export of sugar to the European Union market to protect their sugars and especially sugars in the new 10 Member States. And that's it! But in these situations Croatia must stick to international agreements. Whenever you step out of the firm and clear framework of international agreements on the deleted space of politics, Croatia is always in a bad situation and so it will be here as much as you talk about it. We therefore thank you once again for the support of the SDP, HSS and HNS Club as well as all others who have spoken individually that we really bring this conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. This, unfortunately, will only be the first of the strange steps before the start of negotiations with the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44604	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44605	Corrected, I would like to correct Mr Tadic's incorrect assumption that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is ready to agree to negotiations with the European Union and beyond procedures and beyond the interparty agreement on the activation of the National Committee for Negotiations, which is foreseen in these situations. So neither the government is willing to agree to any negotiations outside the procedure. It's just not true. We've heard this more than once from Minister Cobankovic. And secondly, there is no inter-party agreement on the activation of the National Committee for Negotiations in these situations because negotiations have not yet begun. And the National Committee is also headed by the president of the main opposition party, so I don't know what the government's responsibility is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44606	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Stanka. The vote at 15 o'clock on the points discussed. And fourthly, the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the positions of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in decision making in the Stabilisation and Association Council – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. Comrade Tadic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44608	Dear Mr President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I request a postponement of the vote on this point with a desire to make this clear to the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union and to reach an inter-party consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-09-30-0.u44609	Unfortunately, there is no party consensus because one part of the party accepts your proposal and your initiative. The ruling coalition parties do not accept, the government does not accept. I have to put it to a vote because there's no way to reach someone special consensus. Please engage. So I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the European Integration Committee, the conclusion that your proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. Come on, come on, come on, come on, We can vote. The result? The conclusion accepted by 64 votes for five abstentions and 12 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on Wednesday we will continue the debate with the Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and thereafter with point 11. Thank you very much. The seat's been cut off. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like a representative of Pero Kovacevic, please. Here you go.
