ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:15]] Registered in the 389 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluka Alexi Volodymirovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us good health and every success. Now, let me give you some information about the results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 29 November 2005. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. The results of the discussion. One law and two decrees were passed, 14 bills were adopted as a basis, 2 bills were drafted, 2 bills were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, 5 laws have been passed in a new edition, and the President's veto has been overtaken by one law. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations are 45 for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Please, Your Honor, file a statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the President of Ukraine for bringing the guilty to justice the failure of the 2005 budget to prejudice accidents and prevent technological disasters in the residential sector. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:16]] For-98 Request not supported. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of participants in the “Ukraine Without Couchma” campaign. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:43]] For-57 Request not supported. Alexander GOLUBA to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the Museum of the Eminent Ukrainian Painter John Chróstecki in the city of Pochayev of Ternopil. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:15.]] For 106 Request not supported. Soloveva to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, is hereby expelled. Ms. Soboleva to the President of Ukraine, for the illegal actions of the viceroy of the City Council. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:46]] For-56 The decision is not supported. Anton KISSE to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the Odessa Institute of the Land Army. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:14]] For 258. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:40]] For 266 Decision taken. Petra SIMONENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Prime Minister's report on the organization of the work of the people's agriculture during the winter period, on the implementation of measures to prevent an energy disaster. Vladimir ÍŠENKA Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of the Cabinet of Ministers to suspend certain articles of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of six judges of the Constitutional Court from the Supreme Council and on the oath of judges appointed by the President of Ukraine and the assembly of judges. Here I want to make a point. Not six, but four. Igor GrINIVA to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Justice, on the threat of losing state control over the production of documents of strict reporting and the need to develop a bill on State securities in Ukraine. Boris BENZED to the Prime Minister on the inadmissibility of transferring land to Kyivvistbud under construction in the Obolonian district of Kiev. EXAMPLE CATEGORIES to the Prime Minister for the preservation of life for patients with chronic renal insufficiency at Zaporez Hospital. Mr. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the educational corps of the Lviv State Agrarian University. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister for the introduction of the regulations and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which introduced the driving licence card, in accordance with article 15 of the Road Traffic Act. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Health, head of the Kyiv District Administration, on the health situation in the city of Rziszów in the Kyiv region. Mr. Komara to the Prime Minister on the issue of disagreement between ministers. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Prime Minister, the Kiev City Head, for the closure of the construction of the area around the National Museum of National Architecture and the National Academy of Sciences and for the definition of the principles for the further development of the museum. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister about setting indicative prices for sunflowers and returning value added taxes to processing enterprises. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of earmarked funds for the city of Novodnystrovska Černinovetsek in connection with the lack of funding for the city's problems from the State Budget. Eugena LAPINA to the Prime Minister on the violation of legislation on the inclusion in the general budget of the State Budget of a 50 per cent share of the profits resulting from financial and economic activities of the Open Shareholder Society Sumhimprom. Vladimir JAVORIY to the Prime Minister on the threat of rising prices for bread from the beginning of the new year, caused by the reduction of grain stocks, the suspension of the sale of grain to producers, which could lead to a disturbance in society, as well as political speculation during elections. Deputies to the Prime Minister on non-execution by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of the Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[FLAIMING, KALINCHUK, HOLIDAY]] Vladimir WOJŠA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of allocating funds for the production of technical documentation to the project on the definition of the School of Health in the Herson region as a child's resort of national importance. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the provision of the mining coals of pensioners of the decommissioned section of “Balachiv” of the State Holding Company “Alexandriavugil”. Anatoly by KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the prevention of accidents and technological disasters on iron concrete collectors in the city of Mikolayev. María MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Committee on Budget Affairs, on the 2006 State Budget Grant for the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters in the Zakarpatsk Region. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister for the insufficient financing of the construction of the gas to the villages of the Novoseltec region of Cherniewec. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the enforcement of the rule of law in the reform of the collective agricultural enterprise Agrofirma Chapaieva and for the preservation from the collapse of the agricultural society with limited responsibility of the New York Agrarian Company of the Region of Poltava. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation at the state-owned company “Calculator” of Svetłovodsk, where pay is not paid for nine years. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfactory receipt of State budget subsidies relating to the gasification of the Donetsk Region. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, HARA]] Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, for the non-closure of the children’s ward of the node hospital at the Wallovah Donetsk district. Anatolia HIRSCHFELDA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the construction of a high-pressure pipeline to the Sakhnovščina district of Kharkiv. Eugene LAPINE to the Prime Minister on the stabilization of the work of the State Institute of Industrial Technology and Design. Vladimir WOJA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District State Administration, on the gasification of the city of Tsurupinska, the population of the Skadovian, Holocaust and Chaplin regions of the Hersonian region. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister for approval of the composition of the Presidency of the High Auditorium. [[BILORUS, CITCH, DORONTSOV]] Groups of MPs to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Cabinet of Ministers of Law and the President of Ukraine's mandate to ensure timely payment of wages. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, COMAR]] PENALTIES OF CATUSH to the Prime Minister on the development of the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 in accordance with the requirements of Article 22 of the Constitution. In connection with the repeated rejection of the Russian side by the Russian side of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the order in which the forces of the Black Sea fleet of Russia were used against third countries during their stay in our territory. Mr. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the funds for the repair of the road to the village of Krivonosovka in the Zolitani region of the Cherka region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister to increase the amount of payment for primary schools in rural areas. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETIN to the Prime Minister regarding the gasification of the Kharkiv district’s population. Helen BONDARENKO to the Prime Minister for the payment of arrears from salary to the former employee of the Open Society “Lugansk Mining Administration”. Anatoly of Writers and Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on changing the methodology of recalculation of pensions towards increasing them for citizens who worked with particularly harmful and particularly difficult working conditions and initiating appropriate changes in pension legislation. HEADQUARTERS to the Prime Minister, Head of the CROA on the audit of the financial and economic activities of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine in January-November this year and on the company's use of the funds received from the open credit line totalling 2 billion euros. GREGORY OF CALETNIKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the construction of a water tank to provide drinking water to the population of the Cosatian region of the Winnitsky region. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, for the additional funding of the Scientific Research Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of the Donetsk State Medical University in connection with the creation of a deficit in the wage fund. Mr. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the protection of the rights of a foreign investor. Jury KRUKA to the Prime Minister for the consideration of the parliamentary request for the restoration of navigation on the Ukrainian part of the Danube River and for the implementation of the project “Duny-Black Sea Deepwater.” Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of public procurement of medical equipment and materials to ensure the treatment of persons suffering from a chronic deficiency. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister for the collection of funds for the meat-processing industry of the young cattle. Mr Mikoli BUDGYAN to the Prime Minister on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision in accordance with article 51 of the Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the situation that has arisen around the sanctions procedure at the Scottish Shareholder Company Svema of the Suma Region. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the inadmissibility of destroying historic sites that are connected to the life of Taras Shevchenk and are included in the “Golden Horseshoe” of Church. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister about the delay in allocating funds for the construction of a high-pressure pipeline to the villages of the Zguri district of Kiev and the gasification of the streets in the district center. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister for tax collection on residential coal from the families of the dead miners of the Mine “Miuska” city of Snowy Donetsk region. John YVANCHO to the Prime Minister on the need to build a school in the village of Velatitin in the district of Zakarpat. The Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors on the facts of the corruption of the Minister of Agrarian Policy in connection with the construction of the garage in Kiev and its involvement in its responsibility. [[NICKY, BANDURE, MAZUREN]] MICHAEL SETINE to the Prime Minister for the violation of legislation by the State Department of Medical and Medical Devices. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road to the villages of the province of Lubar. A group of deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for the health and life of Ukrainians, which resulted from the preservation of 17,000 tons of carbon waste in the territory of the Novorozdil State Mining and Chemical Company “SIRKA”. [[CYBUL, WAR, NAZALIK, AND OTHERS]] Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport, and Liaison concerning the construction of a bridge crossing through the Dnipro River in the city of Kremencucci. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economics, Minister of Justice, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Construction and Architecture, Kyiv City Head for the return to the budget of the city of Kiev 971 million dollars according to the decision of the judicial authorities. Oleg YUCHNOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the unwarranted application of the rules of tax legislation of the Berdyan Interstate Tax Inspectorate to the State Enterprise “Berdian Maritime Trade Port”. Anatolysa Rachánské v. Prime Minister, Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Minister of Finance, the Kiev City Head on Dissatisfaction with the request and commission of the Head of State to complete the memorial complex of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster until the 20th anniversary of the ČAES accident. Vassila NADRAGI to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the villages of the Great Vergunka and the Red Yar of the Luhansk region. Anatoly by ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the State Support of the Hersonian Agro-industry complex in connection with the adverse climate conditions that have caused the negative situation of the Swamps and their deaths in the area. Mr Michael BAUER Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of a school in the village of Magala Novoselické region of Cherniewec. John YVANCHO to the Prime Minister for the allocation of subsidies from the State budget for the preservation of the historical and historical cultural heritage of the city of Uzhgorod Zacarpatsk. Mr Juriya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Prosecutor General, Head of the Holding Foundation, on the implementation of the procedure for the restoration of the capacity of the subject of the entrepreneurial activity of the Open Shareholders Association “Cherkaske Hymvolocno”. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Prime Minister for the illegal release of Kozak from his post as Deputy Chief of State Inspectorate for the Protection and Protection, Use and Recreation of Forests. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economics, Justice, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the Fund of Maintenance on the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Code of Land, other laws through the textual articles of the State Budget. MICHELLE TO THE MINISTRY OFFICE ON THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION IN THE SCARPATIC AREA AND THE POSSIBLE REMOVAL OF THE NATIONAL ENTERPRISES OF THE poison chemical waste “Premix”. Alexander KYSELOVA and Valerija BORZOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports in connection with the improper financing of the Avantgard Sports Stadium in the Luhansk region. MICHELLE RUDIC to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko for the fulfilment of the requirements of Article 46 of the Constitution on the provision of a minimum disability pension and in the event of a loss of a breadwinner not less than the subsistence minimum. Anatolysa Rachánsk to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, Head of the State Tax Administration, Head of the Head of the Department for the Reduction of Medical Beds, the Destruction of the Allergy Department, the establishment of excessive prices for medical services and the supervision of financial activity in the Republic's Semashko and Kuybishev Hospital of Simferopol. MICHELLA TO the Attorney General regarding the abuse by officials of agricultural society with limited responsibility for “Werbian” in the Lower Syrian region of the Hersonian region in the spoiling of land and property. Alexander HODIMI to the Attorney General, Minister of Defense, on violations of legislation in the construction of housing for military personnel. SLABENKA to the Attorney General on the investigation of the actions of officials of the State Association “Volinlis” and the Wallin Forest Administration. Stepan GAVRISHA and Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Attorney-General on the prevention of political persecution and the violation of the constitutional principle of non-interference in the private life of citizens. Anatoly of DOMANS to the Attorney General, Minister of Defense, concerning the recalculation of pensions for officers and flag holders in reserve and resignation. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General regarding the dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Health’s response to the request for abuse of office by the chief physicians of the Orikhov District Hospital and the Meerna Hospital of the Zaporozhye Region. Eugene Filindash to the Attorney General on the rehabilitation of participants in the “Ukraine Without Kuchma” campaign. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General on the legality of discharge from the position of the Cotillian village head of the Kharkiv district of Bondarenko. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy, on the solution of the problems of farmers, on the compensation of the damage caused by the natural causes of the agricultural enterprises of Ternopolska. Stéphane HMARI to the Attorney General for bringing to justice officials of the State Tax Inspectorate of Mariupola for gross violation of the requirements of legislation, which led to a lack of funds from the Mariupal Metallurgical Combined. Mr. StanisławA LONG before the Attorney General, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for Systematic Abuses of Service and the Disruption of the Orphan Base by the Deputy Rural Head and Head of the District State Administration of the Chernigiv Region. ALLY ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General for improper consideration by the law enforcement authorities of Kyiv and the Lviv region of claims of crimes committed by Vartanyan. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General for the return of Ukraine to the Russian Navy's hydrography service on the Black Sea coast in the area from Cape Tarhankut to Cape Ayu Doug of lighthouses and light navigation signs. TO THE Attorney General’s office in charge of the state executive service of the Luboml district, Volinsk, for the criminal acts of Dobrinyuk. Helen BONDARENKO and Vladimir JAVORISKO to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the creation of an investigative and operational group of officials from the Attorney-General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to investigate the killings of young people in Winkin, whose parents, having failed to investigate the objective conduct of the investigation and the execution of fair sentences at the local level, joined together with the public organization “Fathers of the murdered children of Winnitzkin”. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney-General for the illegal seizure of land belonging to the municipal property of the Guto-Potov Rural Council and for the illegal business of the company “Rodomish Forestry APC”. LEVA BIRUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the law by the deputy of the Vishnev City Council of Stubukh and the improper response to the deputy’s appeal by the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the illegal removal of a child outside Ukraine. IN THE area of HMELNIQUE, it is composed of representatives of the authorities and law enforcement agencies. Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of legislation by the management of a limited-liability association called “Concern Naftaenergo” and a limited-liability agricultural society “Novoorskia agrarian company” in the process of renting the property of the agricultural society and the property rations of the inhabitants of the villages of the Region of Poltav. Group of Deputies to the Attorney General, the State Department of Internal Affairs, the Foro Village Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the legality of construction and road works on the coastline of the village of Foros, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Society “Agroservis”. [[HONEY, MOTHER, GORLOV]] VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General for the preservation of socially important sites in the Pecher region from the arbitrary barrier. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of legislation in granting permission to build a hotel on the street Sozmistczko in the city of Borispoli Kyiv district. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney-General on the legality of the economic and financial activities of the Suma National Agrarian University 2001-2004 and the causes of the artificial deficit of the University's collective salary for the period 2005-2008. Group of Deputies to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the BSC, the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, regarding violations of legislation and corruption by the management of the Kiivenergo share-building company during 2002-2004. [[FALLEN, FELDMAN, HOLIDAY]] Anatolia KUKOBI to the Attorney General about the situation with the Poltava Children’s Library. Alexia BABURINA to the Attorney General on the examination of the activities of the casino company Zaporezki Titano-Magnium. Oleg YUCHNOVSKI to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the Berdjan District Police Department concerning the Martin enterprise in the village of Dmitrovka in Berdjan region. John BASTRIGA to the Attorney General, Head of the National Bank for the Recovery of the Debt of the decommissioned Stock Exchange Agribusiness Bank “Ukraine” to the Berdian Education and Production Company “UTOS”. Vladimir MATWEYEV to the Attorney General on the illegal construction and violation of legislation, legal rights and freedoms of citizens. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Fuel and Energy concerning the indebtedness of the State Energy Company Centrenergo. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General on the legality of maintaining funds at the Yagodin Customs for finding a car that was imported into Ukraine as a humanitarian aid to a disabled person. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General on the reasons for delay in investigating the criminal case for the service negligence of the officials of the Mikolai City Culture Park and the rest of the Victory. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Holding Foundation on the groundless closure of Smilmolconserve in the Cherka region, leading businesses to bankruptcy and illegal dismissal of workers. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Defense, on information regarding violations by officials of the Dnipropetrova garrison of the South Operational Command of the order of taking up residence and granting accommodation to military personnel. Mr. Oleg TUGBOKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating the fact that the political activities of the head of the U.S. Regional Union “Freedom” have been hampered by terrorist actions. MICHELLE to the Attorney General regarding the abuse by officials of the Kirovograd Mesquikonka and TOV “High Energy Systems” in the rental of the “Heat Energy Centre” and the non-payment of wages. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the abuse of office and corruption by the management of the Open Shareholder Society, Saturn Science and Production, which has caused considerable damage to the state and damage to the interests of shareholders. [[TROPHIMENKO, SOVOLEV]] ALLY ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General for information on unlawful acts containing signs of crime by the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Pritica. Ms BICHKOVA to the Attorney General on the criminal investigation of infringements in relation to the “Ukrtatnafta” stock company Igora ŠURMI to the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine for the provision of information on the official clarification regarding the public information on the organization of the Secretariat of Tele bridge rehearsal between students and the President of Ukraine with the use of “darks” of the prepared issues, the organization of the selection of students and their material encouragement at the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy and the Lviv National University. Mr. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine for delaying the decision of the President of Ukraine to resign the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region of Racuk, who was denied two thirds of the votes of the deputies of the District Council, and whose actions show signs of corruption. Anatolia CHAINS to the Head of Public Administration on the basis of a significant expansion of the state administration of matters carried out by today’s management. Olga HINZBURG to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council for the appointment and retirement of a former employee of internal affairs in the town of Šostka. Larissa LARIZANKO to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing in Support of Children’s Talents, Skills, Gifts, Conditions for Development and Implementation. Alexander ABDULLIN to the minister of health for the care of a disabled person from childhood to illness associated with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the unwarranted refusal of the Ministry to treat a sufferer under a national treatment programme for hypophysic nanism. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the minister of defense for delaying the execution of the Lutsky District Court’s decision to pay the military pensioners cash compensation for the unreceivables of property when they were released from military service. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Minister of Education and Science in connection with the award of a computer class to the School of Public Education in the area of Zidomir. MICHELLE MELNIK to the Minister of Internal Affairs for information on the status of the criminal investigation against the Gorbán. JAROSLA KENJORA to the Minister of Education and Science on the solution of the problems of the Ukrainian Academy of Printing in Lviv. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the basis of a statement by the citizens of Lutka about the unlawful actions of individual leaders of the Vollin militia, the concealment of gross violations of the laws and the Constitution with signs of corruption and bribery. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Defense on the situation of housing security for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their families in 2005. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the State Tax Administration, for providing information on an alternative tax collection system without using an identification number. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Head of the State Foundation for the Abuse of Monopoly and the Excess of Holiday Prices for Merged Gas for Domestic Consumers by the “Scratching” company. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Ministry of Finance on the arrival of the budget for the gasification of the rural population in the NovoMoskov constituency No.38. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of calling on the Ivano-Frankov Regional Council to allocate funds for the repair of roads of local importance. BORISS HEADED to the Minister of Justice for the Service Investigation and Involvement of the Director of State Executive Services of the Volin district of Dobrinouk. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the restoration of the movement of the Graebinka, the South Railway Drab. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Ministry of Health regarding the allocation of cars “quick assistance” to the medical institutions of the cities of Nicopol and Marganza. MICHAYLA MELNIČUKA to the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of addressing members of the rural councils of the Novoseltsky region, Cherniewec region, regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of the underwater gas of Mamaliga, the Tarasovtsi. To the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Vladimir DEMOJIN, on the preservation of the integrity of the Kerchéne Institute of Marine Technology. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Ministry of Health on the reasons for the closure of the maternity home of the central district hospital of Poltava. MICHAELS SHERSHUNA AND VALLERY SAMOPLAV TO THE HEALTH MINISTRY FOR THE SETTING OF A SPECIFIC SUSPECTIVE CAR FOR THE BREEZNOVIUM CENTRAL HOSPITAL HOSPITAL. Teams of deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the delay in criminal investigation of numerous violations by former officials of the Ukrainian School of Public Education “Herson College”. [[TOMIC, MANCHULENKO]] MICHAYLA SETINE to the Ministry of Health for reasons of non-compliance with the Ministry’s decree “On the Approval of the List of Medical Products subject to State Registration in Ukraine”. [[re-registrations]] Mr. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Minister of Justice regarding State control over compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and laws, as well as the statute of the political party by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the telephone call to the village of Lipovice in the region of Rožnetów in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Ms. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for Internal Affairs on the steps taken by the authorities to open and prejudice the robbery attacks on the reception of the National Deputies in the premises of the Czernigów Community of Ukraine. Gennady RUDENKA to the Minister of Education and Science for the failure to implement the State’s “School Bus” programme in Mirrodski, Velikobogačany, Zinkowski, Kotelevski and Shisatski district of Poltava region. Tamara Proscuratou to the Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the violation of the rights of teaching staff in the Rakitnjan district of Kyiv region working in rural areas on the benefits and benefits provided by the Education Act. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Ministry of Health regarding the collective appeal of voters, the council of the veterans of the city of Nicopol and the public organization “Soldatian Mother”. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the transfer of the house to the religious community of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the parish of St. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Head of the Hmelnick district government regarding the gasification of the villages of Puklaka and Mala Bereženko Cemerovetsk district of Hmeljna district. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the Holding Foundation to ensure the legality of the procedure for the return to the State of the entire property complex of the rental company “Costantin factory of the name of the 13-shot workers”. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Ternopil District State Administration for the preservation of the memorial and artistic museum of Hrośtecký in Pochayev. Sergey SHEVCHUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the Department of State on the execution of penalties for the destruction of land and property of the former farm “40 River Yellow” of Shirokh region, Dnipropetrov region. Mikhayla STEPANOVA to the Kiev City Head for lack of response to the appeal regarding the illegal construction of a 22-story building on the streets of Petropavlovska, Zakharivska and Petropavlovski. VICTOR ANTEMUCA to the Head of the Donetsk district government in connection with the unsatisfactory provision of water to residents of the village of Dmitrovka, in the area of Donetsk. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the collection of the debt on the payroll of a citizen named Vorobjov of the Wilkovsky Regional Fishery Consumer Association of the Killi district. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKI to Kiev City Head, Prosecutor of Kiev City, Head of the Demmeine Foundation for the Law Enforcement of Privatization of the State Municipal Enterprise “Darnička market”, secrecy of information on violations of property rights in the district of the Darnitsky district of Kiev and violations of land legislation. Anatolia KOSLOVSKI to the Head of State Tax Administration to resolve the issue of the exclusion of Mikolai’s residential area from the service home. To the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Vladimir DEMOCHIN has drawn up general lists of voters who live or reside abroad. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Wynnick district administration for the opening of a preschool school in the village of Road Winnick. Panels of deputies to the Kiev City Head on ignoring Kyivrad and Kiev City Administration of Public Hearing Decisions “On the provision of the historical heritage and the natural environment of the city of Kiev”. [[LIVING, LIVING, DAVIMUKA]] Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Herson State Administration on the gasification of the village of Kalanczak in the Hersson region. Mr. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Grounds for a sharp increase in housing and utility tariffs in the city of Primice in the Chernigiv region. Alexander KYSELOVA to the Hungarian City Head for the reasons for failure in the city of the Regulations for the provision of central heating, cold and hot water, and water supply. Teams of deputies to the Head of the State Road Service on the shift to the Kyiv Road and the capital repair of the road to the museum of the Ukrainian artist Catherine Bilokur in the village of Bogdanovka Yagotin district. [[Y.B., COLONIARI, POLITICAL]] RUCA’S Jury to the Head of the National Bank for the Protection of Local Self - Government Valery BORZOVA to the Head of the Plain Authority, the Raven City Head, for the financing of the Centre for Pedagogical Rehabilitation and the social adaptation of children with special needs of the Paginac. TO THE Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the emergency boiler of Hodor High School No. 1. Alexander CARENKA to the Head of Staff of the Pension Fund on the eligibility of pensions and compensations for individual pensioners in the city of Raven. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Head of the Donetsk District Administration, Attorney General, on the liquidation of the debt on payment of salaries for August-November to employees of the coal company T.O. “Carbon” of the town of Shakhtarsk. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Head of the State Tax Administration regarding the non-admission of the State Enterprise “Study Building Plant 61 of the Communion”. HOLDIMIR KEY to the Head of the Regional District Administration of the Winnicke District on the reasons for failure to execute the court, regarding the illegal dismissal of the chief physician of the central district hospital. Vladimir Paka to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee on the relationship of executive power with the media in certain parts of the Kyiv region. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, Attorney General, on the liquidation of the debt on payment of salaries for January/May to the employees of TOV “Limanžilservis” of the city of Red Lyman. Left BIRUKA to the first deputy head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the violation of legislation by the head of the Novomikolai District State Administration of Penkovsky County. Jury CARMAZINA to the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Minister of Finance, on the implementation of the constitutional right of residents of certain villages in the Poznań and Alexandria regions of the region of Kirovograd to provide social security through financing from the budget for the construction of gas pipelines, the prevention of the destruction of villages and their entrepreneurial infrastructure. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the prosecutor of the Hersonian district for the purpose of providing the Office of the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region with unreliable information. Oleg BESPALOVA to the executive commitment of the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence to the violation of the rights of pensioners and certain other persons, and on the anti-constitutionality of article 38 of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006. Alexander CARENKA to the director of the Donetsk district thermal power plant in connection with the refusal to provide information on the location of an electric power plant in the area of electrical furnace equipment for the production of ferroplanes that could endanger the life and health of the inhabitants of the village. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the President of the National Television Company for the support of the TV project “Television Service of Mercy”. Victor TURMANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of enterprises in the bourgeois coal complex of Alexandria. Thus, honourable national deputies, 178 parliamentary inquiries have been made. According to factions: Communists 30, Ukrainian Regions 13, People's Party 12, Our Ukraine 13, Block Timoshenko 15, SPU 14, Ukrainian People's Party 11, SDPU 26, National Block 6, "Trust in the People" 7, "Reforms and Order" 8, "One Ukraine" 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs 3, National Movement of Ukraine 8, "Afterfractional" 9. We spent almost 45 minutes doing this. Now, let's move on to the presentations of authorized representatives of MPs and factions with statements, reports, queries. Sergey Sas is invited to speak from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, draws attention to a question that concerns a large part of the population, especially those living in rural areas, is the issue of subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development in the regions. Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers to implement articles 46 and 51 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act approved, for the current year, the list of projects financed in 2005 under State Budget subsidies to local budgets for the construction of pipelines and gasification of urban areas, particularly rural areas. And it's a list of socio-economic developments in the regions and prejudice measures. In fact, this involves the construction of schools, FAPs, potholes, plumbing, and so forth. For these purposes, the State budget provides more than 800 million dollars. How, however, can subsidies be discussed for local budgets when the year is up and the distribution of funds for these offices of the Ministers has not been fully implemented? I'm not talking about funding anymore. First of all, in the Kirovograd region, most of the listed items are funded by only 10 percent. Of the nine and a half million allocated to the area under article 46, one and a half million have been funded. In some areas funding did not begin at all. By the end of the year, there was a month left. The question is, When will they finance and when will the regions be built? What about the urban areas where low - pressure gas highways are being built and the high - and - middle - pressure highways from the budget are not being built? We see this situation in all regions of Ukraine. Despite the fact that the government, led by Yulia Volodymyrovina Timoshenko, has doubled the budget revenue over the months due to the destruction of shadow schemes, the real allocation of funds for the targets has been delayed. The position of Prime Minister Yehanurov, who said on one of the Ukrainian channels that the allocation of money for gasification of the village is to bury money in the ground. As an economist, he would appreciate it if he knew that each of the selected and developed gasifications of the money from the budget contributed to the development of 3.5 dollars of the population for low - pressure gas pipelines and the gasification of buildings. And all of these are jobs, orders for industry, new quality of life for rural people. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, insists on the timely implementation of the funding of the listed social programmes in scope and on the lists provided for by the State Budget of Ukraine and the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u3	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun is invited to the presentation, a faction of the People’s Party. Prepare Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u4	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The following year will be 20 years of planetary nuclear disaster on Chernobyl’s AES. Sadly, time does not cure its consequences. Even small doses of radiation seem to grow into moral amnesia. Because what can be explained by the statements made by Chernobyl experts recently from the rostrum of an international conference organized by MAGATE in Vienna? And they were saying that the magnitude of the tragedy in Ukraine is exaggerated, and they were worried about nothing, and the radiation seems to be gone, and people in the affected areas are kind of healthy. The question then arises: Has it not been in Ukraine that more than half a million people have died in an accident in CHAES, about which is the official statistics of the Ministry of Health? Our government officials, especially Minfin, apparently also believe in a foreign story about Chernobyl’s well - being in Ukraine. After all, if the total government budget expenditure of the Chernobyl programme was 10 percent in 19097, in 2006 the Kabin forecasted 2 percent of all budget expenditures for these programmes. The government proposes in article 71 of the State Budget that a series of articles of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster be stopped. What does it mean to quit, for example, 21 articles? This means that the 2 categories will no longer have the right to annual dissipation, to free medicine, to treatment in specialised stations, to a discount in the payment of residential services. Disposing of people who work in polluted areas of supplementation and compensation for clean food means causing a new wave of migration, for these, let alone scarce funds, today keep people in crowded places. And it's already a wild attempt to take away the people that Chernobyl has made disabled, the right compensation. Today, the government wants to ban the payment of long-term pensions to hard-working Chernobyl workers because few of the Chernobyl population are able to live to the age of 60. If the state is no longer able to heal the affected territories, let it at least take care of those God -forsaken people. The faction of the People's Party of Lithuania strongly opposes this cynical approach of government to the formation of the State Budget. We demand that full compliance be ensured with the obligations of the State provided for by the laws in force concerning affected black people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u5	Anatoly Rahansky, “Trust of the People” is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u6	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Eupatoria constituency, “Trust of the People”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence system, about 50,000 military personnel and their families are on the line to receive housing. To carry out the social protection tasks of military personnel and their families, the housing and barracks foundation was established in 1992 in the system of the Ministry of Housing and Building. Its composition included construction agencies, design institutes, BBBI factories, and other organizations. At that time, 103 people were in the building complex. 16,000 apartments were built. In recent years, the Ministry of Defence has unfortunately reduced the capacity of the building and apartment complex nearly 10 times. So there are 10,000 construction workers and 158 military personnel who have special building education and are professionals in their business. There's no equivalent for these builders. They are between 28 and 36 years old. This short - scale construction complex is now capable of building some 3,000 apartments a year, and 50,000 families of military personnel. It should be noted that the military’s financial provisions are based on the accounting activities of the organization where they are engaged in military service. However, the Ministry of Defence has decided to release these 158 military personnel, but to ensure social security in their release, article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel, as a result of reforming the armed forces of Ukraine and their families, is carried out at the expense of the State Budget, not at the expense of the financial and economic activities of the collectives where they work. These are 9 million dollars that are not budgeted in 2005 or project 2006. This could lead to the collapse of the Mini-Defense housing complex. Such measures should be carried out in a gradual and gradual manner. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Defence and the Committee of the Supreme Council and Ukraine on National Security and Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u7	Mikola Komar, “Ukraine” faction, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Bastris.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u8	Mikola Komar, faction of the Ukrainian Party. The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the “Regions of Ukraine” has stood firm and will defend the rights of citizens, including veterans of the Great Homeland War. We consider it our duty to pay attention to how prominently the authorities have forgotten the promises made at Maidan. President Yushchenko's candidate then promised that the benefits and pensions for veterans would increase and exceed the pace reached by the government of Yanukovic. But not a year later, the authorities illegally reduced the benefits. Thus, the President vetoed the Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, which provides for higher pensions for veterans. First by the hands of Timoshenko, now Pinzenika and Kirilenko, the current authorities oppose the efforts of the national deputies to increase the standard of living of pensioners and veterans. The main argument of authority is that there is an inappropriate increase in the amount of aid to the Budget Code. The laws that affect the formation of the budget’s expenditure should be officially published by the 15th of August, which precedes the planned year. According to the President, the citizens involved in the law have not received adequate social protection since January 1, 2006. The faction of the Party of the Regions is underscoring. The fact that the law was not signed and did not take effect on time is the responsibility of the President himself. For the first time, he vetoed this law on July 7 this year, which was until August 15th. Therefore, the reference of the Head of State to the non-compliance with the Budget Code makes no sense. Moreover, in his October 27th proposal, the President proposes to introduce this law into force as of January 1, 2007, instead of a phased introduction during 2006. The logic of Yuschenka’s actions was not understood, for it was his insistence on the proposal of the Supreme Council on July 7th that it adopted a step - by - step order. Now that the presidential elections have taken place, today’s authorities seem to forget about veterans. Because the vast majority of the veterans of the Great Native War live in the East and South of Ukraine and prefer the election of the President to another candidate. The faction of the Party of the Regions declares decisively “no” another attempt by the authorities to humiliate and rob our parents and grandparents. We call on all factions of Parliament to overcome the President's veto by amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, which stands in the order of the day session for tomorrow, December 1st. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u9	John Bastrig is invited by the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Prepare Michael Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u10	Statement by the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Economic developments in the social sphere in the fifth year, despite maintaining the trend of slow economic growth, indicate certain trends in stability, although the main areas of the economy still need increased attention and changes in approaches to addressing key development problems. In terms of time constraints, one of the few available tools for supporting economic growth is the State Budget, which is aimed at supporting domestic industry and entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, the Sixth Year State Budget project contains a series of fiscal norms that have a negative impact on enterprise development. This is a ban on the implementation of monetary accounts, the undifferentiated exclusion into the budget of part of the income of statutory organizations, the State’s share of the statutory fund, the limitation of the taxpayer’s right to a return on financial performance in the sixth year of the losses that occurred on January 1, fifth year, the advance payment of income tax on the results of the eleven months of the sixth year, and so on. The most unacceptable is the law of the project regarding the forced realization of land under privatized objects. Immediate adjustment requires VAT compensation mechanisms from the State Budget, tax regulations, and the abolition of discriminatory depreciation standards for essential assets purchased by 1 January of the fourth year. It is also necessary to implement, in the shortest possible time, compensation mechanisms for losses suffered by investors in free economic zones and technology parks. At present, the Sixth Year State Budget project lacks adequate financial support for business development. Part of the mechanical increase in the number of business subjects has passed. Today it is necessary to create appropriate conditions for the quality and efficient development of small and medium-sized businesses. That is why the Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs attaches great importance to the national enterprise development programme, which should provide conditions for the development of enterprise infrastructure and efficient business management and provide for the adoption of basic laws for entrepreneurs. Convinced that the increase in income from traditional government recipes is an extension of the tax base for lack of steps towards a real reduction in the tax burden on the real economy is unacceptable under unstable economic trends. The statement just announced also reflects the position of the affected Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Federation of Employers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u11	Michael Rodionov is invited from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Volodymyr the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u12	Rodionov, the Communist faction. A statement by the Communist faction on the illegal release of the Ukrainian national deputy, three calls, a Communist, a member of the NAN-correspondent of Ukraine, Droguntsov Sergey Ivanovich, from the post of head of the Council to study the productive forces of Ukraine. The ruling of the Academy of Sciences on July 6th of this year, signed by the President of the Academy of Sciences, was effectively removed from the post of head of the Council to study the productive forces of Ukraine, Mr. Doroguntsov Sergija Ivanovic. Understanding the illegality of its decision, a new decision by the President of the Republic of Ukraine is being taken in two months for pleasure in the paws of the Henprocurator’s protest. By this decree, Drogunzov is now dismissed from office of the Council of the Authority in connection with the election of his national deputy to Ukraine. So they're releasing Drogunzov seven years after the election of the national deputy. The question is: why is Ukraine's Law “On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine” so persistently avoided? We claim that the release is illegal. The Drogans didn't break the law, he worked on a free basis. His activities as Head of the Institute refer to scientific activity and his position as a scientific worker. This is permitted by law, and that is what the Constitutional Court of Ukraine refers to. The agency led by the Drogunts has no purpose for profit. Thus, the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to lead such an organization. That is, the Law on the Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies and its additions of July 8, this year cannot be the basis for the release of Doroguntsov. This is also confirmed by the fact that at least five Ukrainian national deputies are now serving as heads of the scientific institutions of NAN Ukraine. Among them are Yukhnowsky, Joulinsky, Toloczko, and others. How can we explain that the repression fell only on Droguntsov? The Communist faction sees the fact that Drogunzov has been relieved of his post as head of the RUPS as persecution for his Communist views and beliefs as political revenge and political terror. Regrettably, President Paton Boris Evgenovich of Ukraine took on the role of initiator and performer of this obscene act. The Communist faction strongly demands that the initiators and performers of this action, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine stop the illegal actions against Doroguntsev and immediately reinstate him in the post of head of the PRSP. We believe that the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which unfortunately remains the center of Bushmism, should finally be restored to freedom of scientific creativity, respectability and legality. The faction hopes for the understanding and support of all deputies, since they are scientific leaders of scientific institutions that are members of various factions of Parliament, and finally, they are the fate of Ukrainian science. Please consider this statement as my request to the President of the National Academy of Sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u13	Vladimir the Hare from the Faction of the SDPU is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u14	Vladimir Hare, faction of Social Democrats. [[United]] Dear fellow countrymen! Yesterday, November 29th, the Central Election Commission decided to register four groups of initiatives to hold the All-Ukrainian referendum initiated by the Social Democrats on Ukraine's accession to NATO and the EP. The citizens of Gorlovka, Mariupol, Melitopol, and Umani took advantage of their constitutional rights and allowed all Ukrainians to exercise the right to participate in the administration of the state. It should be noted that the organization of the All-Ukrainian referendum with an extremely important issue for Ukraine and the Ukrainians takes place in the context of information on the blockade. More than 60 meetings on the initiative of the All-U.S. referendum, held from November 5 to 11, which were held in full compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, are not mentioned in any honest news channel. That's the answer to the question whether there was an orange revolution in the country of freedom of speech, media freedom, or whether the government is filtering information space. To the honor of the 8 members of the CLTC, the registration of the initiative groups was voted by a critical number of votes. And only the members of the CBC, delegated by the People's Union of Our Ukraine, whose leaders promised to consult the people in Maydan on key issues of Ukrainian politics, tried to block this decision. However, there is no stopping the referendum. Thanks to him, Ukrainian mothers still have the opportunity to say whether they agree to send their sons into NATO military structures to exchange, to protect them from nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Does the Ukrainian people agree in the period 2006-2011 to pay more than 90 billion dollars to the budget for peacekeeping, the implementation of international military agreements and the implementation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces into NATO military standards? This is the kind of commitment that the President of Ukraine made to NATO by signing his own secret original discussion paper between Ukraine and NATO, which was handed over on June 27, 2005, by the Foreign Minister, Tarasuk Gansek, NATO. This document is hidden even from the Ukrainian national deputies, which is a violation of article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, according to which the Supreme Council itself determines the principles of foreign and domestic politics. SDPU(o) strongly believes that the NATO and EP referendum is not a pity in the back of Ukrainians, as the President of Ukraine recently said in Maydan, because it is NATO's entry into the back of Ukraine's economy that is the destruction with Russia of the military and industrial complex, the halting of one and a half thousand enterprises and 2 million unemployed, that is the transformation of a state with high-tech industries into a raw income of the West, that is a real threat to energy and economic crisis in general. The U.S.S.P.A. calls on the political forces, Ukrainian citizens to gather by September 1st 2005, as the CTC has defined, three million signatures in favour of a referendum to say their strong word, thereby finalizing for Ukraine its non-block status and not allowing our state to become a US ambassador in the geopolitical struggle against Russia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u15	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u16	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Over the past years, the consistent position of the factions of socialists and other deputies has helped to improve the social protection of educators, students, scientists. However, this trend is overshadowed by the draft Law on Ukraine's 2006 Budget. The Constitution of Ukraine requires free higher education in Ukraine. During this school year, the public procurement of first - day university students increased from 45 percent to 54 percent. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists that, over the next four years, all students in the day - to - day form of State education should complete the transition to State education. During the following school year, two thirds of the student population should be provided with State education. Skillful youths should be entitled to free higher education. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine also insists on the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of such a budget, which will ensure the continuation of the initial payment of debts under article 57 of the Education Act. Socialists demand that the planned ban on local budgets be lifted on the utility of rural educators. Extra payments to a rural teacher are not a benefit, but a protection of his social life because a teacher in the village is now put by the state in a beggarly position. Socialists demand that there be increased pay for textbooks for schools and vocational schools. A particularly complex situation with modern - day textbooks for a higher school that has already joined the Bologna Process. Our students are practically unsecured by such textbooks. As we know, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on social protection measures by the faculty of higher education. However, the draft budget does not provide for the execution of the decree, and the amount of payments is planned to be reduced by four. For 16 years, nearly 3,700 student dormitories have not been repaired and no new ones are being built. Nearly a third of them are in an emergency, largely covered by technical inspections. In Ukraine, the poorest student in Europe, the lowest provider of postgraduates. For the financing of the listed and other expenses are the execution of baskets from the sale of enterprises, the introduction of a state monopoly on the sale of alcohol, tobacco, customs, energy, and the use of funds from the shadow economy. Socialists are proposing their social agenda of breakthroughs in education and science, which will allow the sector to be removed from a deep crisis, to save the state from complete degradation. We actually have budget surplus. The government saves on social expenses. This is an unstated approach, for the future has a state that cares about education and science. Another world practice does not know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u17	Viacheslav Koval of the National Movement of Ukraine is invited to attend. Prepare Michael Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u18	Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The People's Movement of Ukraine has been authorized to announce a statement by the 16th All-U.S. National Movement of Ukraine regarding the recognition of UN-OPA veterans of other totalitarian regimes in the 20th century by participants in the national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence. The restoration of the historical truth of the national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people during the 20th century for the liberation of the native country of Ukraine from colonial dependence and the establishment of the independent assembly of the Ukrainian State, the restoration of historical justice in relation to its participants, has been and remains one of the programming principles of the Movement. This problem has become even more relevant now that there is an active process of forming a Ukrainian political nation, whose logical development is simply impossible without understanding between veterans, and this is an objective requirement of time. In the countries of the European Union: Germany, Spain, Poland, and similar problems have already been solved by granting equal rights and social security to veterans of World War II and civil wars. Finally, in the world today, not only are citizens of one nation, who were on different sides of the barricade, but also the entire state. Unfortunately, in Ukraine, as a result of the fierce resistance of communists, the indifference of the centrists, the lack of coordination among the right-wing forces over the decades failed to pass the relevant law in Parliament, the work of the temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the similar government commission, created to remove issues related to the evaluation of the activities of the UN-OPA, has been paralyzed. The National Movement of Ukraine demands that the current session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider a bill on the recognition of UN-UPA veterans, other fighters with a totalitarian regime in the 20th century, participants in the national-liberal struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence. That is, to determine their historical status; to anticipate the allocation of funds in the State budget for 2006 to address the social problems of national-liberal veterans; to issue a mass circulation of UN-UPA documents; to State authorities to create special exhibitions from all aspects of the 20th century history of the free struggle of the Ukrainian people in the historical and country-based museums of Ukraine; and to the Ukrainian capital city of Kiev in the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. It is legislative to establish the definition, marking the significant events and memorable dates of the 20th century national-liberal contests as decisive factors in solving the problem of overcoming the effects of imperial politics, fuelling internal-Ukraine conflicts and restoring historical justice and, in a broader sense, ensuring the unity of the nation as a guarantee of its future. The National Movement of Ukraine reminds us, the Ministry of Justice, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine should finally withdraw from the registration of anti-government, anti-Ukrainean organizations. The Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian Parliamentarians, should necessarily address this issue in the Council of Europe, because fascism is condemned and red lives on. Glory to Ukraine! Glory be to her heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u19	Michael Bauer, from the National Block, is invited to the presentation. Is there a Mikhail Bauer? Prepare Anton Ruzicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The village dies, it's forgotten, it's barely a social sphere. They're the ones from the peasants during my circuit work. Because of the rapid rise in energy prices, material and technical resources have been lost in rural production, cattle and birds are severely reduced, meat and milk production are in an extremely neglected state. Because of the lack of working costs over the last 10 years, the tractor park, equipment and equipment has not been restored, so manual labour costs have increased dramatically, resulting in an increase in the cost of production. The meager state support of a domestic producer and the presence of a large number of smuggled low-quality agriculture has led to the disadvantage of producing it in our country. It is indignant to the farmers that agricultural production has become unattractive and wasteful. Almost 80% of agriculture enterprises in every region of the Chernivecki region are not profitable today. This is all the result of the distortion of agricultural prices and the residual financing of the sector. This is a brief list of the troubles that the village is experiencing today. Thus, farm managers demand that the state: first, the formation of a projected price policy in agriculture. Second, the introduction of a guaranteed government order for the purchase of agricultural products into the country’s reserves. Third, the installation of a mandatory grant, at least 800 ounces per hectare of arable land, each of the branches of the country. Fourth, form a model of a modern self - sufficient village that includes schools, cultural buildings, medical clinics, and other social facilities. We need to know clearly what kind of village we want to see today. We need to understand that today the main criterion for assessing the activities of national deputies is that our words are consistent with the goals we set for ourselves, the ability to carry out our commitments to the electorate, to defend their interests, and the ability to influence the improvement of the situation in the country. We have to do everything we can to make the people of the village live much better. If we don't do it, others will do it for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u21	Anton Ruzicki, “Our Ukraine”. Please, your performance. Prepare Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. Anton Ruzicki, Party of the “Christian-Democratic Union”, is a member of the MP’s “National Union of Ukraine”. A statement. The parliamentary faction of the Party “Our Ukraine People’s Union” claims that new benefits are unacceptable for Ukraine’s current and former national deputies. In particular, we demand that unwarranted pensions be abolished for national MPs who are burdening the State budget. The Act on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine to Increase Deputies, the Supreme Council approved October 6th this year. It was prepared by a group of national deputies of today’s vocation, and it was initiated by the government of the Association of National Deputies of Ukraine, which are the main lobbyists for the implementation of such benefits. And this is at the same time that the vast majority of Ukrainian pensioners receive pensions of several hundred dollars. Neglecting the painful problems of every Ukrainian, in particular in terms of pensions, shows how far away these individual woes are from their fellow citizens. It is a pity that the loss of moral right to represent one’s own people does not result in the loss of legal grounds for parliamentary activity. The comments of the President of Ukraine, who came to the Supreme Council, state that the provisions of the adopted law do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. The introduction of approved changes will significantly increase the budget for the retirement of national deputies. So if 20.7 million dollars were allocated for this in 2005, by 2006, as much as 124.1 million dollars. Under such circumstances, the implementation of the law can lead to a balanced state budget, violating the requirements of part three of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. This will lead to the underfunding of the very needed socio-economic development programmes of the state. Moreover, the bill does not correspond at all to article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. Therefore, the parliamentary faction of the Party "The People's Union "Our Ukraine" requires the repeal of the Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine as soon as possible. Ukrainians need nationals, not nationals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u23	Valérie Assadchev is invited to speak from the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare Sergey Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u24	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Statement by the Ukrainian People’s Party The Ukrainian People's Party re-adopted the 2006 budget as a year ago by expressing its concern about the economic policy that is being implemented through the country's main financial document. The Ukrainian National Party has always stood up for and will defend the interests of the domestic producer, the development of its own production, and the internal market. That is why we welcomed and supported the policies of the President of Ukraine regarding Ukraine's entry into the WTO. The WTO is the largest capitalised, civilized market in the world that opens up new economic opportunities and prospects for Ukraine. In doing so, the WTO does not deny the development and support of the national sectors of the economy that we see in the WTO countries themselves. Why, then, does the government, when opening import borders, not only intend to protect a domestic producer but openly declare his destruction? This is particularly true of the example of an agro-industry complex, supporting the real manufacturing sector, in which it declined compared to the period when we were still closed from importing the border. And if the 2005 budget created serious problems for industrial production, small and medium - size business, the 2006 budget aims to destroy the agricultural sector. The Ukrainian National Party is concerned about the increase in budget deficits and, therefore, about the continuation of the policy of eating its own assets. We've already eaten the carnage, what's next? The State's strategy should be to invest effectively the funds derived from the sale of state assets in the development of the most efficient and profitable sectors of the economy, science, the introduction of new technologies, that is, the creation of new assets. Eating policy is not promising, it is a policy of one year of survival. At the same time, we argue that systemic reforms are needed to reduce the budget deficit, because if we continue to feed a repressive device that remains in the hands of the old authorities, only in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 50 000. higher rank, not counting the generals, no economy is going to feed this, and the deficit is not going to help. The reform of local self - government is also part of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Systemic Reform. In recent years, not only have local governments not only acquired the status of European communities, as stated in the Charter on Local Self-Government, ratified by the Supreme Council, but they have actually turned into State-owned allowances as cash on social payments. Systemics include wage reform, and others. Indeed, it can be said that to date the government does not solve problems but merely finance them. The Ukrainian National Party is concerned about the anti - Ukrainian budget. Actually cancelled Ukrainian language development programs, historical and cultural heritage. The Crimean Light – the only Ukrainian newspaper in Crimea – is forgotten. Forgotten Taras with Canev and the Taras Church This statement by the Ukrainian People’s Party points out that the 2006 budget has found no solution to the problems that have occurred over the years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u25	Sergey Sobolev of the Reform and Order Party is invited to the presentation. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u26	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the political party “Reforms and Orders” on the situation in the city of Vinnica. On November 25, 2005, an unprecedented event took place in the Winnitsk City Council, where despite the approval of the Lenin District Court of Vinnica, which prohibited any action in the Winnitsk City Council to remove the executive responsibility of the head of Winnitzak and the re-election of the deputy of the city head, the Secretary of the City of Winnica, a number of members of the City Council in breach of the demands of the court and the procedures for the re-election of the deputy of the city's head, the Secretary of the City Council acted in favour of the replacement of the city's head, the Secretary of the City Council of Winnic, in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, which obliges everyone to abide and enforce the decisions of the courts and legislation of Ukraine. The Reform and Order faction states that in the last nine months the rights of Ukrainian citizens, members of the territorial community, to have a legally elected city head and members of the city council instead of those who broke out have been severely violated in Winnica. The Winnitz City Council did not appoint a 30-day term in the law, and it did not hold the 130-day election of the city's head. Instead, on November 25, 2005, in an unprecedented attempt to destabilize the social and political situation in the city and to abuse the law in an effort to remove the city’s responsibilities. A number of MPs of the City Council, following instructions from the curators of Kiev, did not stop breaking the law even when the court’s approval was announced in the hall, which prohibited such acts. The illegal, presumptuous violation of the city’s executive power continued even after a government executive arrived in the City Council Hall and ordered the immediate enforcement of the court’s decision. The “Reforms and Orders” faction sees the actions of individual MPs of the Winnitsk City Council as an attempt to disinherit the situation in the city and calls on the President to ensure the constitutional right of the inhabitants of Winnitz and to oblige the relevant persons to report on the reasons for the violation of the law, calls on the Attorney General of Ukraine to immediately verify the facts of the violation of the Constitution and of the laws of Ukraine by individual MPs of the Vinnitsk City Council and to bring the guilty to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! A number of national deputies — Shurma, Solomatin, Puzakov, and Melniczuk — asked for permission to speak in response to parliamentary requests. All the documents they've drawn up, but let's make sure that we continue to do this within 45 minutes as it's taken to the speech, because I'm convinced that every MP is not satisfied with the answer, mostly to the MP's questions he's sending. And this has become a kind of extra performance. Let's make sure that this is the last time we do it today. We're already working an hour of 25 instead of 45 minutes. Igor Šurma, prepare Solomonine. You don't? Then get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Adequate to the conclusion of the analysis of the quality of job testing and the rationale for the proposals of the Ternopil district anti-tuberculosis dispenser State expert on working conditions listed, namely the Phthisiatr and the Phthisiatr, the child doctor considers it necessary to include in list 2 the production of jobs, occupations, jobs with harmful working conditions. Accordingly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with the Ministry of Health, developed a corresponding draft decree for the Cabinet of Ministers, which went to the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance. This proposal was not supported by the absence of real sources of expenditure. There is no higher form of cynicism, no attention to the health of the new authorities. And 160 million dollars in salary raises, as the President said about his makey ministers: “Money has been found” and the Press Secretary has 18,000 wages and what does a surgeon have? What does a Phthiatar have? What is reform today? And it's not! Because the “Our Ukraine” faction with Viktor Yushchenk’s head at that time successfully passed the Law on “On Stately Compulsory Social Health Insurance” twice. Victor Andryovich, I can only turn to you from this rostrum. As an opponent, I always try to criticize you, and today I want to ask you honestly. Dear Mr. President of Ukraine, I'm simply asking you to apologize to doctors, nurses and nurses. You said in Maidan that corruption starts in the doctor's office. This can be said only by this person who is being treated in Ukraine, whose children are born in Ukraine; and by someone who gives bribes. I don't think you were among those people who could talk about such corruption. Mr. President, get your faction to vote in favour of the Act “On Stately Compulsory Social Health Insurance”! And, Mr. President, take those liars away from you because they made you lie to me again: 57 percent of the pay raise to the medical community is a lie, no one got it! Intern doctors are working today without pay at all. And your salary increase leads to fewer jobs. And the PNB will never address health issues, because ex-secretary Poshenko is not being treated in Ukraine -- he's going to Germany. And, Mr. President, if you want medicine to be in your sight, there is little funding -- make the faction vote for medical laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u29	Vladimir Puzakov is invited to attend. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u30	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The anniversary of the red coup once again showed total national disappointment with the new power, like the morning mist, of the orange dunce. The payment to the people has become too difficult. Constantly ridiculous intrigues among the authorities ’ elite, criminal failure to fulfill the promises of the field, injustice and irresponsibility, job cuts, the cost of medicine, food, and unsurpassed lies. In the morning, the authorities promise one thing and after lunch another. And in the end, people get the sublime lie of power, both in the higher echelons and in the lower ones. I've made dozens of parliamentary inquiries, like for example. To the Minister of Education, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Cabinet of Ministers, etc. The answer was received, but the result was limited. The local authorities do not even notice that the answer to the minister’s signature must be fulfilled. For example, at the signature of the former Minister of Education Kremen, the answer is that in 2004, under the funding of the State’s School Bus program, rural schools will be provided with buses. But the Yakimiv School of the same area that I wrote about lost the bus, and the children again walk miles, although nearly 120,000 dollars were allocated for the purchase of the bus. But this was quickly used by the local authorities, led by the socialist of Heaven, instead of getting a bus for school, they hire the old two buses that served their term, and in fact they cannot transport people, the more children, pay money and report on the implementation of the school bus program. It's not the execution of the program, it's just the redundancy of government funds. Because of the same costs, a new bus could be purchased, but the problem is that the local authorities seem not to be concerned. The same thing happened to the promised computer class at Yakimow School. At the request of the Cabinet of Ministers for the opening of a post office in the village of Novozniessen, the administration reported: “All done”. But there was no plan to open that compartment. And so constant receipts and lies. Therefore, I ask that you do not leave my questions answered by the district administration without consideration, and I ask that you give me the answers for them, and I ask you to count them as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Yehanurov of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u31	Thank you. Michaela Melniczuk is invited to attend. Although, Mikhail Vasilovich, I've read everything here. On the contrary, the prosecution responded to your request, returned the case, and was studying it. So please, this is the last time we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u32	Okay. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to tell you that, in fact, the answer has been received, but I want to say that after this answer nothing is done for a month at all. [[village of Kozino Mironov district of Kyiv region]] The point is that as far as the inactivity of the district attorney’s office, the district attorney’s office, the general prosecutor’s office is concerned. In the village of Kozino, the manager, who realized that he was under the protection of the prosecutor's office, filed with the people who had appealed for his abuse and theft of property for 460,000, had brought these complainants to trial. I'd say anything if I hadn't been a mother to those people if I hadn't been a grandmother who worked for 50 years in a farm that is now 92 years old. She came to Kiev as a national MP to protect her because she had to pay Mr. Gniedenka 5,000 dollars. And she doesn't have bread. He gave it to her on his own without the consent of the landowner, or we will speak to the owner of the land, set her land within a mile of the village. And today neither the Moroccan prosecutor's office nor the Kiev authorities can ultimately recreate the truth in order for people to realize that there is power, that there are law enforcement authorities. That with Piscoon, with Medvedzk, everything is the Attorney General's office, it's a print of the answer from the place. And the prosecutor of the Mironov district didn't even go to the scene in four months of my complaint. That's why I'm here. I'm in the rostrum today. And if we, Vladimir Mikhailovich, gather all the appeals of deputies as far as we can, we need a month for each of us to act as a disgrace to the MPs, as they don't pay attention to how prosecutors print, how the district administrations print, the district administrations. In the Novoselica region of Chernivetsec, there was an answer to the MP, acknowledging that the party was a party of aggression. That's what they're saying! Do you understand? And that's why the MP has to get out of this rostrum and turn around. I ask again, my speech, my attention to the General Prosecutor's Office to the village of Kozino Mironovsky district, I want the Attorney General to answer me whether there is a violation or not, and that will be the point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions have been completed. With regard to the proposals, the comments, the statements made in the presentations, I ask that you make appropriate instructions to the central authorities of the executive branch. I think your Honorable colleagues, that's enough for an hour and a half. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, well, you can't go any further. Just a minute. That's enough. Dear colleagues. What, what? But you can't. It's been about an hour and a half. Vladimir Alexandrovich, I can't. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, yesterday we decided to announce elections to the Autonomous Republic, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local authorities of self-government. By doing so, we may have put an end to discussions about distinctions, choices, and so forth. Today we need to adopt amendments to the law on elections to the local authorities so that the Central Election Commission can properly organize the work. This document is based on proposals made by MPs and factions that were handed out on November 14 to factions. Yesterday we finally agreed on the text, the text of the draft law, so today we are asked to put this issue into the agenda, and then immediately take the decision, assigning the legal administration and the committee on state-building issues, the local self-government to reconsider and clarify the law in technical terms. We're looking at, let's say there's a little bit of, let's say, an editorial on page 32. I'd like to make a record of that. Therefore, I would like your attention, my fellow Members, to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8509, of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Please vote. [[11:36:21]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, taking into account the commission of the committee and the working group to conduct a technical legal, so to speak, the introduction to the condition of the draft law, e.g. on page 32. I'm voting on the adoption of the law, the draft law as a whole. They've already done it, that's all. 8509 as a matter of law. Please vote. I said, page 32. Take it easy. We'll work this way forever. Please. [[11:37:04]] For 266 The law is passed. For reasons of vote, please do not scream for just three minutes. It was possible for everyone to make their own adjustments and additions. I, my esteemed colleagues, did not distribute it this morning, but I distributed it to 14 more. Please, Babourin, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u34	Matthew's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u35	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Respectable colleagues. I understand we've been given this bill by 14 numbers. But that bill we got today, we got it this morning. And at least we should have seen what was going on. So I'm reading a perfect 20-1 point. Requirement for members of the electoral commission. The electoral commission cannot include candidates for the deputies, and so on, the head, the deputy head, the secretary of the electoral commission of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and at least one third of the members of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should have higher education. Is that the first question? Are we going to recruit, say, people like that there or not? Second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u36	Just a minute. I'll give you an answer right away. I'll give you an answer. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the commission operates on a permanent basis and is already established according to law. That's where the criteria are needed. So there's no question. The second question is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u37	Next question. On page 18, it is said that the distribution of executive positions in the district election committee is done through drawing. Those members of the commission who correspond to paragraphs five, eight, nine take the drawing. Presence is appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u38	This is what we have brought into line with the law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”. We cannot create two standards that will be one for the election of Ukraine’s national deputies and the other for the local elections. So we need one system, one approach that's been voted on, a decision is made. So it's all done. Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u39	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u40	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u41	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Regions, Zaporozhye region. By sharing the concerns of my colleague who spoke before this, I appeal to him and to all of us. Today, there is a desire to expand the so-called local council elections and the Supreme Council. We need to be careful about what's behind this. That is why we are about to overthrow the elections in general, so we must not react in any way, we must make sure that the law prevails and that the elections take place both at the local level and in the Supreme Council. So if something's missing, it's still technical and tactical. The main thing behind them is the law as a whole and the elections as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u42	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u43	Respectable colleagues, respectable fellow citizens! I think today and yesterday the Supreme Council has made two normal decisions. First, we decided yesterday that the local council elections would be held together with the elections to the Supreme Council. This has stabilized the social and political situation and given a clear answer because more than 300 deputies have voted. All the political forces, in practice, said that the elections should take place as always, along with the elections to the Supreme Council. Second, today we have voted with you on normal legislative changes that have adapted legislation on elections to local councils of village, rural and urban heads to the legislation that exists by election to the Supreme Council. That is why today we have voted normal and therefore the members of the Lithuanian People's Council have voted in favour. Because we believe that such a decision is a good way to put stability into the electoral marathon that has begun. It's our responsibility, our legislation, and we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. There's a demand for factions to say. Please show by factions. Results: Communist faction 55, Ukrainian People's Party – 50, National Party – 38, Our Ukraine – 6, Block Timoshenko – 1, SPU – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 11, SDPU(o) – 15, National Block – 19, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 2, “One Ukraine” – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, non-fractional – 15. I wanted to point out, my dear colleagues, yesterday we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council, there was no objection, everyone agreed that the decision should be taken. This was the unanimous position of the Conciliation Council. Yes, dear colleagues, what, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? The law has been passed. Dear colleagues, what's the procedure? I beg you, let's keep working, dear fellows! A draft Law on Securities and Stock Markets is being announced for consideration. It is proposed to review the law: for the report, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, for the report, within three minutes, discussion and decision-making are written here for 10 minutes, at least 15 minutes. No objections? None. The report invites the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let us work without interruption, because we have taken a lot of time to ask the question “Variance”. No warning? Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act is proposed. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act is to improve the basic legislation on securities, taking into account the trends in the development of the stock market. The bill is intended to introduce the Ukrainian Securities and Exchange Act in accordance with the European legislation of the Ukrainian Civil and Economic Codes, which became effective in 2004. The draft Law has been drafted with the participation of more than 30 experts — representatives of professional market participants in securities, scientists, representatives of the Supreme Council, ministries and authorities. The bill foresees: an expanded list of financial instruments – mortgage certificates, real estate certificates of the Fund that will be processed in the securities market. For the time being, 11 types of securities are offered. The law clearly defines the classification of Ukrainian securities by category and type. The law currently does not contain such a classification. It regulates the issue of the creation and transfer of securities, the enforcement of securities, and at present the settlement of the matter is dispersed by several legislative acts containing conflicting rules. Article 6 of the bill expands the list of services provided by professional participants in the stock market. Arrangements are being made for the management of securities that traders may make with securities. This will make it possible to increase the efficiency of investing in citizens' financial resources and businesses, thereby reducing investment risks for potential investors. The requirements for existing professional market participants are increasing, making such participants more reliable and competitive compared to foreign financial institutions. The project will ensure that issuers comply with the requirements of the securities credit procedure and will therefore contribute to the development of market trade in Ukraine, which will ensure transparent pricing and prevent the laundering of assets of domestic enterprises, and increase the real value of assets of enterprises that are relevant in connection with the start-up of a non-state pension scheme. The bill foresees that only stock markets exist as organizers of securities trade. The project ensures transparency and liquidity of the stock market through the introduction of a disclosure system that provides, unlike the law in force, for the publication of the following information. First, about the stockholders over nine. 10 percent of the credit fund, information on additional securities, whose nominal value exceeds 25 percent of statutory capital. If this bill is not adopted, there is a threat that Ukrainian securities will be withdrawn and placed in circulation outside Ukraine. International financial institutions will absorb participants and domestic stock market infrastructure, and citizens will lose access to Ukraine’s stock market. The draft law on securities and the stock market is supported by the Main Scientific and Expert Administration of the Apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u46	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u47	Those observations that are expressed by the Scientific and Scientific Administration will be taken into account in the finalization of the law to the second reading. The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the proposed bill at its meeting and recommended that it be adopted in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u48	Dear colleagues. If you have any questions, please sign up to the chairman of the committee. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Please. Anatoly Nastawayko, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u50	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u51	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, as Ukrainian national deputies, we are approached by a great many voters with complaints that have valuable papers, and they never receive anything from those valuable papers. Practically, the Securities and Stock Market Commission does not influence this process. Yes, please tell me, then, who is this bill for, or will the law be for? For our people, simple, 95 percent of them don't own anything, or for a bunch of rich people? That's the first one. And the second question. The Securities and Stock Exchange Act is now in force, and you are proposing securities and stock markets. Well, what's the big difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the second question. The first was the narrowing of the term “fund market”, and here this law regulates the broader simens of the market – the entire stock market. Indeed, we are approached by many and not only by national MPs, but also by Ukrainian citizens regarding the payment of dividends regarding the risk of losing these shares. Because I can say today that there are these stable groups that are doing this, I would say not very good things in this market, and there is a threat. And, first of all, this situation is due to the fact that today the legislation that regulates this sector of the economy is quite imperfect. In 1991, the Law “On Economic Societies ” was in force. This law, which we are adopting today, goes to replace the law in 1991. Realisms are much bigger today, much more problems that need to be settled so that from us, even from the same commission, the individual official is less dependent on making decisions so that he can, his conclusions and decisions are based on the law. And we've done our best in this law, which extends the rights of citizens, the rights of organizations, provides for the structure of securities, describes the role of the stock market and the stock market as a whole, establishes the responsibility of all executive authorities. And this law, we hope, will be the Act of Shareholders tomorrow. The next is the Depositary System Act. In creating a system that regulates all relationships in all sectors of the stock market, it will be possible to talk about the real protection and responsibility of each body that regulates this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u53	Drought, “Regions, please. Is it? Please, Aunt Drought. Vitaly Shibko, please, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I still want to clarify your understanding of this bill. Is this going to be a profitable business or a non-profit? Can you give me a clear answer? Because it says here it's going to be a stock company. Shareholders' company, you know, it's a profitable enterprise. At the same time, the law itself says that this is an unprofitable union. So we have to clearly figure out what the possibilities here are in this union. That's the first question. And the second. You don't share what securities are today. So you think that's enough, as stated in the Civil Code of Ukraine, which are kind of securities, and you're referring to the Civil Code, do you really think that the name of these papers should be clarified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u55	So I realized that the first question was about the stock market. Well, we come from the fact that the stock market is formed by an organization that is the founder who chooses the organizational form of ownership itself. But the stock market does not aim to make a profit. All the profits it makes are directed towards the development of the stock market itself. As to the second question. In this law, with the involvement of scientists, experts from national MPs, we have classified securities, described them. Laws on mortgage bonds will continue. About the real estate fund. Needs a legislative framework for further movement in this direction. See, today 75 percent of the country’s GDP is produced by stockholders, such as companies or companies in the form of stockholders. And today this least regulated sector of the economy. It's a corporate form of property. And this array of documents, which is now in Parliament, we hope to understand with the people's deputies, will allow much to move forward, and this is the competitiveness of our economy. If these forms of property are not settled, they will have numerous problems, it is difficult to compete inside and outside Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u56	Yes, thank you very much. Time's up. Yes, Dmitri Saints of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, your attention is given to bill 7818 on securities in the stock market. I'm very sorry to say that on the part of the Supreme Council, the government is not paying enough attention to such an important sector of the additional economy as the stock market. The evidence is that the current law has been in operation for almost 14 years, although the environment and the economic environment have changed, the economy of Ukraine, and the principles that have been established for 14 years are unfortunately working today. That is why this bill is primarily aimed at bringing antiquated norms into line with the development of the stock market, the existing regulatory framework and the Civil Code in 1991. He introduces a series of new concepts. This is the notion of insider information, writing, delinquentism, the notion of professional activity in the stock market, and the details of this professional activity. It is important to have articles on unscrupulous emissions, the placement of securities by foreign issuers in Ukraine and Ukrainian issuers outside Ukraine and beyond. I mean, this law, once again, is extremely important. In discussing the draft law at the committee meeting, it was noted that the bill regulates the relations that occur when securities are placed in circulation and the conduct of professional activities in the stock market. But just like any normative act of this nature, there are a number of differences in regulations that are mutually and with the rule of law in force. But given that this bill is a framework, and, indeed, a necessary normative act, the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting decided to recommend the bill as a basis for adoption. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please give me the names of the national deputies who are registered. Vladimir Levcun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u59	Vladimir Levcun, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, radio audiences, and television audiences! This draft of the Securities and Stock Market Act provides an opportunity to significantly improve the regulation of the circulation of securities. I'm positive. It clearly defines the types of securities, the characteristics of their issuance and circulation, defines insider information and ensures its confidentiality, prevents the reconciliation of different types of professional activities in the stock market, deregulation of the activities of participants in the stock market by regulating the powers of self-regulation organizations. At the same time, part one of the first article 22 of the draft and the amendments to article 360 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters proposes that the stock exchange should be formed as a stockholder’s company, a limited liability society, and a subsidiary. Such a stock exchange would be appropriate, not as a household, but as a non - entrepreneurial society whose purpose, according to article 85 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, is not to receive income for its next redistribution. This is primarily due to the fact that the purpose of stock markets is to promote the organization of securities trade rather than profit. Moreover, such association can be recognized as a self - regulated organization required in this part, since, according to article 48 of the project, a self - regulated organization is an unprofitable union. At the same time, the negative is also disagreement with some of the laws of Ukraine. The secondary market activity is not settled. The issue of government bonds on the forerunner can contribute to corruption. The definition of the stock market as a commercial organization may have a bad effect on the proper functioning of the securities market. But as a whole, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko for putting order in the stock market with securities, and it believes that the bill can be supported by taking note of the comments noted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u61	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to adopt this law in the first reading and the second reading to rework it, because by examining the situation in the Ukrainian securities market, we can clearly say that the market is not working. And not only does it work because we have an unstable political situation in recent years, but it works because we have an imperfect law that regulates the market for securities. By saying that for more than 10 years, legislation had not improved, and the first basic law had been passed and had only the characteristics of the law and did not clearly regulate all procedures and the circulation of the securities market. We are obliged to adopt a law in the near future this year. The experience of neighbouring nations, including the need to walk, the Russian Federation, tells us that as soon as the securities legislation was improved, the market for securities from abroad increased more than five times during the following year. This, on the one hand, will allow our businesses to invest not only in credit to finance their hardware upgrade procedures but, on the other hand, to make Ukraine much richer. Thus, the increase in the value of shares and the general market of the state’s securities raises the cost of not only assets but also enriches the state as a whole. I think we can take all the comments into account in the second reading and adopt this law this year. I am convinced that the adoption of this law, especially in the part that will oblige owners who own more than 10 percent of the shares, to disclose the entire host, will allow order with the shadow circle, both capital and income, and income distribution. We'll know who in our country owns what. Then we can be more effective in defending national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u62	Mikola Shershun, Alexander Tkalenko next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u63	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the subject matter of the bill seems to be quite remote from the pressing problems of society, but the issue of resolving relations in the stock market and in the securities market is not less important than the problems of shaping and maintaining social standards and social guarantees. Because the specificity of the processes and the characteristics of their flow into the stock market and the securities market is quite indicative. Especially when it comes to the culture of economic operations and the integration of Ukraine's economic sphere into the world economy, which is very important for the development of Ukraine's economy as a whole. It is the stock market that is increasing the volume of trade processes in the world. And trade is a leading factor that contributes to economic development in general and market relations in particular. To tell you, dear colleagues, that both the economic sphere and the internal market in Ukraine need the fastest major transformation, there is no need. And you also know very well that any transformation of structure starts with order. And we, as representatives of the Lithuanian People's Party, believe that this bill will help to set the necessary order in the Ukrainian stock market. That is why we consider it appropriate to support the bill in the first reading. Then, after making changes to him and taking into account comments and suggestions, he accepted as a law as a whole. Finally, we believe that a similar bill is only a small part of the necessary laws to help regulate the economic sphere of Ukraine. Because without the stability of Ukraine's economy, talking about the development of the social sphere, the maintenance and regeneration of culture, the development of education and education in decent conditions of the young generation means throwing words into the wind. But we don't care what our children and our grandchildren are going to grow into, and we don't care how we're going to be remembered in the future and today by every citizen of the state. So without a particular paphos in words, I can only sincerely say that the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania will not only support this bill, but also all similar legislative initiatives aimed at guiding and maintaining order in the domestic space of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u64	Alexander Tkalenko. Behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u65	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs! The faction of the National Movement of Ukraine generally supports this bill and we believe that it must make substantial changes to the legislation in force, as we have recently had extremely resonant and controversial trials involving the activities of various shareholders, including those of strategic importance. In general, the project regulates the relationships that arise during placement, circulation of securities, and the introduction of professional activities in the stock market. At the same time, there are major shortcomings, such as the fact that the first, tenth, issue of local bonds is granted only to city councils and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We consider this to be an appropriate right to give district councils and perhaps even district councils. In addition, the terms and procedures for licensing professional activities in the stock market are provided for in this law to be made available to the State Commission from securities and stock markets, which in principle reduces the level of regulatory regulation in this area. We therefore consider it appropriate to include in this bill also the elements of the granting of conditions and procedures for the granting of licences for professional work in this stock market. In general, we believe that the law will allow the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of investors and large, small, and small investors in Ukraine to be regulated in the legislative area of the functioning of the stock market as a whole and of individual participants. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement considers it appropriate to adopt the bill in the first reading, taking into account the amendments and observations made by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We believe that this law will generally contribute to the formation of a more transparent and liquid market in Ukraine, a stock market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u66	John the Rabbit. Following him is Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u67	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks is out of date. Even the emphasis on the stock market in this name already suggests that there was no question of developing the stock market properly at the time. Therefore, a bill on securities and the stock market should be adopted and adopted in the first reading. The financial market is not developed today, and not only because it doesn't want to, but also because we don't have clear legislation that regulates all these processes very strictly and that creates resources to invest in economic development or other spheres. I would draw your attention to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific Authority. From my point of view, this is a great document to listen to. But what does the bill itself warn? The ideaology of liberalism is being realized, and once again, in certain directions of unlimited liberalism. In particular, part three of article 17 of the project provides that the terms and procedures for licensing professional activities in the stock market are determined by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. As you can see, there's a decrease in the legal and regulatory regulation of the law in the law. This will have a negative impact on the protection of the rights of professional participants in the stock market. In this context, the project needs to be complemented by a new chapter on how to license professional activities in the stock market. And in this order it is necessary to write out the terms of the license, the grounds for the refusal of the license, the period during which the licence is to be issued, the reasons for the cancellation of the licenses. Because this is the mechanism that we're going to drive the problem to the level of government. And you realize that if an official does licenses, if he does it himself, even if it's the Cabinet of Ministers, there's going to be a lot of abuse. This is also true with regard to the requirements of the liquidity of traders, which means that we should also raise the level of regulatory regulation at the level of the law. You can still get your attention about the stock market. is offered to form a stock exchange in the form of a household association, an entrepreneurial society. I think it's going to be wrong, because in this case, the stock market should not be a profitable enterprise like this, it's going to have to redistribute these flows. But when she sees that the purpose of her activities will be, and when. And there's a lot of contradictions, because if it's a stock company, the number of votes depends on the number of shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u68	Now. Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u69	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Hinzburg, Communist Party faction. I would like to address you, honourable deputies, and voters. Of course, we all want the laws to be enforced. So is the law we're talking about. And also the law that we discussed earlier. I'm going to step back a little bit and say, whatever election laws we pass with you, if the courts interfere with the election, no law will help. I'm just saying that today because I know that very well. And that's why we need to pass a law on judges so that they don't go into a election process where they don't care. Then, essentially, the law. And what I'm saying is, most of all, we're talking about the voucher of our state. I read what is involved in this law? Shares, bonds, treasury obligations, investments, savings certificates, bills, pledges. If my voters listen to me, they know what I'm talking about right now. Including the addition of “and vouchers” that were once divided into all Ukrainian citizens in 1996. Then they too should be spoken of in this law. We do not deny that the law must be done, but you realize that today a dozen families have divided the property of Ukraine and ruled. And they will eat these shares, the certificates, all that is not, no one will stand before, no law, for today they will eat as far away as possible. If a small enterprise releases shares from its profits, it will surely catch the shark. They will never reach ordinary citizens, and we understand that. And can we, by this law, prevent this from happening, can't we? There is no answer. Therefore, the State must be prescribed in this law, which the State is responsible for all violations, assumes responsibility for all material damage that will be unlawfully lost. But it's not in this law again. I want to say, in the example of the situations that have taken place in our areas, for example, in the town of Six, there was this action game called Invasport, in the city of Konotap, in other businesses, in other cities where securities, or under similar documents, were played and people contributed to it and then they disappeared. And what, once again, will the law not admit such facts or ensure? Once again, this is not written in this law. I'd like to see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u70	Yes. For reasons, please vote a minute Black and Shurma, if you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u71	Vladimir Cherniak, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, in my view, the bill in the first reading deserves conceptual support. Indeed, the old law is out of date, we need a modern, modern and forward-looking Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges. I think in the process of preparing for second reading, we need: First, to reconcile it more with the Code of Masters. Secondly, it's clearer to write a license mechanism for professional activity in the stock market. And thirdly, to build a more effective mechanism to protect the rights of citizens, organizations and citizens. You need control, responsibility and sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u72	Igor Shurma, please microphone. It's Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u73	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, the individual positions of the project require alignment with the relevant rules of the Civil Code, namely, that of classification of securities; second, that of classification of securities; third, that of the legislative order for the introduction of other types of securities other than those recognized in the law; and fourth, that of the owners. Directly in this law, it is appropriate to settle all matters related to the procedure for licensing professional activities in the stock market. Obviously, it is also appropriate to establish that the stock exchange should not be a commercial but rather a non - entrepreneurial society that does not have a profit to gain. Absolutely, in our view, it is wrong and in a way that is contrary to budgetary legislation, it appears to be the norm that the bonds of domestic government loans can be a source of financing for the deficit of local budgets. Therefore, the bill can be adopted, but it can be accepted if the comments are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u74	Please, Jaroslav Kenzier. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u75	Jaroslav, Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. It is a good thing that the Supreme Council is going to adopt this law, which foresees, as it were, the prospects for the work and development of the stock market, the work of securities. But we, honourable fellow members of the people's parliament, need to think about how to deal with those former securities, particularly by giving a concrete example when an investment company was set up in Lviv in 1996 – a closed-circuit “Galic Investments” company. 200,000 citizens have placed their property certificates in these “Galicken Investments”. And that's over two and a half billion dollars. And today, no one knows the fate of their property certificates. I think the Supreme Council should also find a solution, as in compensation for the return of the people being robbed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u76	Please prepare for the vote. The draft Securities and Stock Markets Act, registration number 7818, is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading. [[12:16:36]] For 240 Decision taken. A draft Law on Mortgage Bonds is under consideration. Registration number 8141. According to the Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please, three minutes, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I have the honour to report to you a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Bonds prepared jointly with colleague Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. The draft Law on Mortgage Bonds of Ukraine was developed in the implementation of the Law on Mortgage in part of the requirements for the circulation of mortgage bonds as a type of mortgage securities. Despite the fact that in countries with a market economy, mortgages are one of the main tools of the stock market in Ukraine, they have not yet found practical applications. The main reason for this is the lack of a proper legislative framework. The situation, in turn, inhibits the development of the market, mortgage lending, including its socially significant segment as housing, and mortgage lending. The introduction into the circulation of mortgage bonds is directly the subject of a mortgage bond bill. Ukraine's Mortgage Act lays down fundamental principles for the formation of mortgage liabilities for the introduction into free farm circulation, including through the issuance of mortgages. In developing this concept, Ukraine's Mortgage Bond Bill is called upon to define the legal regime for the transformation of mortgage liabilities arising from the primary mortgage lending market. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill, and their comments will certainly be taken into account in further work. The committee has considered this bill, and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the first reading. A draft of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given to you, dear colleagues. Please support and adopt a decision on the adoption of the Law on Mortgage Bonds. Thank you for your attention. I will. As for the decision of a colleague of Chernevski. With great respect for my colleague, Mr. Czernovecki, I found no reason in the explanatory note that the bill was unacceptable. With regard to duplication of terms, we wrote a bill specifically to react to bonds because mortgage certificates are already operating and are regulated in a certain way. So I don't see why there should be a decision about unacceptableness, but rather, it's about working together on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u78	Yeah, sign up for a question, three minutes. Please, Hinzburg, follow her Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u79	Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, I understand that this Law on Mortgage Bonds makes some kind of mortgage. Please tell me, isn't this about the land being set up in this law? Explain to me. Is that so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u80	Thank you. You know, in general, when we passed the basic Law on Mortgage, it wasn't about mortgages. And all the laws that go into the development of the Law on Mortgage cannot touch the land’s mortgage or agricultural assignment. This law is a law that develops the mortgage law and regulates only the issuance of specific securities. Earth doesn't touch that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u81	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u82	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please. Well, that's a first remark. We will, of course, support the bill, because the need for legislation to build mechanisms and ways of involving long-term financial resources today does not call anyone into question, especially in the context of a difficult situation in which we find ourselves in the wake of an orange misunderstanding. But please tell me how this law will contribute and whether it will contribute, first, to the reduction of interest rates on loans. That's what interests our voters today, that's what interests people and entrepreneurs today, including those who are engaged in construction. And the second is a very important question for our voters, especially for young people. Will the implementation of this law help to revive housing, especially in areas not only in Kiev but also in the district centers and district centers of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you so much for asking, it's very appropriate. You know, the main thing, one of the main objectives of this law is to reduce interest rates on housing loans, just because the mortgage bond mechanism will involve long-term investments in the banking sector, which will reduce interest on housing loans. As far as territoriality is concerned, this law is national and will contribute to the development of housing, including youth construction throughout Ukraine, not just because it provides a mechanism for the involvement of cheap, cheap, and long money.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u84	Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u85	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. I have the following question about the text of the bill: it is envisaged that the mortgage manager, by covering structured mortgage bonds, may be a bank, or another financial institution that will receive a corresponding licence. According to the legislation in force, we have put the licensing of certain types of entrepreneurial activity into a separate law, and we define those entities that are entitled to obtain those or other licenses. First, as you can see, the solution to this question? Or can it really not be possible to look for conditions here in financial institutions, because the very status of the financial institutions is already special in this state and their creation provides for certain requirements. And the second question is how to make mortgage bonds. Do you feel it necessary to reduce the value of these bonds in the future? And how much are you willing to lower that cost?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u86	Well, you know, I don't think it's discounted securities. As far as licensing is concerned, I think that this is a very important question and requirement for a financial institution that deals with the mortgage issue and the accounting of mortgage securities, in particular bonds, should be further reviewed and additional conditions introduced, because it is very long money, money and could be involved in a large sector of the economy, but I think we can talk about it with you on the round table. I suggest you take it on the first reading, we can look at that, that's a fair offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We have a motion for an inadmissibility order. Leonid Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u88	I see. Let's move on to the discussion. Give me 15 minutes. Please, Levcun. Behind him is Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u89	Vladimir Levcun, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! The draft Law on Mortgage Bonds in its work and adoption will stimulate further development of the Institute of Mortgage Securities and improve the use of mortgages. I'm positive. There is an opportunity for a new type of securities — mortgage bonds — to be circumvented. This will enable the use of a new financial instrument that will boost business activity in Ukraine. Two types of such securities have been introduced to make more effective use of them: they provide effective oversight by the State. However, article 2 states that a related person is recognized only as a legal person who exercises control over another legal person or controls another legal person or is under joint control with another legal person. Unlike other laws in force, Ukraine does not include legal persons associated with family relationships. This definition should be improved in order to ensure that the legal institution does not lose its purpose in its direct application. But the negative also needs to be referred to as some disagreements in the draft law that could lead to abuses that would worsen the financial position of mortgage owners. At the same time, the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, supports all legislative acts that stimulate the development of Ukraine’s financial market, provide new opportunities for the country’s budget. And that's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill, taking into account the comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u90	Vitaly Shibko, please. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I want to go to our citizens and say it's a really progressive law. And the main difference between this law and this law is that it is possible to have long-term financial resources. This is one of the main problems of developing market relations in Ukraine today. So I'm talking about civilized market relations in Ukraine. This is the first positive that we need to pay attention to. And the second is that there's a possibility of lowering interest rates on loans. All over the world, there are some normal possibilities for credit rates, but as you can see, we have dozens of different ones. And that's why it's crazy when you pay more at credit rates, which is what you can use to do your farming. But I also want to draw the attention of those who propose this bill, which we need to work on, and the main thing is article 21 of the bill. So this is about what mortgage managers, I'm not going to call it anymore, because it's a very long definition, so it can only be obtained on the basis of a license. And at the same time, we know that we have a law called the licensing of certain types of farming that says that this type of farming activity is not licensed. So we either have to change what's going on in this bill, or by then adopting this bill as a law, we have to agree that the changes will be made and the law that I called it. That's the first one. Keep going. This is about a legal person. The point is that this legal person may be the manager of the mortgage. But if that's what we're gonna do. as a legal person, then there will be inequalities, we can place the subjects in unequal economic conditions. I think we need to make some adjustments here, too, in order to bring this article into line. And we still know that we have the mortgage law, so, well, I want to say that, as it is written in our bill, the law, I apologize, the mortgage is a guarantee for the real estate. And that's why we have to say in more detail here in the bill, as far as the concept of immovable property is concerned, and how we're going to continue to build this particular business on mortgage lending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u92	Igor Šurma. Behind him is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u93	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] This bill is the next step in shaping a full regulatory system for social relations such as mortgages. Its adoption is based on the 31st article of the Law on Mortgage. And yet there is a note. The project should clearly identify an entity that can be an impersonator, a mortgage lender. A project that may be a financial institution gives rise to a series of conflicts with valid legislation that regulates the status and authorization of various types of financial institutions. Yes, according to the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets, financial institutions include banks, credit unions, pawnshops, lysing companies, company trusts, insurance companies, savings insurance institutions, investment funds, etc. Not all listed financial institutions, however, can make special contributions to the release and circulation of securities. Credit unions, for example, are nonprofit organizations that are called upon to meet the needs of their members in mutual lending and to provide financial services at the expense of the combined financial contributions of members of the credit union. Only insurance, insurance and financial activities, the formation and placement of insurance reserves, and their management can be a direct activity of the insurer. Unlike the issue of securities, a legislatively fixed assignment and pawnshops. The project also needs to clearly identify the types of property that may be part of the mortgage. More detailed processing requires order for a decision to replace mortgage coverage, taking into account that the corresponding changes to the prospectus may be made only with the consent of the owners of mortgage bonds - order bonds, the manner in which the right of the owner of normal bonds to exercise the right to claim in the case of the timely execution of obligations or the application of a mortgage payment when the legal person is terminated by an immitent as a result of merger, association, division, conversion, and in the case of a species. Requirements for the availability of capital and liquidity that are proposed for the operation of a specialised mortgage facility may complicate the protection of the rights of owners of structured mortgage bonds, as well as the arrangements for the administrator to comply independently with his obligations under a mortgage management contract. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that such a bill can only be adopted on the basis of a second reading, if it is thoroughly worked out. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u94	Vladimir Yavorowski is invited to the presentation, the “Reform and Order” faction. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The existence of a mortgage system is one of the signs of economic health. The fact that we have so long delayed consideration, the adoption of the law and the mortgage itself, and the introduction of the mortgage lending principle in Ukraine, is absolutely not an accident, because I am convinced that if this were done earlier, today we would not have such jettison prices on the housing market that we have today in Ukraine, where the square meter of housing costs much more than in Paris, Warsaw or elsewhere. Two, what I'd like to say. Which, of course, would have to be more appropriate, because sometimes we are. We're so excited as a young parliament, so excited by the legislation that we already have milk laws, meat laws, acid milk, cream, and so on. We are no longer legislating, but law enforcement is very common. So it would be more logical, of course, to introduce this bill into the mortgage law, and then work out exactly, let's say, this segment right over here. Because we have this bill today, we are in favour of adopting it, I mean, the Reform and Order faction. But there's a completely Trojan horse that's running into this bill, which, I'm categorically opposed to it, and I'm asking you to support me, because you can see that they've hit a little bit with straw so no one understands it, and it turns out that the state mortgage agency can't be the chief budget manager. In connection with this last paragraph of chapter 4, paragraph 4, of the Final Provisions, listen to the funding of the State Mortgage Fund through the State Budget Special Fund. Now look at our Codex Budget and you'll see that it's completely out of the question. Because of this, someone wants to put this mortgage fund into the budget and manage the budget. I think it's totally unacceptable. It must be a self-sufficient completely financial structure that has to finance itself. And in closing, I want to say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's good that you are. Inconspicuously, with your silent participation and our, by the way, we're also destroying a little parliamentaryism. First, listen: Almost 10 committee heads have not been elected to this day and will no longer be elected. Is that Parliament's incompetence, Parliament's incompetence? There would have to be some kind of negotiation. Second, about the records. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said to the committee a week later to consider this question again. If it used to be the cocks that were recorded in the morning, now it's the owls that are recorded at 12 o'clock in the morning. Well, that's unacceptable. Now, too, forbid the deputies from expressing their dissatisfaction with letters. So we're, in general, here, excuse me, just some stats sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u97	The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Honorary colleagues, the Ukrainian People's Party and the faction in Parliament have always supported those bills that are aimed at developing the stock market and the entire financial market in Ukraine on civilized legislative principles. The bill introduces a new financial instrument. And that deserves support, the need for it matured. I think the main task facing the legislator is to ensure the effectiveness of this mechanism. I think it is for us to focus our efforts on preparing the bill for second reading. In this regard, I would like to express some wishes. You have to figure out the concept of a mortgage. These proposals have already been made, and I want to support this in order to make it more clear. In fact, the mortgage is real estate, and how it relates to the financial instrument, to mortgage bonds. So here's a question that needs to be written more clearly, and this is the new bill that needs to be written more clearly. In my opinion, we need to write down more clearly the rights of owners and protect the rights of mortgage owners, i.e., which should be appropriate control, responsibility, sanctions. I also share the view that the question of who is the subject of these bonds, who are the financial institutions, and who are the entities. And indeed, in the bill there is, one can conclude that there are unequal conditions or the possibility of getting into unequal conditions of different subjects. And in the process of preparing for second reading, this inequality needs to be removed. Of course, the question of the type of mortgage property needs to be clearly defined. It is also a very important issue that needs to be definitively and clearly written in the second reading. These are the wishes I've expressed. In general, I think the bill can and should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u98	Vladimir Anisimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u99	Anisimov, Communist faction, 30 constituency, Dneprodj yinsk. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! The bill that we are currently discussing in the Chamber and its adoption is expected to provide an opportunity to attract long-term financial resources and reduce interest rates on credit. But we all know that the main and best creditor for the State is always its people. And the 120 billion that our people had in their contributions went to our economy and were used very effectively, and often they could not even use it because there was a lot of money and the labour force was scarce at the time. Now we have the exact opposite situation, and we see that we stole those 120 billion, stole other deposits, pensions, stole normal wages, and continue to encroach on our suffering people. Right now, we're getting information that public service fees are going up. Both in Dnepropetrovsk and in the area, in some cities it has already been raised three times. What should we do in a situation like this, and what law should we adopt? About the mortgage? Maybe he's needed. But we need a law to protect our people from arbitraryism. And the people are already protecting themselves. I have information that the central highway in the city of Dnepropetrovsk is closed. Thousands of people have come out and defend their rights in this way. The legislation that we now have in Ukraine is not enough to protect the common people in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u100	Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on Mortgage Bonds has been completed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. But we have a bill of non-admissibility. Therefore, the draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft law will be put to the vote first. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Law on Mortgage Bonds, by Leonid Chernewický. [[Registration number 8141-P1]] It's about inadmissibility. To – 11. The decision is not taken. A vote is taken on the proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Law on Iopthetic Bonds The authors of the National Deputys of Ukraine Svetash and Burjak. [[Registration number 8141]] Please vote. For 267. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to include a number of drafts in the agenda and consider them in a simplified manner. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 8256. [[on the order in which the record of the proceedings is fixed and the use of technical means]] Please vote. For -272 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, your report. Get ready from the committee. Who will act? Here we have Moses writing what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The point is that we are building a judicial system and, as discussed at the Supreme Council court yesterday, we are working on the implementation of judicial reform. This bill is one of the bricks in the building up of this legal house, which we call "the judicial reform". And I think it's very important. The point is that when a trial is conducted in a local court, the trial is fixed by protocol, and all records are recorded. In addition, there is a parallel and technical record, where possible, and that is correct. But unfortunately, there was archaism in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the same process has to be written in a court of law and in an appeal court, and even in the Supreme Court. That is, in addition to technical reproduction, there is an additional need for the Registrar of the Court, technical costs and so forth. This does not require a situation. When it comes to noting the protocol, there is a need. When it comes to a court hearing, it's necessary, and it's the Criminal Procedure Code, keeping a log of a court hearing, in all other cases it's not necessary. We reconciled this position with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, with the higher administrative courts, with the appeals courts. This is a clear position. I am grateful to the committee, and Markusz Maria will report this position today, for supporting the bill. So I think it could be accepted both as a basis and as a whole. He doesn't raise any objections at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u102	Thank you. Maria Andriyovna Marcus, deputy chairman of the committee Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u103	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement has considered a bill submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko to amend the Criminal Procedure Code. The proposed bill aims to improve the rules of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the regulation of the procedure for the conduct of a record of court proceedings and the reproduction of technical records of court hearings in courts of various institutions and the elimination of conflicts in the Criminal Procedure Code on the determination of judicial proceedings by amending articles 88, 87, 236-2, 236-6, 240 and 411 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. According to the Chief Research Administration, the first reading of the bill should be based on further consideration of the proposals made. In support of the bill's stated idea and in view of the lack of principled comments and suggestions on it, the committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. If there are no warnings about him, we will accept him as the law of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u104	Thank you, too, Maria Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, so we'll take it. A decision? Yes, Leveko Lukyanenko, please give your speech. We need 2 in a row, 2 in a row. Prepare Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yulia Timoshenko, Lukyanenko The need for extradition, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is due to contradictions in the legislative regulation of the order of the main means of determining the course of the proceedings of the court, and the use of technical means in the courts of different institutions. Article 87 of the Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that the minutes of the proceedings are the main procedural document that is drawn up during the proceedings and is an important source of information on the content of the evidence examined in the court, the enforcement by the court and the parties to the proceedings provided for in the law. At the same time, the law provides for the establishment of a protocol not only during each court hearing of the first instance but also in the case of appeals and appeals proceedings. If such a fixation of a trial for the trial of the first instance is justified, it is appropriate for the court of appeal to enter a protocol only in the case of a judicial investigation, as provided for in article 362 of the Criminal Procedure Code. In other cases, such a fixation is not a procedural necessity but will only lead to excessive financial costs for increasing the number of secretaries of court meetings, additional facilities, and so forth. Moreover, there is no need for a protocol in the court of a court of cassation. The cassation of the case is carried out without investigation of the evidence and within the limits defined in the cassation complaints. All procedurally significant actions are noted in the court’s approval. The fixation of the cassation process is not provided for in other procedural codes. The implementation of the situation that, when dealt with in a case-by-case procedure, the protocol will entail unwarranted financial costs for the increase in the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the State of Registrars of Courts, Additional Premises, Prolongation of Case Review Periods, etc. With regard to the need to comply with such a procedure as the use of a technical record of the court proceedings being conducted in a court hearing at the first instance. In the Court of Appeal and the Court of Cassation, it should be specified and determined that such reproduction can be performed both in full and in part, depending on the specific circumstances of the case, which will prevent abuse by the parties to the trial for the purpose of unwarranted delaying the case. In addition, it is necessary to specify clearly in the law that a record of a court hearing is kept in the course of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u106	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I fully agree that this bill is designed to improve the criminal process, and the faction will support this bill. But using what we may be hearing from the judiciary, other representatives of this authority, branches of this authority, I would like to announce here that a protocol is being implemented in accordance with the bill. That's what this is all about. First. Consider the complaint against the prosecutor’s ruling, the investigating authority, of the refusal to prosecute a criminal case. That's the first one. Consider the decision of the investigating authority, the prosecutor in closing the case, the court’s decision on matters related to the execution of the sentence, and the previous case. I mean, using this, I want to stress once again when the protocol is being drawn up so that the representatives of this branch of government have the opportunity to analyze and make their comments, perhaps before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u108	Sergey Sobolev, please. You'll be out of town? Turn on the microphone, please, Soboljevo. Then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u109	Sobolev, faction of the Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, in my view, have paid very serious attention to the contradictions that exist today in legislation. The fact that Onopenko introduced this bill is actually an attempt to regulate those norms that are currently at odds in various legislative acts, including the Criminal Procedure Code and how this is regulated in the legislative acts that we have adopted before. Logic is absolute in this bill. In my view and the faction's view today, there's good reason for us to clearly distinguish when we're setting up a technical protocol for a court hearing, and that's what the relevant legislative act has determined today, and when it doesn't happen. In fact, today, in this current legislation, the appropriateness of legislative acts provides an opportunity to avoid the actual contradiction and delay in the proceedings, because the contradiction in the laws allows for a constant appeal to each of these laws, and which of them then acts on the judgment of a court which will depend on a particular case or on those who specifically refer to one or another question. That's why, given all of this, this bill, in our view, has to be supported and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u110	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u111	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. When I heard Mr. Onopenk, he stressed that there was no need to create a full or partial technical remedy for the trial, there, either in appeal or in cassation, as if there were no procedural requirements. But if you take article 88.2, you will see that there are two keywords. One of these key words is that what the initiative might be to play the technical record of the trial. And if the actual drafting of the law is that such initiators can be both parties and the court's initiative, it is now proposed that the parties should be thrown out and left to the courts. I think it's completely wrong, because it narrows down the rights of the parties to the trial and puts everything on trial. And the court will make its own decision on how to lead this play. This is contrary to part three of article 22 of the Constitution and will narrow down the content and scope of the rights and freedoms that exist today. Keep going. If we take these changes and put together the provisions of article 197 of the Civil Procedure Code, part of the first article 44 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality and article 81.1 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, we will also see that there are rules that guide the process's technical record at the request of the parties and at the initiative of the court. So let us be consistent with some people. From my point of view, I don't think we can narrow this requirement down to court today. It is imperative that we leave the demands of the parties. So I think that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but under this condition that the requirement of the sides will be taken into account. If it is not taken into account, then there is no point in accepting such an amendment, all the excuses that need to be reconciled, that there is no need for a procedural procedure when the appeal or anything else. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that narrowing requirements is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u112	Yes, with Black's motives. Nigga's on tape, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u113	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, in my view, there are sufficient and sufficient reasons for us to appreciate the bill positively. I agree with my colleague at the Ivan Zaj faction about that, and those who spoke here, I think it's a perfectly correct, objective, adequate evaluation of the bill. [[faction of the Ukrainian People's Party]] Well, I think he might even be this technical. But he's a necessary bill. Why? Because its implementation will contribute to the economy of time and money. And if so, it is clear that we must support him. What is the bill about? It is the application of material and procedural legislation, and this does not require a protocol. There's experts sitting there, there's no need to investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u114	Yes, John Verni Dubov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We have an interesting legislative process going on. Since 1992, various working groups, led by the Cabinet of Ministers, have already worked on and worked on several drafts of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code. And we are. They were adopted by the Supreme Council of this vocation in the first reading, the Criminal Procedure Code, and on Thursday, the following day. For tomorrow, more faithfully, the agenda is for this discussion of the new Criminal Procedure Code. And in parallel, every day we look at changes, additions and all that. I'd still like to suggest that we consider this draft of the Criminal Procedure Code as a whole, and we accept it, not patch these holes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u116	Thank you, too. Yes, Onopenko, please conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ivan Vasilovich, our colleague! There's a draft of the Criminal Procedure Code on Thursday, but it's not in the second reading, it's in the first reading. And that's why. And neither does he, the draft Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, the Legal Policy Committee against this version of the Criminal Procedure Code as the rudimentary of the former Codex. That's why we don't patch the holes today, we make the principles of amendment that will allow the Supreme Court to investigate only whether a lower court has been observed -- a local court, an appeal, a substantive, procedural law -- not to apply the minutes of the court. As a lawyer, you should know perfectly well that there should be no protocol. It's not going to the House of Commons, it's not going to the Chamber of Civil Affairs, it's just that there's this breach in our Criminal Procedure Code that we're trying to correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u118	Yes. Government position, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Please. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ministry of Justice supports the proposed bill and considers that its adoption is essential in order to eliminate the inconsistencies and contradictions that are currently in place is in the Criminal Procedure Code, which is part of the determination of the proceedings by technical means and the introduction of court records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u119	Yes. Dear colleagues, a motion for a committee on non-admission is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the order in which the record of the proceedings is fixed and the use of technical means]] Registration number is 8256. Please vote. For -337. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a committee proposal. May I have your attention, please? Adopt this law in general as well. Who are the ones who make the warning? You don't? To -339. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law: the draft Act amending the Act on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport. [[about registration]] Registration number 8477. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. For 292. We've put the matter in order of the day. Let us now move on to his consideration. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Oh, it's a reduced procedure! Then please Oreste Dmitrovich Klimpush. Please, three minutes. To be prepared by the committee, the Seminoga will report to Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed in Bill 8477: amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Means of Transport. You well remember the circumstances and the speed of July 6 this year when a valid law was passed by the government in a package of other bills. As for its acceptance, a number of comments were given to the project’s developers, but they were not taken into account. Following the adoption of the law, clear legal and professional errors made in the law, particularly in contravention of other Ukrainian laws, limited citizens' rights to import transport when moving to a permanent residence in Ukraine, did not address the issue of the first registration of Ukrainian vehicles. These shortcomings make the current law unfit to use and achieve the main goal of improving the environmental situation of Ukraine. A specific list of shortcomings is found in the explanatory note to the bill. If we really want to stop the harmful effects of road transport on the environment of Ukraine, we must immediately accept the changes to the current law proposed by our project. In particular, in order to address the issue of the first registration of Ukrainian means of transport, the bill makes direct reference to them and introduces a change to the title of the law, the text of the law is supplemented by a preamble. The law is extended to saddle tractors, special - purpose vehicles, and highways with fixed engines that have been omitted from the law. Instead, they removed trams and trolleybuses, which were not clear why they were listed. Articles 1 and 2 replace the notion of “importing into customs territory of Ukraine” with the most acceptable term “passing to customs territory of Ukraine”, which, according to the Customs Code, means allowing the customs authority to move the means of transport across the customs border of Ukraine. The concept of continuous use of “for free use” has been replaced by more acceptable concepts “for free circulation purposes” and “for import” has been changed to the most accurate term “moment of movement across the customs border of Ukraine”. It's so technical. Most important. The new article 2 provides for the introduction of Euro-2 standards for bus and light - car tractors from January 1, 2006 for all light cars, buses, and tractors. And for trucks and special vehicles from January 1, 2007. Ukrainian producers are ready for this, and this is the anticipated transition period, it's necessary for that. In general, the bill corrects technical other errors and is supported by the Government's Committee on Finance and Banking by the Science and Export Administration. In particular, it should be noted for the transcript that when agreed upon by the Ministry of Economics in article 9, the words “about. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u121	Give him a chance to finish. I'm telling you, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u122	“pass to customs territory” leaving the term “washing”. The adoption of the proposed project allows for the creation of an effective Ukrainian law, thus ensuring a substantial improvement in the environmental situation in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the project and consider it appropriate to accept it as a law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga is invited to the presentation by the committee. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u124	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 29 November 2005, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Imports into the Customs Territory of Ukraine by Klimpush and Rudenko, registration number 8477. The previous reporter fully explained the substance of the bill. I will therefore point out that the current Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law “On certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport” really needs to be amended, as the existing terminology, inaccuracies and contradictions in our legislation cause ambiguity in the interpretation of the rules of this law. In addition, there is a need to resolve the existing uncertainty regarding the first registration of Ukrainian vehicles, as well as the first registration of vehicles imported or manufactured in Ukraine earlier, and for which certificates of conformity had previously been issued during the transitional period following the acquisition of the euro-2 environmental standards. Our committee believes that the bill at its proper level solves these problems, as well as its adoption, will contribute to a substantial reduction in the negative impact of road transport on the environment and to the non-negative impact of the legislation on certain import issues in the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport on the activities of Ukrainian transport producers. In the course of the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Matters of Import into Customs Territory of Ukraine on the basis of, and in general, the deletion of, the second article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import into Ukraine, the Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transportation imported by citizens into customs territory of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of 28.11, notes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u125	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? Let's give 2 "for", 2 "against" if they insist. Who insists on the performance? Valerius Suškević insists. Please. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Then Vitaly Shibko insists. Microphone Valeriy Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Suškević, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. The Law is, in fact, the result of a situation that arose when one of the laws of Satan was adopted. In fact, this is a technical situation that has affected some of the issues related to the problems of humanitarian vehicles for the disabled. Not all of this law decides from the point of view of persons with disabilities, but it corrects the rules of law that have worked against existing legislation. I believe that this law must be adopted today, both in the first reading and in general, because postponing it for a later period is a matter of concern, including information from the Ministry of Transport, that after this law we will be able to work properly with the disabled. Thank you for your attention and please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u127	Vitaly Shibko, please. Well, if people insist. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Quickly, a faction of socialists. I want to point out to my colleagues that the main thing is that this law leads to standards that apply to Euro-2. That is, we are in a favourable position to date when we are really and are not violating our capabilities, we are not violating our interests, and at the same time we are standardizing our relations with Euro-legislatives. That's the first one. But I would also like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that there are three more at the same time as this bill. I'll just call their numbers so we can understand each other. This is Bill 832. 8322, 8402, and 8477 — that is, if we somehow respect our colleagues — we need to find out. Or we accept it in the first reading and then we look at those bills to make a full law, because then we have to give up those bills and not look at them in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u129	Yes, Korj, please, faction of the Block of Timoshenko. Microphone, please turn it on, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u130	Thank you. Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. This law provides that imports into Ukraine of special-purpose tractors, semi-trailers, seat tractors, buses, light vehicles, trucks, special-purpose vehicles and chassis with installed engines are permitted if they were made not earlier than 8 years ago at the time of movement across the Ukrainian border. All imported products comply with environmental standards, not below the Euro 2 level. Changes in the terminology of the Customs Code, please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u131	Vladimir Yavorowski? I won't. John the Rabbit. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the adoption of this law is simply a matter of the situation in which we find ourselves. Part of the cars will be taken, or they will be taken by the end of this year, if the changes that were, or the law, are in effect, many will not be able to sweep these cars away. So, as I understand this bill, for part of the trucks, we are cancelling the introduction of the Euro 2 environmental standards by 1 January 2007 and for part of the cars, like, by the middle of the next year in 2006. After all these light cars, others, it's about e that Euro 2 will be introduced from January 1, 2006, in which we are, in fact, interested in having a normal environmental situation in Ukraine. I specifically asked Klimpush, and I asked the Ministry representatives whether it would really be like I just told you. They assured us that this would be the case. Then in this situation, we can vote in favour of this bill. In order, on the one hand, to become our buyers of carriers and, on the other hand, not to delay the process of moving our cars into European standards, Euro-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u133	No, not all of them. Peter Cibenko instead of Ještenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, the situation that has arisen in connection with the need for the adoption of this law is extremely instructive. And here's the thing. I would like once again to express my wish to my colleagues that we must hurry to Europe. But we need to hurry slowly. Because they were in such a hurry to make changes in line with the WTO that they lost people with disabilities on the road. Here's what we're talking about. Today, there are 153 thousand disabled people in line to receive a positive car. So I would like to see that because of the possibility of getting a car through humanitarian aid, we have helped a number of people with disabilities to get help. So once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members, when they are in great hurry to Europe, to weigh everyone, as it were, “yes” and “against” in order to vote in favour of one law or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u135	Dear colleagues. A black man, please, with a motive. Nigger microphone, please. You probably have the wrong card. Well, it's already worked. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can do the right thing and do the right thing if we support the bill. I'd like to answer to Deputy Zybenko, and I understand his concern for those citizens who are in line right now, and I need to clean up, and all that sort of thing, and for the disabled. But I don't think there's such a threat. It's a smart place, no rush, no fuss, no fuss. The point is that we're going to the Euro 2 standard, but it's differentiated and it's deferred. And that's why I think these fears can be removed, especially since Cibenko supported the bill, but we should always find the opponent if he's not even there. And then it sounds convincing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u137	Honourable National MPs are voting on the basis of the draft law, registration number 8477, taking into account the comments made by the committee. No objections? Based on the base. For 376. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, given the number of votes, as well as the offer that has been made to accept it in general, if there is no objection, I put it to the vote. Concerning the approval of the draft law as the Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Matters of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Means of Transport”, registration number 8477. [[about registration]] Please vote. For -358. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a vote to include the daily draft Order on the creation of the Ministry of Tractor and Agricultural Engineering of Ukraine. About getting into the daytime. Please vote, please vote. For – 181 Dear colleagues, is the attention not working? Let's check again. The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the consideration of the question of inclusion in the agenda, is draft regulation 5542, please vote. For – 208 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: Communists – 54, "Regions of Ukraine" – 1, National Party – 44, "Our Ukraine" – 0, Block Timoshenko – 30, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, SDPU(o) – 1, National Block – 19, "Trust of the People" – 1, "Reforms and Order" – 0, "One Ukraine" – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 12, non-fractional – 12. Please, it's a guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! You're 50 people, 50 percent selected from rural districts. When you went to the Supreme Council, you said you'd be protecting the village in blood. There was a fashion word "killing village". The village is falling apart because in the village, 40 percent of the supply of technology has already worked 90 percent of its resources. Today, we suffer enormous losses, and only because the Ministry of Agriculture was eliminated did we join the Ministry of Industrial Policy. It's the Ministry that cooks rubber, knits silk, tanks and planes that prepares under NATO. And the combines and tractors, the cultivators and the plows, nobody needs them. Let's think about what we're doing in front of our Ukrainian people and our village.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I ask you to do this in a democratic and correct manner: we will ask the authors of the drafts of the decision to rework it, because there is still an appeal to President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich, to prepare a ruling that the Supreme Council considers it necessary to create such a simple formulation, we will then, I think, give a friendly vote on the proposal that has just been made by Omelyan Parubka. Let's do this to make it a solid document. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to consider a reduced procedure of two bills: 7645 and 7646. The authors of the draft regulations. The draft laws and the committee are proposed to postpone their consideration in connection with the need for further development. Therefore, the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on non-State pension insurance, registration number 7690, is being announced. The reporter is Valery Borisovich Aloshin. Prepare Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies! Your point is to propose a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on non-State pension insurance. I would like to immediately draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that this is a bill that has been tabled in place of several drafts that have been passed before. And unfortunately, some expert evaluations to date have concluded on old - fashioned drafts. Then I would like to draw your attention to the following: This bill proposes to amend the law on non-State pension insurance. These changes apply to two of these basic ways of improving this law. First, technical remedies are introduced to eliminate certain internal contradictions of the law and bring its rules into line with valid laws that have already been adopted since the Supreme Council passed the Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. There are also some precise and improved standards that allow non-state pension funds to operate more predictablely and more attractively and more securely in terms of the interests of the participants in such funds. The bill also contains amendments to tax laws, such as the Law on Taxation of Business Income, and the Law on Taxes on Added Costs. I emphasize that these changes do not, in principle, alter the nature of the relationship in the field of taxation, but provide some editorial clarifications that would allow the tax authorities to predict their relationship fairly clearly and appropriately. When it comes to working on this bill, the standards contained in the bill that I drafted and introduced, as well as those contained in the bill that was drafted by a group of national deputies, members of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Many proposals are already coming to the bill, and there is good reason to believe that if this bill is adopted on the basis of further work, there will be improved and proposed standards and perhaps those that we have not even touched today. Because I'm also willing to inform you about the work being done in government and government regarding, again, improving the legislative provision of the third level of the Ukrainian pension system. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u141	Yes. Thank you, too. Please sit down, Valery Borisovich. Vitaly Homutinik. Anatoly Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u142	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! As you all know, more than two years have passed since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. As the practice has shown, this term is more than sufficient to reveal disagreements and inaccuracies. In this context, your consideration is given to the harmonized version of the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on non-State pension schemes developed by a group of national deputies in exchange for the previously introduced bills. Ukraine's draft law amending some of Ukraine's non-state pension laws, primarily aimed at protecting the rights of NHRI participants and creating more effective conditions for working with pension assets. To this end it is envisaged to amend the laws of Ukraine: “On non-state pension insurance”, “On corporate income taxation” and “On value added tax”. The Law on Non-Governmental Pensions introduces changes that provide for the improvement of procedures for the licensing of non-state pension fund administrators and pension fund management companies through the creation of a level playing field for the administration of non-state pension funds for professional administrators and asset management companies. The terminology of the law is also clarified and, given the deficit of financial instruments for the investment of pension assets, it is proposed to expand the list of such instruments and to change the standards of diversification. In particular, it is proposed to supplement the list of pension assets with the bonds of Ukrainian issuers of mortgage securities with real estate fund certificates and savings certificates for investment restrictions and proposes to increase the percentage of restrictions on investment activities with pension assets. The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on November 1st, reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill can be based on observations. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u143	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please, Suškevitch microphone. Stephen's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have a very difficult situation with regard to pension reform. In fact, we stopped her today. And our various political companies, including voters, have distorted the mechanism itself of identification and legislative basis, and practically the implementation of pension reform. And in these circumstances, creating and instituting a bill that improves the third level of pension insurance, which today is a non-state pension provision, is an extraordinary benefit. I think today we have to move on this very path. Making changes, improving legislation, is a matter for all of those, once again, distortions that have been committed by political companies to eliminate them. And what I want to say is that the development of the third level is now allowing those financial resources and the management of the financial resources of non-state pension funds to ensure that issues related to population contributions, including non-state pension forms, are ensured that they are safe and work for Ukrainian citizens. The bill has a number of rules that improve the non-state pension system. They are weighed, they are balanced, and today they are moving us to European world standards to adopt pension reform and non-state pension issues. I think that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, because it's exactly what we're all waiting for today from the pension reform, especially what's affecting the third level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Mikhailo Stepanov, microphone, please. Behind him is Sherschun Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u146	Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party. Honourable President, distinguished deputies. We don't have a three-way pension system. For the time being, the first level of solidarity has worked, which has been so profaned and mocked. But he works and works hard and provides pensioners with pensions. Level two is stockpiling. It doesn't work, and we don't know when it'll work. And that's the third level he's got, well, that's kind of the role, that's about the fifth wheel to the train in the pension system. But still, this third level is still working, people who have money are investing in it. Therefore, the emergence of such drafts can only be welcomed. But not all of them. It would still be necessary to clarify some of the provisions of the bill. For example, it would be useful to define more clearly the range of non-State and pension funds that could operate in the area of pension insurance, not through asset management agents, but directly. It was, though, you should do it more clearly. Next. There's a question. Charter capital of one million euros. For the administrator of the pension fund and the asset management company. That's a lot or that's a lot. Well, I guess for the asset management company, that would be fine, but for the administrator, there's still a lot. Because the administrator, he's, well, financial responsibility isn't that high. I think that this law makes sense in the first reading, but, in fact, the Supreme Council and the Government need to consider that the pension reform, which has been discussed so much, should go forward. And more than three years ago, when I had to deal with this issue, I was saying that if you wanted the stockpiling level to work, you wouldn't go anywhere. In order for people to be able to pay their money in savings funds, they will have to increase the wages of employees at one time or more. This political step will not be taken until society returns to it and no three-level system will even be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u147	Mikola Shershun. Behind him is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u148	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The question that is proposed for consideration is one of the most painful problems for mankind — human old age. But becoming a pensioner and getting old, these things are usually not perceived as being identical in a person's mind. Because in both cases few people want to get into coastal poverty and, most importantly, to stop being socially active, the pension limit frightens people, both the vague perspectives and the necessity of changing the normal way of life. Eastern wisdom emphasizes that the level of development of society is measured by the well - being of the youngest and oldest generations. And for an average European with retirement, life just starts. Numerous trips, tourist trips, various leisure facilities, have become the norm for their existence. During the years of independence, Ukraine has become a zone of or not the lowest standard of living for the vast majority of its population. And it is very dangerous that a person cannot live and cannot be sure of the day to come, that is, at such an age when it is very difficult to change opinions and beliefs. Thus, the main programme of principles and parties of the People's Block of Lithuania is the achievement of high standards of living and well-being of the people of Ukraine. That is, the State should contribute to the formation of such alternatives to the existence of our citizens, so that the choice for each of them is within the limits between good and better. Ideally, today we need to think about how to create the most favorable conditions so that a young person can take care of his or her assured old age. Therefore, the ‘Lithuania People's Party’ faction considers it appropriate to promote the formation at the legislative level of such mechanisms as to allow each citizen to maintain his or her social active status for the longest time. And on the pension threshold for every Ukrainian to look forward to a life full of beautiful and interesting moments. Yes, our parents deserve to live no worse than our western and eastern neighbors. As far as the bill is concerned, we tend to support it in the first reading, such as one that needs additional work, but in general corresponds to the need for a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u149	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u150	Vladimir Yavorowski. Javorovsky, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina First thing I'd like to say. You know, society is so impressed that if we didn't have so many elections, or if the election didn't take place in the form of a mental attack, Ukraine would have been in a completely different place than it is today. But choices are choices, and you can't go anywhere. The other one. We should remember that we will throw this law into a society that has not yet been forgotten, has not forgotten the pyramids, has not forgotten the trusts, has not forgotten the colossal troubles that have fallen upon a trusting, very often defenseless, in the legal sense of the word, the Ukrainian people, who have believed that this money is indeed to be surrendered, and we are well aware of what it was. which has been hit by national trust and our jurisprudence even with these two things, by the way, in all post-Radians not only in Ukraine, and it has already occurred in the Ukrainian fate that some of the people who have done or implemented these trusts are sitting among us today and are already adopting very different laws. Because of this, we should remember that distrust of this nonstate fund will be enormous and I would very much like all of us to remember if, God forbid, we compromise or one of the enforcers of this law will make this bill, we will not, for the years 10, 15, 20, ever before the reform of our pension system. I'm convinced that by adopting it on the first reading of this bill, and it needs to be adopted, but again, I'm starting to think about what. This bill will work for people who have a lot of money and will be able to risk putting money into this fund, so it's not going to apply again to most of our population in a very difficult situation, many people in general outside of poverty. That's why they're going to put money in these funds for people who aren't at risk. This too needs to be considered. Because of this, it is obvious that only this, as it were, collective state pension fund is likely to continue for a long, very long time. This was to be kept in mind. Because I think that before the second reading, it would be necessary, after all, to strengthen some precautionary methods against the potential shulers that are sufficient in our society. Tomorrow these funds are going to be attacked by all those who are being given a little bit in hand on these financial flows, and all of this is going to be thrown in there. I am absolutely convinced that there will be very few decent people in these funds to manage these funds. Because of that, let's take it in the first reading, because we need to move forward anyway, we're already way behind the whole world, I think, for a century of goals. But the second reading requires more work and more State guarantees to make people realize that they are protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u151	And while we prepare for the second, there will be decent people. Rabbit, one minute, please. John the Rabbit, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u152	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. If we have not really forgotten the findings of the fraudulent pyramids and trusts, we must, in advance, form legislation that regulates the activities of non-retirement funds. The fact is that pension funds are going to be sources not only of pension payments, but they're going to be sources of investment in pretty serious programs. If we don't have legislation that will bring all these processes down, which will set up the fuses, then we'll have something to do with privatizing the land or privatizing property or something else. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading precisely from those positions in order to act in advance. Because there's nothing worse than putting the process on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u153	Yes, Aloshin, one minute. Please, microphone, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask everyone to support the bill in view of the following. First, since 2003, there has been legislation on non-state pensions. At the beginning of this year, nonstate pension funds are operating in Ukraine. More and more employers are becoming active participants and investors in this nonstate pension system. Businesses count the costs to their employees and this allows active social programs to be implemented for the benefit of different participants and those who receive higher wages and those who receive lower incomes. But this all contributes to increasing the social protection of our people. Therefore, there is a request to support those standards that improve legislation in the activities of nonstate pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! The discussion was concluded. I put to the vote, on the adoption as a basis in the first reading, of the draft law on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine of non-State pension insurance registration number 7690. Please vote. For - 217. Yes, who, in order to return to the vote, please make up your mind. To 213. Although it is good to run before dinner. But you see. Who is responsible for the rereading of the first reading? Please vote. To - 234. Decision taken. The Law is directed at rereading the first reading. Yes, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes to consider another law. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the review of court decisions]] Registration number 7088. Wait, please. No, no, that's not the law, that's not it. I'm sorry. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on telecommunications and on the use of radio frequency resources in Ukraine. Registration number 7344. Corge Vitaly Terentiyovich reports. Get ready for Stanislav Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u156	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Ukrainian Laws, Registration Number 7344, proposes amendments and additions to Ukraine's Telecommunications Laws, the Radio Frequency Resource of Ukraine, and the Code on Administrative Offences. The purpose of this bill is to improve the legislative regulation of the field of telecommunications and the use of radio frequency resources. The implementation of the bill will contribute to additional funding coming into the budget by improving the telecommunications regulation mechanism and the use of Ukraine's radio frequency resources. At a committee meeting, the bill was considered, but the committee did not agree with some of the proposed changes related to the transfer of functions from the central executive authority in the field of communication to the National Communications Regulatory Commission to confirm the conformity of the technical means of telecommunications. As the author of this bill, I agreed with these comments. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending and supplementing certain laws of Ukraine on the basis of the exclusion of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the first article from its text. [[Registration number 7344]] The draft decision of the Supreme Council, which is proposed for adoption, takes into account the comments made by the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Dear colleagues, please accept this bill in the first reading, taking into account the Committee's observations. If there is no objection to the national MPs of Ukraine, I ask you to vote on this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u157	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Yuri Borisovich Krock.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Yury Kruk, Yulia Timoshenko, 140th constituency. The proposed bill on amendments and additions to certain Ukrainian laws, registration number 7344, proposes a number of amendments and additions to the Laws on Telecommunications, Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine and the Code on Administrative Offences. [[on telecommunications, use of Ukrainian radio frequency]] The deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc reviewed the bill and decided that it should be adopted as a basis for the first reading. The bill aims to further improve the regulation of telecommunications and the use of radio frequency resources in Ukraine, and to eliminate minor disagreements between laws that regulate that area. It is proposed that the Telecommunications Act remove the term “telecommunity provider” because it does not have a meaningful burden. It is the case that a telecommunications provider does not have the right under the law to maintain and operate telecommunications networks at all. It is proposed to add the phrase “as well as final equipment” to the term “telecommunity technology”, since such equipment, which is connected and interacts with the telecommunications network, must meet all the requirements set by the telecommunications technology. No such requirement is currently provided for in existing legislation. This precludes the possibility of telephone equipment and other final equipment being available on Ukraine's telecommunications market, which is not tested for its ability to interact with Ukrainian telecommunications networks. Article 15, paragraph 5, of the Telecommunication Communication on the powers of the central executive authority in relation to the implementation of technical policy on the provision and standardization of the words “in support of appropriate telecommunications equipment” as it relates to technical regulation in the field of telecommunications rather than management. Drafting of the project does not require additional costs from the State budget and will contribute to the budget through telecommunications grants and the use of Ukrainian radio frequency. In the light of the above, I also believe that the bill can be adopted as a basis for first reading, given that there was only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u160	In view of the fact that we had only one comment on the committee in question, I believe that this committee, this observation, was not the registration of the NHRIs, but the Mintranslink, and the author agreed with that observation, I think that the bill is not large enough to be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u161	Thank you. We'll vote. Dear colleagues! Then I put the vote on adoption on the basis of the deletion of article 1, paragraph 2.3, part 1, with which the author agreed, and this is in the committee's decisions, except for these two paragraphs, the law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the telecommunications sector and use of Ukrainian radio frequency]] Registration number is 7344. Please vote. Please be more friendly. To 238. Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we've taken into account the committee's proposals, the committee doesn't object, can we put it right as a law? Then we vote for adoption as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine, except for paragraphs 2.3, Part 1, article 1. [[on the telecommunications sector and use of Ukrainian radio frequency]] Please vote as a matter of law. To 253. Copy that. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on the review of court decisions]] Can we vote for him? Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the review of court decisions]] Registration number is 7088. Please be supportive. For 236. The Law was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the State Special Transport Service]] Registration number is 7795. Can we vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the State Special Transport Service]] Registration number is 7795. The point is that we have transferred the railway forces to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and some technical issues need to be settled. Please vote. I vote, I vote. For 222. Dear colleagues, I answer Yuri Fedorovich: I vote because my card is here now. I am very clear on the Constitution: everyone is voting for himself. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? Let's have a vote, dear fellows. I suggest. Now the vote will be clarified. To -228. We're back. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the State Special Transport Service]] Registration number 7795. Please be supportive. For 250. Copy that. In general, can we vote? No, there is a denial. There's a denial, we won't. Let's not get excited. Yes, there is a draft decree on the acceptance of sites and the redemption of land. Registration number 7035. As reported by Leszczenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Please, let's take a closer look. What we can do is let it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u162	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It is proposed by the Agrarian Policy Committee to draft a decree on the acceptance of sites for the location and redemption of land. In view of the repeated application of the draft decree, the committee, Adam Ivanovich, makes a proposal on a procedure. If one of the objects called me is not supported, it can be removed from the general list and voted for, and then considered. Hence, it is now proposed that the location of such objects be agreed upon. Expansion of the uterine discharge and transmission of the power line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u163	Volodymyr Alexiovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I think we should accept the offer, that is, it will slowly read and, if you look at an object, raise your hand. Then, as it were, we will remove it and we will separate it. Okay. Please slowly read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u164	The first object of the expansion of the decommissioning and transfer of the electricity line to the State Open Shareholder Society is the central enrichment plant “Colossnikowska” of the VAT State Holding Company “Makeev Coal” in leases of 19.4 hectares of land with a term of 50 years and 4 hectares of land for a period of 3 years. The second object. The location of a small hydroelectric power plant on the land of the Rakhiv State Forestry Company, the Rakhiv district of Zakarpatsk, a closed stock company called Regional Invest, in a lease of 50 years. Third object. Exploitation wells number 57 and number 62 of the east-poltavian gas condensate of the birthplace of the daughter company Ukrgaz Extraction, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine for the gas industry management of the gas industry in rent of 1.17 hectares of land for a period of 25 years and 4.69 hectares of land for a period of 2 years. Fifth object. Exploitation well number 92 of Solokhiev gas condensate of the birthplace of the daughter of the company Ukrgaskoravanje, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine for the gas industry management of Poltava gas production in leases of 0.43 hectares of land for 25 years and 2.73 hectares of land for a period of 2 years. Sixth object. Exploitation well number 123 of the gas condensate plant for the child company “Krugaznaft mining” NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” for the gas industry “Poltawaza mining” in leases of 0.17 hectares of land for 25 years and 2.37 hectares of land for a period of 2 years. Seventh object. A career in the mining of peat on stockpiled land the village council of the Gordnjan district of Chernigiv district of the limited liability “Energosurs” leased for 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u165	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u166	115.6 hectares of valuable land. This is the case with regard to the location of the objects. And chapter two. Agree to the ransom of the land. Azova Oil Company, a land plot of 11.16 ha was leased to him for 5 years for the construction and operation of an oil refinery and for the maintenance of existing buildings and buildings owned by him in the territory of the Kasian Rural Council of the Donetsk Region. And another object for a land ransom is a joint Ukrainian-Indian enterprise. 3,49 ha of non-agricultural land is leased for 5 years for the construction and operation of a canned plant and construction works owned by it in the area of the Bilijeva City Council of the Odessa Region. Full - scale materials meet the requirements of land legislation. Agreed with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code with the relevant executive authorities and local authorities, landowners or land users, environmental and sanitary authorities, city buildings, architecture and cultural heritage protection. The materials provided have undergone a state - owned survey. The committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt the decree as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u167	Please, let's get to the point. It's a maple microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! It's a very difficult document. And you understand very well that according to legislation, the Supreme Council approves this kind of distribution, to say land, especially valuable land. So I want to draw your attention to this position. We pass it on, we vote in favour of handing over a career to pick up a peat on Smí’s reserves. The village council. 115 ha we're handing over to a limited liability company for rent for 10 years. I'm telling you, in 10 years, they're going to scrape out all the peat there is. They're going to sell it to the right and to the left, and that's all that's going to be left, and this wound is going to stay in this Smychin village council. I can imagine every single point of what huge shadow money stands for in all of this. I would just suggest, really, we should approve these things, I understand, but I feel like, let's just say, I'm not morally or legally ready to vote for it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u169	Let's delete and vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u170	We've already deleted it. Klimpush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I also really want to join that warning. Too complex a document, too responsible for these decisions, and they are viewed with great uncertainty. Let's take a quiet look at them. There are deputies from the districts who should really be held accountable. One hectare today in particularly valuable lands in the Rukhiv region, it costs today, if you multiply, 1 million. The bracelet, you know, they're asking for that kind of money for the land. And at the same time, we're just doing it. I'd like to stay out of this. Today, a very important document, allow us to study, get acquainted with the reasons, and then make decisions. I ask you, colleagues, to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u172	We're moving out of the Rukhiv district. Weak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u173	Sergey Slabeko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention. Now we are reading, there are, indeed, limited - liability societies. I'm taking a package of documents and I'd like to understand who's behind these societies, who's the founder, who's the statutory capital behind them. They take the earth for such an enormous period of time. We're looking at other societies, societies, and so are a number of questions, and I would think that this is a question that could be presented more deeply. The story of every society that it represents, how it can claim for such a long period of time by the developer and user of this land, the developer of beneficial fossils. So, dear friends, I would still ask you to understand that we are not saying that it is not necessary to vote, but to postpone this vote at least in the morning, if there are more MPs who might be in their territories and major districts who are, look at these objects and might make their proposals accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, who are behind whom and who the Society is leading, will now give the vote absolutely everything. So don't worry, it'll all be clear here. I think your colleagues, you're right, you're absolutely right, it's too serious and extremely serious. The more we see from this list of determinations, the more I do not want to offend those who want to take this land, the more serious object that really is. the object of life - sustaining activity. It's either energy or it's others. And most of the time, there are businesses that have their own profits and profits. That's one thing. The other one. You don't have to blame us for doing this in a hurry. Not in a hurry, it's the second time we've looked at it. We haven't made this decision with you once, and maybe two or three months ago we didn't take it. I mean, we had time. But as far as it is, and we've been exchanging thoughts, the will of the hall to decide with this document. That's why I'm voting. Wait, please, I'll bet on it. Is there a point to objects? Well, we've already discussed what we're talking about here is removal, not discussion. Discussion. What are you talking about? If you have an object, I'll give you my word. Melniczuk, what object are you removing?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u175	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich! As far as I'm aware, I've signed up for the speech, but since you gave me your word or my remarks, I do have a point, because we, the Supreme Council, are being set up. Look, for 25 years. The earth is especially precious and so forth. Is there a conclusion? Experts and so on. We know about the Viznicke district of Cherniewec, where they've been mined for 10 years, and no one understands where taxes go, how they're paid, who's behind it, and so on? Simply put, the Supreme Council is set up to make us guilty. Therefore, the faction of the Socialist Party will not support the decree, there will be no bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u176	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I was just saying that you and I are about to make a responsible, informed decision. And I can see in the hall, believe me, and I can tell you, what it will be like, don't worry. Cibenko and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u177	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction of Cibenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to make a request to remove from this document that chapter concerning the acceptance of the redemption of land. What's more, it's a very revealing situation. Azov Oil Company buys out parts of land and a joint Ukrainian-Indian company called Korasa. So on behalf of the faction, I'm making a proposal to delete this part of the document, i.e. the failure to accept the purchase of these land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-30-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on acceptance as a basis. On the ground for now, and then we're going to delete if we're going to take it as a base. On the basis of a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the acceptance of sites for the location and redemption of land. Registration number 7035. I'd like to make a statement. For 55. Do you understand? Thank you. It's a non-adopted decision. The decision is not taken, the decision is not taken and the decision is rejected accordingly, for this is the second time we have considered it. On this, dear fellows, we will finish our work. The morning session is closed. Then we have work on committees and factions, groups. I would like to remind you that at 3 p.m. we have to gather representatives of the factions, the relevant factions of the budget review committees tomorrow. Tomorrow we start work, as usual, at 10 a.m. Good luck.
