ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:42]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Victor Mikolaiovich King. Let us welcome him and wish him success and health. Please listen to information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session of March 2, 2005. Five issues of day - to - day order, 10 bills, were considered. As a result of their consideration, one law was passed, seven bills were adopted on the first reading on the basis, and two bills were rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the withdrawal from the Union's parliamentary group and the accession to the faction of the Socialist Party of the Ukraine of Goshovsky, as well as of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine of Igor Franzuk, as well as of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Nemirovsky. And another ad, distinguished colleagues. In accordance with Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8. 3 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, the political parties of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherskina, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 1 March 2005, I inform you of the election of the leader of the faction of the bloc of Yulia, Timoshenko, the authorized representative of the faction of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovovich. Authorized representative of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko Seminogu Anatolia Ivanovich Dear colleagues, the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual national deputies is being considered. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev reports. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed and previously supported 12 applications personally submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, who were appointed to positions in government and government authorities, and stated them accordingly in order to suspend their parliamentary powers for the term. Therefore, the following draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy are being submitted to your consideration. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a proposal: I will only read the names for the adoption of individual decrees and conduct separate ballots.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u3	Is there no objection, Your Honorable People's Deputies, if we vote on each individual decree? Yes, please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u4	The first draft of the Order is to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy Tomenka Mikoli Volodymirovic. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7134 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Tomenka Mikoli Volodymirovic. Please vote. [[10:10:13]] For 342 I'll take the order. Please, Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Oksana's biological vision Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u7	Yes, dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7135 on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrovna. [[10:10:52]] For 352 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u8	Pauline Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7,136, will be put to a standstill by the National Deputy of Ukraine Pavlenko Jurija Alexiyovich. [[10:11:26]] For 351 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u10	The puppet of Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u11	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7137, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, is put to the vote. [[10:11:57]] For 342 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u12	The fisherman Oleg Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u13	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7138 on the suspension of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Ribauk Oleg Borisovich, is put to the vote. [[10:12:33]] For three hundred I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u14	Kirilenka Viacheslava Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u15	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7139, on the suspension of the mandate of Ukraine’s national deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[10:13:07]] For 342 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u16	The cook of Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u17	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7,140, on the suspension of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich. [[10:13:36]] For 339 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u18	Immortal Roman Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u19	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7141, is submitted to the vote on the suspension for the term of office of Ukraine's Immortal Roman Petrovic. [[10:14:06]] For 351 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u20	Ignatina Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u21	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7142, on the suspension of the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Ignatenko Pavel Mikolaiovich, is submitted to the vote. [[10:14:38]] For 351 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u22	Trelyakowa Aleksandra Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u23	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Tretlyakow Alexander Yuriovich is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7143]] [[10:15:09]] For 351 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u24	The Baranjasian Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u25	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Aleksandar Petrovich, is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7144]] [[10:15:44]] For 347 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u26	And Shandry Volodymira Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u27	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Shandria Volodymira Mikolaiovich is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7145]] [[10:16:17]] For 355 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In view of the fact that I have saved 25 minutes of reporting on draft regulations and in connection with the agreement at the last meeting of the Conciliation Council, I would ask for a brief briefing on the state of affairs in this direction, that is, how we will continue to deal with the very difficult, difficult question of combining individual government officials today with the duties of Ukraine’s national deputies. Thank you. Dear colleagues! As you know, all the work in the executive branch and in other government offices has passed since the last presidential election of 41 national deputies. The President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, as is known, have immediately concluded their parliamentary mandates. Now you and I have suspended the mandate of 12 more of our colleagues in the first place. So today, I stress, the violation of the Constitution and the law of Ukraine on the status of the People's Deputy combine their positions with the 27 national MPs. Of these, eight are in government, five are in other government bodies, including Zinchenko, Poshenko, Turchinov, Steckov, and Greens, who heads the Institute of Strategic Research. In addition, the heads of the district government are now serving 14 Ukrainian national deputies. That's why the committee made a decision yesterday and asked all of these Ukrainian national deputies by March 10 to decide where they were going to work. I think that the President of Ukraine, first of all as a guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, the more we know, the more we are told about the very, very honest authorities, the more we will take the necessary steps to ensure that the national deputies of Ukraine, and now the high-ranking officials of the state, take the appropriate decisions on the establishment of the powers of the national MPs. A few words, honourable colleagues, about other Ukrainian national deputies who have been congruent with positions for a long time, and on which we have dealt with a number of questions at the Committee on Rules of Procedure. So repeated a statement by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Blochin, was submitted to the Court of Appeal of Kiev on February 22, this year. The hearing was assigned to Judge Amelini on February 28, but in connection with the lack of appearance at the trial of the national deputy Blochin, the trial was postponed to March 10. The ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 14 December last year in a case filed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Satsuka has gained legal power and needs to be enforced, i.e. the corresponding legal breakdown of the labour relations between the Supreme Council and the national deputy Satsuka. An update of the statement by the Head of the Supreme Council at the Kyiv Court of Appeal on the location of the posts of the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ononopenk Vasil Vasil Vasilovic. For a long time, there is no solution to the question of the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Moysik Volodymira Romanović, who, on March 12, 2003, applied to the Head of the Supreme Council for his dismissal as Judge of the Supreme Court, in connection with his resignation and election as Ukrainian national deputy. On his release, by the way, there is a decision of the Supreme Council of Justice of March 26, 2003, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy of March 17, 2004, which should bring this matter up for consideration by the Supreme Council. Despite repeated reminders to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich, this issue is not without reason for consideration by the Supreme Council. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Rules, the parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u29	Allow the committee head to finish the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to invite the Head of the Supreme Council to submit to the Supreme Council a draft decision on the dismissal of a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with his resignation. I thank the distinguished colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u31	Thank you, then. With motive? Please. Have you had any questions? There were, then there were no questions, for reasons. Thank you. Please, if you have a question, write it down. Three minutes to ask, please. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you, would we have the same approach to all deputies? Now we see, I certainly agree with the fact that there should be no reconciliation, in the Constitution it is written that way, neither the heads of the district governments nor the ministers. We have an interesting approach. Mr. Kluev led the committee for almost a year, and the vice-premier was and applied, and then sent it. And I wanted to find the answer to that question: Who is interested in this development? Will we have the same attitude for all? There will continue to be those who are white deputies and blacks, to whom will there be a different attitude? I would ask you that the attitude towards everyone should be exactly the same, all of you should be empowered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Rules of Procedure has provided you with, on a number of occasions, personal answers to your requests, as well as to contact groups, entire groups of national MPs on this issue, and in particular the question of the prior reconciliation of positions by the national MP, Clewiv. Following the initiative of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, an appropriate decision was taken on the recommendation of the Chief of the Supreme Council to appeal to the Kyiv Court of Appeal with an appropriate submission. Why the court did not consider the matter in accordance with the Supreme Council’s decision, it is already a matter for the judicial branch of power and especially for the Kyiv Court of Appeal. But by no means to the Committee on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u34	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear reporter, yesterday on television, I saw the joyous face of Prime Minister Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, and she handed out the government credentials and implied that she would not give out the government’s credentials if the respective deputies failed to give proper authority. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question is related. Have you not considered the Committee's proposals for the release from office of officials and governors who have been and until now are under the status of Ukrainian National Deputies and are in violation of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u36	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich for two questions. First of all, I think, well, hopefully, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, too, will probably be doing a proper job to have government officials determine their positions in the near future. The other one. I said yesterday that the committee had taken a decision and sent a letter to the Ukrainian National Deputies, who now hold positions in the state administrations and are in other positions to determine their work by March 10 either on a permanent basis in the Supreme Council or in executive authorities or in other state structures. The committee will then, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, if not all national deputies submit a request for credentials, MPs, to take a decision with a request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make an appropriate submission to the Court of Appeal of Kiev on the termination of the parliamentary powers of such national deputies in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u37	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich, time is up. Thank you. For reasons, please write this down. Three minutes of motive, sign up. Please sign up for motive. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Too bad. Human resources issues do not take into account such issues as the commission of crime, their education, their practical training and so forth. So I would like the executive authorities to take these matters into account by combining this with the plenipotentiaries of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u39	Yes, Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u40	Samofalov, “Regions of Ukraine”, Party of Regions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! There is an interesting situation today: there is a Constitution that today clearly defines how members are reconciled with their responsibilities. Today, the Supreme Council is supposed to vote on the draft law, 226 votes. Of these, 15 votes were cast by those deputies who remained accomplices. Is it legitimate for the Supreme Council to adopt legislation? And the second. The Ministry of Justice, which is the co-signers, sign such documents, are they equally legitimate in the decisions taken by the Minister? These are the questions, I think we need to put our Powers in the legal field and have clear answers to them so that there are no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! Until the MP was appointed, we did not make the right decision, and his vote was legitimate. The same applies to his signature under the documents as a minister. Unfortunately, the matter is not settled by law. You know that in the changes that we have made to the Constitution, there is a more clearly defined procedure to reconcile the positions of a deputy and to work in the executive structures of power. Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u42	I ask you to give Andrew the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u43	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I would like to say first that I also support the position that there can be no difference between the accomplices who were in the previous Cabinet of Ministers and between those who are now, because equality of law, equality before the law must have everyone. And I'd like to literally say two words about speaking here as a representative of the Communist faction, who often comes out of the rostrum, and remind you that when you respect others, you respect yourself. There is a Prime Minister in Ukraine, and if he thinks he has a "premier", he needs to know that we have a Prime Minister to think with our own head. And then it's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u45	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u46	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We should not reproach those deputies who in their own time were not authorized to do so because they worked in conditions where they had no guarantee that they would work there. Today we have a different configuration, today we have a changed power in Ukraine. And I think that the steps that the MP is taking in the process of developing powers should be supported in this room. And you don't have to blame those who haven't been able to write a statement yet. I think it'll be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u47	Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In its time, Zinchenko Alexander Alexiyovich was expelled from the ranks of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine for violating statutory requirements. [[united]] Prior to that, Dustenko Peter had been removed from the air force. I'm addressing the President of Ukraine today. On the spot of Independence, when you were aspiring for yourself, you said that you would come to power and abide by the rules of the Constitution. I wonder, Mr. President, how long will the Secretary of the National Security Council of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, be in charge of the budgetary committee and the budgetary process? I wonder if there's a situation anywhere in the world where the country is a substitute for the Supreme Council. This is the first example for Ukrainian society, as the new power of the ball of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information that you know. On December 14, 2004, Kiev’s Court of Appeal suspended the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Satsuk Volodymira Mikolaiovich. Such a decision in accordance with the law could have been brought before the Supreme Court of Ukraine within a month of its proclamation. Yet, on December 15, 2004, Vladimir Satsuk applied to the Kyiv Court of Appeal for a review of the decision under the new circumstances. On February 17, 2005, the Kyiv Court of Appeal approved that Satsuku Volodymyr was denied the application. As noted in the adoption, she may be charged in a cassation order with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. On 2 March 2005, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine referred to the approval of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 17 February 2005 on the refusal to comply with Satsuka's claims as valid, and adopted a decision recommending to the Chief of the Supreme Council to act in accordance with current legislation. Taking into account the committee’s decision and established parliamentary practice, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to release Vladimir Satsuk from office as head of the Air Transport Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transportation, housing and communications will be issued. The draft Amendment Regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On certain measures for legislative enforcement of constitutional reform in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. [[on the draft laws on the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] Vasil Vasilovich. Ah, Mikola Oneschuk will report, the first deputy head of the committee. Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u50	Reverend Head! Deputies! Just about a year ago, i.e. on March 3, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on certain legislative measures to ensure constitutional reform is the main one in the drafting of draft laws on Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, defined a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of Ukraine's laws and amending the Constitution. However, the consolidation of many of the bills, apart from the very Constitution itself under this commission, in the conditions that I stress today, have come together, essentially complicates the legislative regulation of a set of principles for society and the state of issues. A particularly unacceptable situation is the legal regulation of the powers and organization of the activities of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The absence of current constitutional laws on the President of Ukraine and on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not contribute to the proper implementation by the constitutional authorities of their powers, since, in fact, the persons in question are implementing a number of their constitutional powers without a statutory order of implementation, which is in direct contravention of the requirements of articles 19, 22 and 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy in this regard, I would like to stress this, has initiated preparations for the third reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the President of Ukraine and preparations for the consideration of the proposal of the former President of Ukraine Kuchma for the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[This is Registration 0936.]] [[Registration number of bill 0893]] In view of what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy asks the Supreme Council to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain measures to ensure the implementation of constitutional reform in Ukraine since 3 March 2004 number 1568 and, in particular, to delete in paragraph 1 the first words relating to the granting of the constitutional commission the right to prepare and submit to Parliament draft laws on the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by authorizing the Committee of Legal Policy accordingly. At the same time, the same decision is given to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy in a weekly term, and please note this, within a week's time limit, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the amended and completed bills and to include in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council the above-mentioned bills prepared by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Please sign up for three minutes. Lighten up. Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u52	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Mikola Vasilovich, in principle, it is quite logical that your committee should have worked on these laws, but the interim committee preparing the draft Constitution actually fulfilled its mandate and the changes made. Well, that's what local self-government predicts. The question is, What is it? Could you simply, irrespective of this determination, bring these questions to the attention and conclusion? That's one question. And secondly, is it enough just the law about the President and the Cabinet of Ministers? Perhaps there are a number of other legal acts that have been taken over by this temporary commission that both your brothers and our Committees of the Supreme Council should take?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that this is about not canceling the decision to form a temporary special commission. If the Supreme Council finds that such a step is appropriate, it is obviously to be considered further. And only the deletion of one point, which concerns that this Commission should also consider legislation on the President and the Cabinet of Ministers in addition to its own constitutional bills. That's the first one. Secondly, I share your point of view that in fact the Constitutional Commission has carried out its tasks, if, above all, the process of creation except that you and I have yet to consider in the final approval regime of the autumn of Law 3207. But with regard to other bills, such as the Cabinet of Ministers and the President and the central executive authorities, it seems that the Committee should actually do so. But since there is the will of the Committee, the will of Parliament, which was reflected in the decree, that it is the competence and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission, the Committee is limited in its ability to do so. That is why we ask for permission today to do so by making appropriate changes to the decree of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u54	Please, Ponomarenko Georgie.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u55	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Mikola Vasilovich, a bill on the President of Ukraine and on the Cabinet of Ministers, is one of the most important, probably after the adoption of changes to the Constitution. The Constitutional Commission is made up of representatives of all factions. You can see how qualified she was in the process of making changes to the Constitution. It seems to me that handing over to the committee is a right, but I don't understand what you might have been up to. Pass it on to this committee, I think in that week's time she can process these bills and bring it up to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u56	The committee concluded that the political developments that were taking place, and you know that they had a significant impact on the legislative process, including the legislative process. But the Supreme Council committees were not affected by these events, and they continued and worked today. So once again, I would like to point out that we have initiated all the proposals that have come and prepared these bills for consideration. By the way, we are also motivated by the position of the government as well as the President when it comes to feeling a certain lack of proper legislative regulation of their activities. As for the Constitutional Commission, which is actually more fully represented in fact and reflects the position of the entire Parliament, I think there are no difficulties here, because the positions of groups and factions will be directly reflected when the bill is considered in Parliament. Moreover, the committee is ready to accept these suggestions for consideration. But I don't rule out the events that you're talking about. And the committee, if we don't make a positive decision today, is ready to forward all the work to the constitutional commission. We are concerned that there is simply no movement of right in this matter. And that's why the committee suggested this way of doing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u57	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to stress that the draft regulation proposes to amend the Supreme Council's decree on some legislative measures to ensure constitutional reform in Ukraine, which was adopted on March 3rd last year. As you and I understand, the draft laws on the President of Ukraine and on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are constituents. Intangible parts of the implementation, the completion of constitutional reform in Ukraine. I would add to that and it is the drafting of the law or the regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the main domestic law, the organization of Parliament's activities. The authors of the draft regulation base their proposal on the fact that, according to the above-mentioned Supreme Council ruling, a really temporary special commission has been set up for the drafting of draft laws on the President of Ukraine and on the Cabinet of Ministers. We think that's true. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, there is unfortunately no regulation of comments and suggestions from March 1st this year to this draft. But the Committee on Rules of Procedure discussed this issue first of all from the fact that the designated temporary special committee consisted of, I would stress, representatives of all MPs, parliamentary MPs and groups. And the decision on the drafting and adoption of these bills, including the bills, was one of the major results of the dialogue of the political forces, which took place in order to produce harmonized approaches and proposals in their preparation. Therefore, the artificial removal of a temporary special commission from the drafting of these bills may lead to a breach of certain obligations that the relevant political powers in Parliament have assumed. The Committee therefore considers it necessary for the Supreme Council to give a protocol commission to the interim commission of inquiry to expedite the drafting of the bills and to bring them before the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a timely manner. And the draft Decision, which was made by the members of the Committee on Legal Policy, is not supported by our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u59	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, this is how we heard the arguments of the drafters of the bill and the arguments of the profile committee. Really, be careful, there were questions here. Mikola Vasilovic explained, once again, why the committee cannot take the initiative to attend the Supreme Council meetings on these bills, on the Cabinet of Ministers and on the President of Ukraine. It can't come out for the simple reason that the committees, the Committees' knowledge is taken not by the Supreme Council's decision, but by the Head's order approved, because unfortunately we haven't been able to make the appropriate decision, which is responsible for any committee or committee. And here's about these two specific bills, when we talked about constitutional reform, it was a special decree of the Supreme Council. And in order for the committee to be able to come up with proposals, we need to cancel this point of order. That's one thing. But there's a second -- more probably a principle. And when there was a recent meeting Monday between the heads of government and representatives of the MPs and the Supreme Council groups, there was an agreement that the Cabinet of Ministers, as the most interested legal person, would submit to the Supreme Council a draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't think or believe that those draft laws that have been in the Supreme Council for years will be supported by the Cabinet of Ministers or the President. And so it would probably be logical not to rush back to the fact that for almost 10 years, I probably don't exaggerate, for about 10 years, it's already in the Supreme Council, but rather to wait for the Cabinet of Ministers to submit these bills to the Supreme Council for consideration as soon as possible. And the second. And then, probably in view of the fact that this is actually going to be followed by a constitutional commission working, there will be no need, as it were, to disrupt the adoption of these laws, or the commission will promptly consider them and submit them to the consideration of the Supreme Council. Here I felt it necessary to make such an explanation before we were determined. I therefore put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on some of the legislative measures for constitutional reform in Ukraine, registration number 7078. [[on the draft laws on the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:24]] Z-62 It's a non-adopted decision. The draft decision on Ukrainian Government Day on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine is pending. Here we have two bills: 6486 and 6486-1. Please, is Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich there? Please, three minutes. Get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u60	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, the honourable ones present! The insurance market in Ukraine has potential for further development. But due to insufficient legislative and executive efforts, the insurance market still does not accumulate a large amount of investment resources and does not have a significant impact on the process of redistributing gross domestic product to the side of the increase. The insurance sector in the future has to ensure that the gross domestic product is redistributed at the level of the developed countries, in which the figure is 8-12 percent. In Ukraine, unfortunately, this indicator is much lower. In view of the fact that insurance is one of the sectors of the economy in which major macro-indicators have been growing in recent years, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with a view to developing the insurance market, has adopted Decree No. 98 of 02.02.2001 on the approval of the Ukrainian insurance market development programme for 2001-2004. In view of the above, I believe it is necessary to instruct the Ukrainian government to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the status of the Ukrainian insurance market development programme for 2001 - 2004 and the plan for the further development of the insurance market in Ukraine for the next 10 years. The consideration of this issue on the government’s day will help to find common solutions between the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address urgent insurance issues. So I'm asking you to hold this government day in May 2005, not March. Because, as I know for April and June, two days of government social affairs will be assigned, and in May we will be able to spend the government's day on economic issues, namely, the government's day on WTO and the government's planned day with the agenda "On the current state and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine." Please have your support. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u61	Thank you, Mikhail Markovich. Have a seat, please. Morozov Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u62	My colleague Mikhailo Dobkin has already added the basics, so I'm going to be very brief. Since the beginning of this year, insurance has become an integral part of every Ukrainian citizen’s activity. First, the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability entered into force. It's different. The Nonstate Pension Insurance Act provides for the participation of life insurance insurers in cumulative pension insurance. At the same time, there are certain factors that hinder the full development of the insurance sector. The first factor is the relatively low efficiency of the control body's activities in the area of insurance, the Commission for Settlement of Financial Services Markets. Another factor is the lack of a systematic approach to insurance legislation that requires generalization and systematization in the insurance code. The consideration of the above - mentioned issues at the bottom of the government will facilitate the search for a common level of government and the Supreme Council on the solution of insurance problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, from the Committee of Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! The Finance and Banking Profile Committee did not consider the draft regulation at its meeting. Therefore, after seeing this issue on a daily basis today, we consulted the members of the Committee and came to a general decision that the Government's day on this issue was premature. Project 6486 and project 6486-1. We see a step-by-step review of the development of the insurance market. First, hold a broad discussion in the Sectoral Committee with the representatives of the Gocomisisia on the regulation of the financial services market by the people's deputies, representatives of insurance companies. And consider on the same committee all the issues that have already accumulated. Afterwards, submit all the drafts worked out for parliamentary hearings and only carry out the next stage of the Government's Day. The Committee therefore recommends that the issue be postponed to November of the month, or that the two rulings be rejected at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how we exchanged thoughts. I remind you once again that in March, which is proposed by a single bill of decree, and in May, which is proposed by another draft of the decree, and in principle, and in the first report, it is agreed that for May, we have the government's planned days. And each of you knows very well, if we are considering more than one issue on Government Day, we are practically not considering any of the issues, for both the first and the second issues are dealt with by the haste and efficiency of such days the government is small. But the authors have the right, as it were, to raise questions, so the Supreme Council's will is to determine. You heard the thought of a profile committee. I am voting on the adoption of the Government's Day Decision on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine. Take off the vote for now. Dokkin, I understand he also agreed to May, right? So now we're going to vote with you just one regulation, 6486-1, where the dad of the government's day is set for May, because the two authors agree to that. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:57:44]] For-153 Not accepted. We are considering a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings "The perspectives for the European integration of Ukraine and the reality of participating in the formation of the single economic space of the republics of Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Ukraine" [[Registration number 7105]] Report by Šurma Igor Mihajlovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u66	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Strengthening Ukraine’s external economic ties is certainly strategic in increasing its status as an equal partner. What about the economic security of the state? The new leadership announced Ukraine's desire to seek membership in the World Trade Organization, NATO, the European Union in the shortest possible terms. At the same time, the leadership of the European Union has made it clear that not only in the coming years, but also in the accessible future, Ukraine's EU membership cannot go. So the question naturally arises: "How appropriate is it in such a form as is done by the President of Ukraine and by government leaders to address Ukraine's desire for the European Union. With regard to Ukraine’s accession to NATO, there are no clear motivations. Would such a membership make Ukraine safer, or would it increase external threats, or would it agree with Ukrainian society? There is no doubt about the fact that the public opinion of Ukraine is now largely set against joining NATO. Active attempts to involve Ukraine in NATO can lead to an increase in its division in society, which has so clearly demonstrated itself in the presidential elections. The faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine, taking into account the perspectives that Ukraine is waiting for, believes that at this time a number of senior officials have simultaneously talked about reviewing the conditions for a single economic space. [[united]] Since these conditions are already ratified, a similar review will in any case require the most urgent consideration in Parliament. It is also obvious that the topics of Ukraine’s entry into and entry into the single economic space cannot be considered in isolation from one another. This set of issues requires consideration of all the pluses and minuses of that or another solution in the population. And finally, from what the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the Constitution, determines the basics of foreign policy and from the fact that the new Government has already stated its intention to fundamentally review the principles of foreign policy. The faction of Ukraine's social-democratic party insists on parliamentary hearings in the near future regarding Ukraine's participation in a single economic space with problems of Euro-integration, with a view to clarifying the basic principles of Ukraine's foreign policy. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u67	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee: First Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration - Zaruibinski Oleg Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party faction. Well, first of all, it's a little line. I think that the angry Phillips against NATO are just inappropriate here, because the title of the Regulation "The Perspectives of Ukraine's European Integration." and beyond the text, not Euro-Atlantic integration. I think my colleagues are figuring out the difference between Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. As for the decision directly, I would like to say on behalf of the committee that the draft decision was included in the agenda of the day in violation of article 2.4. 1 and 6.3. 1 The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which require the inclusion in the agenda of only the issues on which the documents are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, i.e. those discussed by the Committee designated by the Chief. The draft decree of the Supreme Council was not considered by the Committee on European Integration for objective reasons. The fact is that the project was registered on February 23rd, and according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 24.02 was sent to the committee. The draft decree came to the committee on Friday, February 25, and was assigned according to a clear procedure for consideration at the nearest meeting scheduled for March 9, 2005. In addition, the draft decrees do not specify the date and time of parliamentary hearings, which contradicts the fourth sentence of paragraph 4 of Parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 11 December 2003. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had already approved the decision to hold two parliamentary hearings in May 2005. Listen to the names of these hearings: "Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine" and the second "Children's Rights in Ukraine, Protection of Motherhood and Childhood". It should be noted that much earlier than this project, which had just been announced, i.e. it was February 23rd, there were proposed and registered parliamentary hearings of projects also in May months "The prospects for the development of the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine" and "Decentralisation of power in Ukraine: the empowerment of local self-government". But for unknown reasons, they did not come to us, although they had been registered much earlier, and they did not come to us for consideration. The same bill, prepared a week ago, was already in our session room. Note, too, that in recent times there have been more frequent cases of individual projects appearing in the order of the day immediately after registration, sometimes contrary to the rules of the Rules. So, in summary, I want to say that the committee does not refuse to consider the matter, but this should be purely according to procedure, and on March 9, we will consider it, and only then can it be placed in the hall. Please reject, or consider, one that is illegally placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u69	Thank you. The Supreme Council does everything legally, we write the laws. So don't blame us. And the thing is, you, Oleg, you're on the consensus board and you see that this is the decision of the Conciliation Council. Exchanged thoughts. I put to the vote a decree on parliamentary hearings "The perspectives of the European integration of Ukraine and the reality of participating in the formation of the Single Economic Area of the Republics of Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Ukraine", registration number 7105. Please vote. [[11:05:40]] For-142 Alexandrovska, with motives. I repeat, for reasons from the place, this is not a discussion of a question. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u70	I don't know why one minute, because we've signed up for this, and the Rules have three minutes for the speakers. I would like to support the proposal that Parliament should be brought to Parliament in the form of parliamentary hearings on this issue, because the issue of external economic activity, external economic relations for Ukraine, is a strategic issue for the development of Ukraine. The fate of all those living here depends on the solution to this question, which we will answer. I therefore believe that these issues should be publicly discussed and that arguments should be heard. It was said that the question of entry, the question of Euro-integration, the question of NATO was allegedly unrelated. It's very connected. There are, of course, legal examples that individual countries are members of NATO but are not members of the European Union, there are other examples where countries are members of the European Union are not members of NATO. But we understand with you that the attitude towards Ukraine will be completely different. Because no one will strengthen the economic partner if they do not see a military, political ally in this partner. And the fact that such demands will be made to Ukraine is quite clear. And that's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u71	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! Thank you. Then let us listen to the committee’s proposal, and let them consider it at the committee meeting on March 9th! There was an offer. Don't shout, don't shout! There was a committee proposal that they would consider and make their proposal and then we'd figure it out. There is a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order entitled "Implementing the budgetary process in Ukraine in the context of the analysis and forecasting of the economic and social development of the State in 2005", Bill 7106. Report by Šurma Igor Mihajlovich. Prepare from the Suprun Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u72	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] According to the adopted 2005 budget resolution, budgetary policy in Ukraine should be directed towards increasing the level of budgetary balance and transparency and increasing the impact of budgetary regulation on the social economic development of the State and the administrative and territorial units. In view of the fact that the newly created government has announced plans to review the adopted State budget for 2005, as well as plans to replenish the State budget with a loan of about 30 billion dollars. The issue of effective government control at every stage of the budgetary process and budgetary legislation is a matter of law. On the other hand, in accordance with chapter 9 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, changes to Ukraine’s State Budget may be made in cases where estimates of the projections of Ukraine’s macroeconomic and social development indicators are rejected, and in the case of changes in the structure of government budgets. All these questions need to be clearly defined. In view of the above, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine proposes to hold parliamentary hearings, during which the government must give a clear answer to the question to Parliament and society why it is necessary to make changes to the budget, which is exactly what it is intended to spend the additional costs from which it is expected to receive them, and whether these changes will contribute to Ukraine becoming a social state. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u73	Yes, thank you. Please, the First Deputy Head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! An extremely important issue is being addressed now with regard to amendments to the State Budget Act. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget at its March 2nd meeting discussed the draft decree proposed by the national deputies Shurma, Vojsz and Dobkin. The project proposes that appropriate parliamentary hearings be held in April 2005. But I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 110 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to introduce a new bill to Parliament that regulates changes to the State Budget. What is the reason for this? First of all, chapter 59 of the Budget Code stipulates that if expenditure changes are to be made, changes to the State Budget Act should be made. You know, there's been an extermination of certain state committees. Their functions are passed on to the ministries, which is, in fact, we need to completely change the structure of the public budget expenditure in terms of the principals. There is a reduction in the staff of these ministries and the public administrations, but the cost of reduction was not directly foreseen by the State budget. I mean, we need to make changes with respect to these indicators. Moreover, according to the data we receive, the budget committee is now receiving additional revenue from the State budget, and according to official estimates, the excess of the planned income is 14.7 percent, that is, the income changes are significant. We have also adopted several bills regulating new expenditures, including pensions for military personnel, to increase pension insurance, to increase wage levels. When we analyze the local budget costs, we can say that, in principle, about two billion dollars, we today have to go to local budgets to settle issues not just by keeping local budgets, but by paying local wages. Under these conditions, changes are needed. Unfortunately, the government is now providing us with information that is being proposed for change. And you need to listen directly to them, which indicators are projected to change. The committee does not support the holding of parliamentary hearings on this issue in April months, but instead proposes the following order of work. First, hold committee hearings on this issue during the second half of March. On 19 May, listen to the government's 2004 budget report, and on 1 June, hold parliamentary hearings on the main directions of budgetary policy for 2006. In this context, we will be able to effectively work and amend the State Budget Act 2005 and make the necessary adjustments and adjustments to government policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have received a message. Let's be clear. The drafter proposes to hold parliamentary hearings in April 2005. A committee of profiles, I think, is more right. And it is more appropriate that we hold parliamentary hearings in June. Is Storm okay for June? Then the author of the bill agrees with the view of the profile committee that such hearings take place in June. Duck, please, for the reasons of the vote. The Kachura microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to the name of these parliamentary hearings. It's about what we're going to talk about in June about predicting economic and social development in 2005. It's completely inappropriate in the June months. When we discussed it on the budget committee yesterday, we talked about how parliamentary hearings were appropriate to discuss the 2006 forecast to reconcile them with hearings of the budgetary resolution, or to make separate budgetary hearings on improving the budgetary process and to discuss in such discussions the problems that are now both centrally and specifically with regard to funding local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another clarification. It's not about the 2005 perspective, it's about the 2006 perspectives, because it's probably perfectly logical that if we do it in June, it's going to be too late to talk about the 5th year. As the author of the bill, Shurma, I address you. What do you think? Do you agree? To the 2006 forecast. Do you agree with the thought? No, it's not. Then, well, I'm putting to the vote -- you're not in writing, Vasil Ivanovich -- I'm putting to the vote the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, "Implementing the budgetary process in Ukraine in the context of analysing and predicting the economic and social development of the state in 2005" -- not in April months, but in June. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:25]] For 180. If you don't mind, let me make a suggestion that Paul Kachur made. Not the 2005 forecast, but the 2006 forecast and June forecast. No objections? I then put to the vote the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, "Implementing the budgetary process in Ukraine in the context of analysis and predicting the economic, social development of the state in 2006. To conduct such hearings in June of this year. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:17:11]] For 180. Same number, 180. No decision taken. There's a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order entitled "Contemporary state and prospects for state policy in the area of freedom of speech and information." [[Registration number of draft regulation 7107]] Reported by national deputy Shurma Igor Mihajlovich. Prepare for the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u78	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Before I come to the discussion of this issue, I would like to highlight one situation. Last year we witnessed completely different processes when the right part of the hall was interested in hearings because they were not satisfied with government activities. And it's only natural that any issue that concerns Ukraine's participation in a single economic space, any matter of the budgetary process, this right part of the room, especially the "Our Ukraine" Block, will not be supported, because they're not interested in the government coming to Parliament and reporting. Until this political power realizes that it is not in opposition today, but in power, there will always be problems in this session room. It's about that question. The media's activity, the development of information relations, are largely reflecting the state of social and political relations in the country. Free communication is an essential part of the democratic development of society, since economic development largely depends on the operationality of the world’s entry into objective information. With the change of government after the presidential election, the problem of freedom of speech becomes particularly important. It is only the free media that can guarantee that the authorities will be in control of society. The new leadership of the country is conducting staff cleansing in the management of media-related structures. Not only does he talk about replacing UT-1, but they do. But also about changing the owners of the biggest TV channels. Whether reasonable reasoning is in favor of such a decision or not, it is necessary to formulate clear and transparent principles of public policy in the area of freedom of speech. The government proposes to expand access to Ukrainian television by powerful Western media companies. This is likely to radically change the situation in the information space of Ukraine. Parliament is obliged to develop clear principles of public policy on these issues. The most important topic remains the topic of Russian language on television channels. Today, many are concerned about this issue. In particular, according to a letter from the Ukrainian Intelligence Agency for the Protection of Russian, under which almost 1.5 hundred signatures have already been signed. Including the winners of state prizes, doctors and candidates of various, different profiles, deserving artists. This is only part of the problems that need to be discussed openly. The faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine considers it necessary to hold parliamentary hearings on this subject, with a view to fully studying the problems identified and working out precise and effective mechanisms for improving domestic information legislation, creating favourable conditions for the development of the information industry of Ukraine for the enjoyment of every citizen in the free expression of views and beliefs on the rights of information. [[united]] Maybe they're here to support the President's idea of supporting Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u79	Right before the vote, if you don't mind. Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich, please the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we considered this proposal yesterday on the committee. Of course, there was no freedom of speech in Ukraine yesterday. I have great doubt that she will be there tomorrow. It doesn't-- it's my old thesis and it's probably right, at least I don't have any doubts about it. When one percent or less of the population is in the state all and 90% are poor, then freedom of speech is simply not possible. Freedom of speech is possible when there is a solid middle class in society, at least a percentage of the 60-70 population, economically independent. Then, as a subscriber, as the viewer pays for information services, he dictates the circulation of true publications itself. And then there's freedom of speech. In today’s circumstances, we can only ask in theory and adopt appropriate legislation. But that's my personal point of view. Now I'm reporting the committee's point of view. The committee took into account that on April 13 we will be holding parliamentary hearings in this room on "The Prospects for Social Broadcasting in Ukraine." And by revealing this subject, by speaking from factions, from groups, committees and so forth, there will be enough to say about the state of freedom of speech in Ukraine and to make many suggestions. So in order not to repeat ourselves in one session, we propose that, at the suggestion of colleagues on parliamentary hearings, "The state of the art and prospects of state policy in the area of freedom of speech" be moved to the next session, which I ask you to support, because in this session, I repeat, this topic will be sufficiently addressed in the topic of social broadcasting, which is also very important and applies essentially to all the problems that colleagues raise here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, with the motives of Jaroslav Kendzer and later. I already announced Jaroslav Kendzior, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u82	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I'm sure a lot of you have been very, very excited to talk about freedom of speech from the Supreme Council's rostrum, which for years has usurped the information space, has been bringing together the whole of Ukraine, which has introduced the dungeons. And today, a representative of this political party is saving for freedom of speech. This reminds me of a courtesan on whom there is no place to be, who suddenly began to be in need and to speak, to be philosophies of chastity. I think it's immoral for the representative of this party to ask questions on this subject of freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u83	I see, I see. You'll be speaking in the end. Yuri Solomatin. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u84	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. An old - known thesis: The one who has the money orders music and orders the media. So today, when the money is still on the verge of his paltry capitalist, when the new government of capitalist ministers is formed, and now he's making a good, beautiful mine at a bad game, and he's trying, in the words of public radio and television, to capture everything that once belonged to another force and now he's crying with crocodile tears about what they didn't give him before. Don't give up, now you'll give the blame to others. So I want to say one thing about this. Only after the return of all the property and authority of the people will there be freedom of speech, and everything else is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u85	Yes, Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, very interesting suggestions from the faction of SDPU(o) speak of both budget hearings and freedom of speech. This reminds us of when the thief was caught by the hand, he screams: Hold the thief. Let's hear about both the budget and its use in the Zakartat region, including the Avantgard Stadium. The government report on May 19th will be scheduled. On the subject of freedom of speech. People who have strangled her for 15 years suddenly have something to talk about. Of course, such hearings are needed. I support the idea of holding such hearings. So that they would be considered demonopolization, so that there wouldn't be two channels for Pinchuku not to have three channels to actually have freedom of speech in the radio area of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u87	Yes, Yuri Solomatin. I, my dear fellows. Yuri Carmazin, I'm sorry. The faction of our Ukraine. I give my word only to those who sign up, fellow believers. And then the author of the Design Decision Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, it is a pleasure to have people initiate those who have recently initiated the dungeons. I would now like to propose to take this decision on the basis only, adding that information should also be entered here, the mandate of the Attorney General of Ukraine to answer the question of who introduced censorship in Ukraine, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, and thus introduced the Dark Ones. A society now with a new freedom of speech should know that. That's the first one. And the second. Let the National Council know, and together with the Attorney General's Office, the Maintenance Foundation, how did the central TV channels end up in a bunch of people who teach us how to live today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u89	Yes, Igor Shurma, please, as the author of the Order Project, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u90	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to ask Mr. Righteous to let you all understand my position. You can't take this question in the fall, because we're all going to be involved in the parliamentary race, and it's going to be used purely for the pianist movement. As for the comments that come from our Ukraine. So I have to say, for good reason, the President of Ukraine didn't offer any government office to those two speakers, because he said at the inauguration here: I'm stretching my hand to cooperate with everyone. And all political forces must cooperate. Today, this opposition shows that these people are set up exclusively for war and destructive action. And finally, I'm not going to argue with you at all, because you are. two people who violate the Constitution who have been expelled from the Constitution. They were and are violators. This is Secretary of State Zinchenko and Prashenko, Secretary of the PNBO. They'll come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u91	Yes, Your Honor, let's go to the vote. It is the first draft of the decree proposed by the national deputies of Šurm and Volodymyr Hare. This is registration number 7107 on parliamentary hearings on "The state of the art and prospects of state policy in the area of freedom of speech and information. Yes, please vote. [[11:30:11]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 1, Communist faction - 7, “Ukraine” - 50, People's Agrarian Party - 11, SPI - 23, SDPU - 21, “One Ukraine” - 2, “Timoshenko Block” - 0, “Democratic Ukraine” - 15, “Will of the People” - 7, “Soyuz” - 12, “Deminiciatives” - 9, “Centre” - 1, “DP-Republic” - 5, “Postfaction - 9. What about suggestions? Do you agree, Igor Mikhailovich? Well, please, Shurma. Well, there's also a committee proposal. Unless you agree with the committee's proposal. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u92	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues! No one can claim that the problem is irrelevant and that it will not be exacerbated in the need for satisfaction. So I ask the session room to support Mr. Rightdenk's proposal to hold these hearings in the fall. I want to address all those who observe the sessions: the faction "our Ukraine" has not voted in favour of the proposal coming from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Mr. President, you are the leader of the bloc, ask your parliamentary friends not to embarrass you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, then the committee's proposal to vote is to hold parliamentary hearings: "Contemporary state and prospects for the development of public policy in the area of freedom of speech and information" -- with the date refined November-December 2005. This is registration number 7107-d. I'm betting on a vote for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:32:21]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 53, "Ukraine" - 50, People's Party - 25, SPU - 24, SDPU - 21, "The One Ukraine" - 22, "Timoshenko Block - 2, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Will of the People" - 4, "Soyuz" - 8, "Deminicatives" - 7, "Centre" - 0, NDP - "Republic" - 7, "Afterfraction" - 10. Dear colleagues, let's move on to second reading. A draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Care and Care]] Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, this is Bill No. 5272, which introduced the National Deputy of Assadchev. Briefly about its contents. It is suggested that the court, when deciding whether to set up care or care, immediately determine who he appoints as guardian or caregiver for the administration of care or care. Because if there is a gap between the moment of decision to set up care or care, then the materials are passed on to the body of care, care, care, caregivers, the rights of minors, minors, the limited number of effective, incapacitated persons may suffer. We've made the right adjustments. They're all accounted for. No suggestions included. They're just four, because the offer is small. There is a proposal for the Committee of Legal Policy to accept in the second reading and final.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, all proposals are taken into account by the committee. No warnings about the draft law? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code, registration number 5572, is put to the vote. [[on Care and Care]] Please vote [[11:35:10]] For 263 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property is being announced for consideration, registration number 5541. [[on social infrastructure objects]] Vladimir Josephovich Matthew will report to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u96	Honourable Presidential and Honourable Fellows! The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment presents to you the draft Ukrainian Law amending the law on the transfer of public and municipal property, registration number 5541, prepared in the Committee for second reading. I would like to recall that this project, initiated by our colleague, the People's Deputy Kachure, is aimed at a legal solution to the problem of dormitory and other facilities with social infrastructure, which were thus lost during the privatization or corporateization of state-owned enterprises and organizations, i.e. did not enter the Charter funds of newly established economic societies. During the work on the draft, our Committee received 7 comments and proposals from 5 legislative actors. Initiatives and 2 of them have been rejected and the rest have been taken into account editorially and in a sense. It should be said that the text of the draft law adopted on first reading had only undergone drafting changes, with little change in meaning. Thus, articles 4 and 4-1 of the Basic Law set out a list of relevant bodies and organizations, as well as arrangements for the transfer of public and utility property. Consequently, the draft law adopted on first reading excluded the rule requiring agreement on the transfer of social infrastructure facilities by relevant rural, rural, urban and urban councils, since other articles of the law established the need for such harmonizations. Instead, the draft law provided for a rule that there was no need to reconcile the transfer of social infrastructure facilities with enterprises and labour groups of enterprises to which such facilities belonged prior to their privatization but fell into the process of privatization. This is primarily due to the fact that these facilities have not entered the Charter Fund of newly created business societies, and these enterprises no longer have anything to do with such facilities. And the last. It would be editorially appropriate to specify in the last column what does not require special harmonization of the concept of “with these enterprises and their labour groups”. I would like to vote in favour of the draft of the bill on second reading and in general as the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! No charges. Matrivian, please. One amendment rejected. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u98	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Yosifovich! Third amendment. We know very well how many pre-school facilities have been transferred to communal property have been closed and are being used incomprehensiblely today. The essence of the amendment is one thing. What do we suggest? If the children's combination has not entered the charter fund, and the shareholders are willing to continue to use it as a children's combination, until it operates exactly like a kindergarten, they will transfer it to the stockholder's company, let it bear the burden, and let the kindergarten work on health. I do not understand why it was rejected and why the Committee considers that this is not the norm of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u99	It's really not the norm of this law, it's the law of the Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u100	What, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u101	That's true, Serezha, not the norm of this law. What can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u102	So you're filming your amendment, right? Okay. Dear colleagues, a second reading proposal is put to the vote by the Committee on Admission and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights in respect of Social Infrastructure Objects, registration number 5541. Please vote. [[11:39:44]] For the 250. The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the whereabouts of a legal person, registration number 5129, is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the head of the Dubitsky Viacheslav Volodymyrovich subcommittee
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u103	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, prepared for the second reading of the bill, registration number 5129, amending the Civil Code of Ukraine, on the whereabouts of a legal person, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Polischuk Kiril Ananiyovich. The bill received five suggestions, all taken into account. Honorable national MPs, members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, made special reference in the drafting of the bill to the proposals that there was a lack of merit in the statutory documents of the legal person’s whereabouts. The committee also agreed with the proposal to exclude from articles 88 and 93 of the Ukrainian Civil Code the obligation to indicate in the statute of association that the rule is unwarrantedly burdensome for societies, especially large ones, as a result of which the number of complaints made by entrepreneurs about such order and the desire to replace it. Furthermore, the Committee does not deny that the association should be able to change its address without entering into the statute but simply to report its change to the registration authority. And then articles 88 and 93 of the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs require further changes. Considering that all proposals for the second reading of the bill are taken into account, the members of the committee propose to support the bill and to adopt it in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any warnings about the committee's proposal? It is put to the vote for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill amending the Civil Code on the whereabouts of a legal person. Registration number 5129. Please vote. [[11:42:47]] For 284 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the housing rights of residents living in hostels is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee’s Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing, and Communications, Resnik Igor Josephovich. Registration number of document 5282-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 21, 2004, the Supreme Council in this Chamber adopted bill 5282 on amending certain Ukrainian laws on housing rights for residents living in hostels. This bill, submitted by the government, provides for the elimination of disparities in the transfer of shelters to municipal property, contained in Ukrainian laws on the privatization of the State Housing Fund, on the privatization of state property and on the law of Ukraine on the transfer of objects of state and municipal property law. It is also proposed to protect the rights of the occupants by amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. The adoption of Ukrainian law will facilitate the transfer of hostels during the privatization of the utility company, as the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property will not extend to the State Housing Fund, including hostels. The latter will not be included in the statutory fund of privatized enterprises. In the event of bankruptcy, the liquidation will not include a housing fund, including dormitories, which will prevent the transfer of hostels to the property of other legal persons for the debts of the enterprise and ensure the protection of the housing rights of the occupants of these hostels. After the adoption of the bill in the first reading and in the process of preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading of proposals and comments to it, there were no comments. Probably due to the fact that the bill is small, one page at a time, and it fully reflects the essence of the issue in the event of business bankruptcy, changes in the form of ownership or their liquidation of the hostel should be passed on to municipal property. In connection with the above - mentioned second reading, almost such a draft of the bill was considered and adopted at the first reading in this room on December 21, 2004. At the committee meeting, the bill was considered on February 2nd this year and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights of citizens living in hostels, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of the housing rights of residents living in hostels is put to the vote. Registration number 5282-2. Please vote. [[11:46:06]] For-300 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 42, Communist faction - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 49, National Agrarian Party - 28, SDPU - 22, "One Ukraine" - 15, SPU - 22, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, "Will of the People" - 6, "Soyuz" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, NDP - "Republic" - 7, "Centre" - 1, "Centre" - 1. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on farms]] [[Registration number 4410]] Reporter: Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Tomic Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation is proposed. [[on farm activities]] [[Registration number 4410]] The project was designed to bring Ukraine’s legislative acts into line with the Farms Act, which was adopted on June 19, 2003. This makes it possible to regulate, in accordance with the adopted law, 16 laws relating to the activity of farmers. In the first reading of the bill, the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority gives a positive assessment of the bill. The bill was also supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, on Construction and Transport, on Social Policy and on Legislative Security. On June 22, 2004, at the Supreme Council, 310 votes in the first reading were supported by the bill. During this period, there has been an amendment to the committee by the National Weaver MP, which is included in the table, and you have the opportunity to get to know, it is counted. People's deputies, members of the committee, at their meeting unanimously supported the draft bill and asked your honourable colleagues to support the introduction of a re-examination to the Supreme Council of the budget, it is clear that 43 bills relating to the sector and the bill, which may be the 44th, thanks to your support and the Head of the Supreme Council, will be relevant in the budget in order to radically change the budgetary support of both the state and agricultural economies and the agricultural complex of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on farming. Registration number 4410. Please vote. [[11:49:36]] For 289 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the protection of conservation areas]] Registration number 4590. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Hennady Borisovich Rudenko. Please, Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is brought to your attention by a bill already prepared for second reading. This is about improving the security of the reserves. The bill was initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it was developed by the members of the Supreme Council. There is no question about the current. It is related to the need to improve the organization, the functioning of the natural-commanding fund of national importance and the implementation of conservation measures for the conservation of particularly valuable natural complexes. Quite often, the issue of conservation is critical, even politically, in the Supreme Council Hall, so any insinuation on this subject needs to be removed. It's also about improving the management and coordination of the activities of the Departments of State Security of the natural-intelligence fund. And there are problems in this issue, especially considering that the government is starting to reform the sector again. Of course, it is also about bringing Ukraine's Nature and Command Fund Act into line with the Earth Code and implementing civil strategy provisions for biosphere reserves. A comparative table with comments and suggestions partially disregarded is prepared. For example, the committee suggests that a number of amendments be taken into account by the national deputy Carmazin, such as participation in voluntary fundraising, enterprises, institutions, organizations and citizens for the financial provision of land and natural resources. Some other adjustments are included, and 3 suggestions are partially included. At the same time, the committee proposes to reject one of Mr. Carmazin's amendments to remove a sentence from article 17, which states that the task of biosphere reserves is to ensure the continued socio-economic development of the territory. This formulation is actually contained in the Seville Strategy for Biosphere Reserves, so we think that this is an element that needs to be introduced, taking into account our European integration. It is also important that part 1 of article 61, "The Composition and Authorisation of the Public Protection Service of the Natural and Command Fund", clarifying the composition of the designated service. It is related to the need to create a vertical service for the public service, headed by the head of the State Security Service. It is also recommended to reject the amendment concerning the mechanism of approval of the PFS institution. The bill on the establishment of a natural-intelligence fund and the position on the organization of the territory are divided. The committee is proposing to adopt a bill. The Legal Authority of the Supreme Council supports the bill without notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u110	Thank you, Hennady Borisovich. Yes, here are the amendments, apart from the amendments by Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, all taken into account. Are you insisting? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, virtually all my amendments have been rejected. I define what "biospheric reserves" are and because they are conservational, scientific and research institutions of international importance that are created precisely for the purpose of conservation in the natural state of the largest natural complexes of the biosphere and of environmental monitoring, and of the study of the environment, and since there is now a violation of those that are still in Yalta today, you know what in the reserve, in the other reserves that are being used, I will insist on the sounding of all my amendments, Adam Ivanovich. So I'm asking you to give me an opportunity to argue, and then let people see who's right, who's wrong. Life will show.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u112	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're right, but you have to give up one amendment because the minute has already been used. Yes, please correct, I'm making a comment to the Committee, probably someone a little bit, Hennady Borisovich, look, well, the techs didn't count these amendments, and it's going to be very hard for us to figure out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u113	Let's try it out with a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u114	Well, we'll vote, of course, but make a note to the heads of the secretariat. Yes, please, first page. Yuri Anatolyevich, please, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u115	Yuri Karmazin, thank you, Adam Ivanovich, that's exactly what I have to say. You saw for yourself what the secretariat did. In article 5, part one, paragraph two, I propose to make an editorial: a specially authorized central executive body in the field of environmental protection in relation to areas and objects of natural importance. It is clear that it refers to the 5th article where paragraphs 2 and 3 are presented, and I suggest that they be put in writing. At which point the Committee does not write the conclusions that are to be drawn and the Committee’s reasoning is simple: it is rejected and everything. What are the conclusions? Why Rejected? Why is the proposed editorial better than my editorial? No one said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u116	Gennady Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u117	Rejected because not all institutions are subordinated to the Mind, the institution, as a legal person, should be approved by the executive authorities in which they are subordinated. So it's not a fact that today, given that balance is part of the natural-intelligence funds that are not just central executives. So we don't think that it needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u118	I am voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Carmazin for his amendments to Article 5. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:51]] For-94 No suggestions supported. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich, to the 14th article. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u119	There's a changed edition, Adam Ivanovich. The first reading adopted an amendment, which is now included, should then be voted on, Adam Ivanovich, according to the regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u120	It's the Hare's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u121	Adam Ivanovich, it doesn't matter now whose amendment. It's a rule. Adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council, another is now proposed. Please let them be equal to the positions of deputies and the rights of deputies, you know that. Please put down an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u122	Please, this is the first page of the amendment of the people’s representative of the Hare, which is included. In the previous edition, that is, in the first reading, we accepted it in a different edition. So here, according to the regulations, both the Hare and any other national MP have the right to insist on confirming its amendment. Yes, Gennady Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u123	Yeah, I'll tell you about it. That in the process, in fact, there are sometimes legal coalitions, there is an opportunity to improve the editorial part, to improve even the essence of the proposed article. And we believe that the formulation is that "the central authority of the executive authority, institutions and organizations in which the territories and objects of the PPP are situated, in agreement with the central executive authority in the field of conservation of areas and objects of natural and natural-indicative state importance fund." In this paper we want to, and we've taken this into account on the committee to make it a final edition. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u124	I vote in favour of the amendment of the people's representative of the Hare. Please vote. [[11:59:04]] For 116 So there's an editorial that you and I adopted on the first reading. Microphone, please, Carmazine. To the 14th article, the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. To the 14th article. I ask and propose that the second part of article 14 be drafted as follows: the regime of the territories and objects of the natural-indicative fund is determined in accordance with this law, taking into account its classification and purpose. This is what I propose to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u126	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u127	She did. it is written, Adam Ivanovich, which is the motive for rejecting this amendment. Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Unlike the position of the establishment of the regime of the territories and objects of the natural-commanding fund, it is confirmed by nature's order. We understand that these are different things: the position of the institution and the position of the territorial regime. So the final edition that we've adopted is a provision on the regime of territories and objects of the natural-intelligence fund that is designed to take account of their classification and purpose and is approved by the central executive authority in the field of conservation in relation to the territory and objects of the natural-intelligence fund of state importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u129	I'm betting on the vote to amend the People's Deputy Carmazin's 14th article. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u130	Overruled, overruled. [[12:00:57]] For-68
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u131	Not supported. Please, Carmazine's microphone, fix the 17th article.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the proposal here in two parts I have to go to article 17. First. I propose removing the first part of the sentence "and ensuring the continued socio-economic development of the territories." And put the first part in the new edition. Biosphere reserves are environmental research institutions of international importance, which are designed to preserve in the natural state the largest natural complexes of the biosphere, to carry out environmental monitoring, to study the environment, to change it under anthropogenic factors. And I would like to point out that I'm asking you to remove the first part because we can't launch biosphere reserves under socio-economic development. Do you understand? Otherwise, there's nothing left. Let's be smart people anyway. The Lord has given us this territory, we will preserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u133	Thank you. I would like to point out that when we, in meeting the requirements of Seville Strategy for Biospheric Reserves, have proposed to present the text of article 17 - "Statute and the task of biosphere reserves as part of complementing and securing the continued socio-economic development of territories, we do not think that this can lead to a deterioration of the situation, rather than improvement. An example of this is the different areas where. Different objects, where, in fact, real economic projects can also improve the situation. Therefore, we suggest leaving the committee and rejecting Mr. Carmazin’s offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u134	Shall we vote? Don't you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Do you insist on voting? Well, let's vote until Yuri Anatolyovich is informed. I put Karmazin's proposal to the 17th article. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:35]] For-81 Not supported. Suggestion to the 18th article. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you see, and in this article there is no conclusion and no basis for the committee. And now it's filled with this article, part of the new content: "The economic activity within the land of the biosphere reserve shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements set out in the project of the organization of the biosphere reserve area, the reserve and the protection of its natural complexes. This economic activity has already destroyed a host of reserves and will destroy more. And you and I know that the oligarchs built right in the middle of the reserves. This article will do just that. We have to say in the law that there can be no business activity there. For another purpose these commandments have been built by the Lord; they are not with us, you see, created. We don't create anything. Our job is to save. So I'm in favour of protecting nature and removing this point, this is an addition to article 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u136	Thank you. On the basis of this question, we think that the Natural Command Fund is not Mars, where they're going on an expedition, it's the reality of our lives. We have 44 objects today. In fact, it is a matter of not always having enough resources to finance this activity, as it is necessary. Therefore, if there is a reasonable activity, why not, there is a project that agrees with both the territorial community and the central authority of the executive branch. So it doesn't interfere with each other. When people break laws and build their own property in reserves, it is a criminal violation, and even without adopting any additional laws. So you don't have to make butter for butter. We need to simply obey existing laws today. Let's not get confused. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u137	I'll bet you a vote on the 18th article of the National MP Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:06:08]] For-81 Not supported. Please, Karmazin's microphone, correct to the 19th article. Page five.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. This is actually an article supplemented by a part two, where it is written: promoting the ever-increasing ecological and socio-economic development of the biosphere reserve areas is being done in cooperation with local self-government authorities. What socio-economic development can be achieved by a biosphere reserve that is a conservation, scientific and scientific state of international importance? What's that? Maybe you'll tell me what's going on in practice? Ecologists are alarmed that we are already in Ukraine destroying all of this! The scientific community is saying, I'm speaking it with my mouth today. So let's stop this one, and you see that this destruction is just going to happen. I'm asking you to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, I wouldn't take that kind of courage from the public. I repeat, almost 50 such objects, almost 50 such objects, are local self - government bodies, including representatives of the public, who care no less about preserving diversity. So either let's turn at all like Chernobyl a 30-mile zone, and just legalize poaching, or make a normal transparent scheme where the thief will be punished, but people who go with a good-to-natural-order fund will have the right to work legally. And the costs that they can raise, including from tourism projects, from eco-regions they're going to give to the development of data on specific natural-inventory objects. So we suggest you delete your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u140	I am voting on the proposal of the national deputy Carmazin to complete the 19th article. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:41]] For-82 Not supported. Please use Karmazin’s 21 - article microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin. By the time of the 21st article, I would like to make a third of the third part of this new edition: "The territory of the National Natural Park, recreational and other activities in its territory are carried out in accordance with the Regulations on the National Natural Park and the National Natural Park, Conservation, Construction and Recreational Use of its Natural Complexes and Objects, approved by the Central Executive Authority in the field of environmental protection." That's what it means. That's the end of the quote. This means that all these activities will be confirmed at the level of the central executive body. And that means there's going to be a project, and it's all going to be aligned with those organizations that care about leaving this acquisition of the people. So I don't know why I turned down this proposal. Because it fits what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u142	Yuri Anatolyevich, frankly, the amendment was a discussion. And frankly, there were doubts, whether they were against it or not. Thoughts were divided. We've suggested that before the "National Natural Park position" we change it to the following: "The position on the territory of the National Natural Park," where we think we can actually take all of these ideas into account. Well, they're actually coming out of the fact that if we write down the "position of the territory of the National Natural Park." This is the next revision. In theory, you can write it that way. But the committee, I repeat, in this case, I say again, I'm speaking as a representative of the committee. The committee had different points of view, made a decision on rejection. We think that the text that we're proposing is not really different. It's just that yours is more extensive, but please agree, Yuri Anatolyevich, that the regime situation allows all of these ideas to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u143	Please don't discuss it, please don't discuss it. I put to the vote the proposal of National MP Carmazin in article 21. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:11:35]] For-90 The offer is not supported. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone. Amendment to Article 52, this is page 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry for the obvious things. It is obvious, but today the head of the committee is linked. The committee's decision. In article 55, I propose part 2 that we put in "protection of areas and objects of the natural-commanding fund, other categories rely on enterprises, institutions and organizations in which they are known. In the event of the need to protect these areas and sites of the natural conservation fund, State protection services located near natural reserves, biosphere reserves, national natural parks and regional landscape parks can be relied on with regard to the costs of enterprises, institutions and organizations in which these areas and sites are known. The owners of these territories and objects must either protect themselves or compensate the State for the cost of protection, and in the event of inability to do so, in general return these territories and objects to the State," this is logically absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u145	On the basis of this correction. Well, I can do the next one. There's an object, no one's ordering security, no state security comes in, no security, and then a month or two later, they put an account on a particular owner of a particular territory. The owner doesn't have the money, then he goes to the government or to the MPs: pay because I have to pay for protection. In fact, all of us today have opportunities to demand, depending on who it is subordinated to, the cost of all necessary work, including protection. So, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we don't see the mechanism, so we're already going to put in law an order that we don't have a mechanism, and we think it's premature. Let us develop a mechanism, make sure that each object is protected. It's in our capabilities. And it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u146	I bet the vote on the proposal of the national MP Carmazin to 55 articles of the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:14:10]] For-75 Not supported. Please, Carmazin’s microphone, note in article 61.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to miss this amendment. I'm going to take this amendment off because there's another amendment that's more important.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u148	Please, then, to the End of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u149	No, there is another correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u150	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u151	On page 9. In article 61, part three and fourth, I propose that the following should be made: "The officers of the State Protection Service of the Territory and of the natural-intelligence fund shall be entitled to wear the form of the established pattern, the table of arms and other special means in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Ukraine's legislation provides legal and social protection for the public protection of the territories and sites of the natural-indictment fund that protect the territories and objects of the natural-indictment fund." I do not understand why these reserves were rejected, to whom it would be advantageous not to be protected today. Some may find it convenient to reject such suggestions. I just can't understand why we're doing this. So I suggest and insist, if we don't accept this amendment, then you realize that it just doesn't make sense to change these laws at all. It's better not to take anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u152	Thank you for this article we have proposed in parts two, three and four the word "employees" in all differences to replace the words "employees" in accordance with the existing legislation. And on the basis of your proposal, including special measures, we believe that this is already provided for by valid legislation. We have that kind of information, we have that kind of information. So we suggest we reject your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u153	I am voting on the amendment to article 61 of the People's Deputy Carmazin, please identify yourself. [[12:16:42]] For-61 Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone. Yuri Anatolyevich, about the end of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u154	Thank you. Carmazine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Law was written that takes effect from the day it was published. At the same time, according to the budget code, there are problems under this Act and it should have been written that this Act takes effect on 1 January 2006 is a classic norm. This was to be done. And secondly, I propose the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the month following the publication of this Act, to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposals on bringing Ukraine's laws into line with this Act, I also propose to change the numbering of further parts and to make the Law a better look and also to bring the Cabinet of Ministers into line with the law, to ensure the adoption of the laws and the review of the annulment by the ministries and other bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u155	Thank you, well, on the basis of the end-of-life situation, on the assumption that we can accept it peacefully from the day we publish it, because it doesn't need additional financial costs. Secondly, we think that the Cabinet of Ministers should work and this should be its function: to bring all proposals into line with the law into the month. And I think on the basis of the numbering of another, this automatically question will be solved, depending on how many amendments will be taken into account, how many are not counted. So I think we need to agree with our editors, we need to reject the entry into force since 2006 and we need to agree on the date of our publication. And other amendments by Yuri Anatoliovich are partially taken into account. That is, the Cabinet of Ministers, to rule out the Supreme Council's committee of profile as responsible, which is to make the Cabinet of Ministers mandatory and to demand that we have our results in a month's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u156	Gennady Borisovich, I want to make it clear, this bill foresees an assimilation with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u157	There's no need for extra funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u158	You don't have to. Thus, in view of this final explanation, I put to the vote Yuri Karmazin’s proposal for the final position. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:19:48]] For-67 The offer is not supported. We've been through all the repairs with you. So I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee, which is supported by the Chief Legal Authority, on the adoption of a second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund. [[on improving the protection of conservation areas]] [[Bill number 4590]] Please vote. Take down the vote, please. Carmazin's microphone for voting reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked Yuri Carmazin to take the lead in seeing that this bill proposes to change the management of the natural-command fund. It is established that there will be economic activity, it is determined that part of the authority will be transferred from the central executive body in the field of environmental protection, including to others, including local executive authorities. The Law on the Natural Command Fund itself may be lost in the same way. After the amendments had been rejected, which were aimed at preserving its protection, I do not believe that such a law should be voted on. He's not going to bring anything good to society, and he's going to make it worse, and he's going to make it worse, and he's going to make it worse, and he's going to make changes to the natural reserve fund of Ukraine, which he's been working so far, and he's doing more or less normal, and all he has to do is ensure compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Natural and Command Fund, registration number 4590. [[on the improvement of the protection of territories]] Please vote. [[12:22:15]] For-157. Not supported. To read again? Yes, please, Rudenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in the following, Yuri Anatoliyevich does not cast a shadow on the plot, nor does he say that this law legalizes the economic activity of the Natural Command Fund. It's still going to be there, but it's going to be more controlled that way. The other one. In no way does it disqualify the authorities. It just legalizes that there is a national strategy, a republican strategy, there is a local strategy. She's just setting it up. I am sorry that some deputies are misleading the hall, and the hall makes decisions that are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u162	I am voting for the bill to be re-readed. Please vote. [[12:23:32]] For 207 Not supported. That's how the bill of review is done. Dear colleagues, recesses are requested. Let's call it a 12-hour break for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will continue our work. Dear National Deputies! Our work involves the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Mr. Vasil Timfiyovich, as well as the judges present, on whom we should consider the issue of the election of judges on an indefinite basis. Dear colleagues, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice is appointed to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of Ukraine, "By the Superior Council of Justice", members of the High Council of Justice shall swear before taking office at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the High Council of Justice applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the application of the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice by Zvarič Roman Mikhajlović. In order to make an oath to the High Council of Justice, Justice Minister Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich is invited to the rostrum. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u164	I, Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Roman Mikhailovich. All kinds of success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! A draft ruling, draft decrees for the election of judges for the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and other courts is announced for consideration. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich is invited to the report by the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u166	Your Honourable Head, distinguished national deputies, honorable judges, and candidates for judges! The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court and the head of the Supreme Economic Court for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, appeals and local courts, as well as the agricultural courts of Ukraine. In this regard, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy has reviewed the application and is submitting the following draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for your consideration. Draft Decree No. 7062: The election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. According to article 85, paragraph 27, part of the first article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: to elect judges of the Supreme Court on an indefinite basis: Klimenko Marina Robertovna, Lavrinyuk Mikola Yuhimovich and Litvinenko Volodymira Ivanovich. These judges meet all the requirements laid down by valid legislation, including the Law on the Order of Election and Appointment of Judges. It's enough to note that all the named judges work in appeals courts in Ukraine and have more than 20 years of work. They're very positive. And the committee made a unanimous decision on recommending those judges to be elected by the judges of the Supreme Court on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, are there any warnings about the committee's proposals? None. The draft Decree, registration number 7062, on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, is then put to the vote. 7062 please vote. [[13:01:23]] For 272 Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u168	Decision No. 7063 has been announced for consideration. But by declaring it, I will give a brief answer to Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski’s question: to which chamber were the judges of the Supreme Court elected. In the Chamber of Criminal Procedures in connection with the expulsion of judges, the result is that they have reached an age - old price. Rule number 7063. This is about the election of the judges of the following judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kuznietsov Olen Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Chuprina Vladimir Alexiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Daniluk Valentina Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Grigorchenk Eduardo Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Zhadanov Valentina Sergiyevna, Lukyan Svetlana Vasilovna, Osipchuk Olena Vitaliyevna, Prokopchuk Love Mikhailnovna and Solomach Ludmila Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Pavicka Tetjana Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gózdik Pavel Aleksandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Danilova Alexija Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd, Nikita Aleksija Semenović; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Kirsano Lydia Ivanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian District of Larissa Antonovna; the Court of Appeal of the Czernovets region of Seminouk Kostin Mikolayovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Shevchenka Valentina Pavlovich; the local Zamostian District Court of Vinnice Starinczuk Olga Vasilovna; the local Central City District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Barsukov Olga Ivanovna; the local Berdichov Regional Court of the Žitomir Region of Alexienka Mikolayayovich; the local Bilocerkow District Court of Kiev, Dmitrenko Antonin Mihaylovna; the local Ustinów District Court of Kirovograd district of Zaik Mikola Ivanovich; the local Yellow District Court of the Luhansk district of St. Sergio Alexandrovich; the local Sverdlov City Court of Lugansk, Litvinov Vasil Grigorovitch; the local Lenin district court of Mikolyeva Dimitrova Vasil Ivanovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Chebukin Marina Yuriovna And the Uzhgorod garrison military court of Borkanuk Mikhail Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! You don't have any warnings. Vladimir Demyohin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u170	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Dear colleagues! I have an objection to Judge Herson of Chebukina County. The case was that, as a result of the review of the Council of Judges of the Herson District, it had been found that gross violations of criminal procedure law had been allowed during the course of work. For example, in 2002, an acquittal was issued to the accused, a bribe that is now being sought for a serious crime. I ask that you send for further investigation and withdraw today from the vote Chebukina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u171	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u172	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Hersonian, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I confirm what my colleague, a representative of the Hersonian demijochini, has said about the need for further study of these materials. which have recently come to the National Deputies since the meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy. I believe that in order not to make a mistake, the Supreme Council has to study perfectly all the observations that come from the electorate and those comments that are set not only at the level of the area but also at the level of the highest judicial authorities of the state regarding the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Let's do this, Mikolo Vasilovich, if you don't mind. We now call it Chebukin's Marina Juryivna, we put it on the list, we vote for everyone else, and then we look at it separately. No other warnings? Who's that? Astrov Shumilov, please turn on the microphone. [[13:07:07]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I request that the appointment of Judge Litvinov Vassili Grigorievich in the town of Sverdlovska be postponed. This was based on a complaint made by the electorate of the city, who said that for five years there was a train in the case of the beating of the voter's son, who at 11 years of age became a disabled person, completely out of sight. And the fiber goes because there's a kinship with this man who killed the victim. Please defer consideration of an additional review to the Committee on Legal Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u174	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u175	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't say a word about the letter I was just talking about, because it wasn't called, including, and the name of a man, it may indeed be, but the two vocations were a deputy in this constituency. It would be strange if a court were to deal with a case involving two parties and one party was not always satisfied if there were no complaints. I think you should leave a person on the list and vote with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's go according to established practice, then we'll go back to looking at these names, and we'll remove the last name of Litwinov Vasil Grigorovovich and Chibukina Marina Juryevna, and we'll vote for the others. With that in mind, I'm putting it to a vote. What's the offer? What's the offer? I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, registration number 7073, with the exception of the names of Lithuania and Chebukin. Please vote. [[13:09:40]] For 319 Decision taken. Please come to the microphone, Litwinov Vasil Grigorovich. Please, Astrove-Sumilov again. [[13:09:54]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. I told you everything I could. And that the complaints have been over the last two years since that, from my constituent, who has been making complaints at all times. Judge Litwinov closed the case, and only the Court of Appeal intervened and returned this additional case to the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u177	Vassil Grigorovitch, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, our Honourable Deputy Astrove-Sumilov. I am fully responsible for saying that I have nothing to do with this. This work has been under consideration for about four years because the children were playing in the square, and the eyes of each other were hurt. I'm not family, I'm not cousin, I don't have anything to do with it. I did everything I could to help this father. But there's nothing to blame for me here. There's a lot of complaints, but I don't have anything to do with it, and I've explained it to Astrov-Shumilov not once.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u179	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u180	Honorary colleagues, the committee, examined Litwinov’s candidacy, Vasil Grigorovitch, and studied in detail all the materials pertaining to his judicial activities. There was a rather lively discussion. But we have come to the conclusion that there is no reason for this judge’s unrecommendation as a judge on an indefinite basis. At the same time, the National Deputy Astrov-Shumilov has now made a number of observations concerning the judges, which relate to a particular case. You heard the answer. Therefore, given that the judge did not take a direct part in the case, and the facts that would suggest that he was involved directly or indirectly in the case were not mentioned. I think we should support the committee's recommendation on his election.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u181	Rudzkowski, please, for this reason if.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u182	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can see that the judge was speaking, and I understand that the legal category when the judge says that I was helping what I could. I'm still asking that we don't, as it were, make an unbalanced decision, consider the matter again on the committee. A national deputy of Astrov-Shumilov will come, and without, as it were, a scandal to fail, we will now fail, and then there will be other reasons, and so on. I would also ask the head of the Supreme Court not to insist on voting on his candidacy, because you can see that the observations of the People's Deputy Astrowa-Sumilova were correct if you look at them. And the judge's position here, as it were, was unconvincing. Move and vote next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u183	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich, please. Then finally, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u184	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, and the judge who answered the question asked by Astrov-Shumilov and the representative of the committee of profile, pointed out that the person in this case did not personally consider the case. He is the head of the city court. I understand that he must be responsible for all the judges who work under his authority. But he was not directly involved in this trial. How can we incriminate another person’s guilt? Well, I don't think that's gonna be quite right, especially since we're arraigning him as a judge, not as the head of a city court. Thank you. I believe that we should vote in favour of this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u185	Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I'm supporting my colleague, Mr. Rudzkowski, which means a report from the committee. As you wish it wasn't for this man's lunch, this judge, but if we're going to go with the committee to pick up the judges, and today their answer has shown us as an expert that we can't fit in and vote for this candidate. Not this afternoon. We will be disgraced throughout Ukraine, and this is how the people of Ukraine will appreciate us and the Supreme Council if we approach them as we do. Today, they have personally confirmed their answer that they are asking to return to their consideration of their candidacy. I therefore support the previous speaker, Rudzkowski, that today this candidature should be removed from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u187	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the committee is moving out of position so as not to harm the judge in this case. And I would take the proposal to look at these materials further on the committee with the invitation of the National Deputies and then make a clear decision. Therefore, the Law on the Order of Election and the Liberation of Judges of the Supreme Council allows us to do so. And I would then recommend that, taking into account the discussion in the room that has taken place, that we move this matter to the next plenary session, and by this time the committee will return to the case so that there will be no such difficulty in making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, since this is the position of the committee, we are forced to accept the committee's proposal. But I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u190	It's early.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u191	No, no. There's something else I'd like to ask. I think if each of you first entered the session room 20 years ago, Experienced people, I'd see what you'd do. What I'd like to say to Mikola Rudzikowski is that he came here without knowing what it was all about, and he immediately put a label on the person. It's simple. I think so. I know what you're going to say. I'd like, your honor, to be professional in this matter. So we're shooting. There is a proposal for the committee to postpone consideration. So we're going to take a look at it. Marina Yuriovna's Chibikikina, please. The warning was given by Demyohin Volodymyr. Please resubstantiate your warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u192	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, besides the episode that I brought with the accused, which, in fact, is the decision of the judge today to search, is statistics and there is a decision taken at the general meetings of the judges of the Herson District, the Bureau of the Court of Appeal, when the question of disciplinary responsibility was repeatedly raised. And the statistics are like that. That, again, is not my idea of statistics. If the percentage of cancelled sentences is 1.8 per cent, the personal judge of Chibikina 4.5 per cent is 2.5 times higher. I mean, it does speak of the professional qualities of the judge. Well, the main thing is, of course, the accused of Zhetko, who today is looking for a judge, although he must be punished for what he has done today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u193	Yes, please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u194	Deputies! My judicial internship is held for 10 years in the Dniprovski Rajsud, and for 5 years she served as a substitute for the head of the court. She was never drawn to disciplinary responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, there's no disciplinary action in this matter, you don't call it family, I haven't dealt with bribery cases, esteemed Deputy Demjochin. Over the course of two years, all the cases I have considered have been thoroughly examined three times by the Higher Qualifications Commission and twice by the Legal Policy Committee. I've got all my indicators checked out. I don't have enough to have 500 cases out of two, I don't think it's bad statistics. All the evidence on the performance indicators has also been tested at the Supreme Court and the Legal Policy Committee. What can I say?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u195	I think you've already said everything. That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u196	Obstacles to what Damien Vladimir Anatoliyovich is doing, in any case, I can't say anything on this matter, I can't tell by the indicators, because I've already been tested. Two years, two years, and it's my job to check out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u197	Please, Demyohin. Please. Will there be any refinements?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u198	I just want to make one point. The letter of the Council of Judges stated that the audit had clarified: the case of the accused. was considered by Judge Chebukina. That's why you probably don't remember: that was in 2002. But the victim’s mother and parents remember very well, and today they complain in every instance because the person who has to suffer the punishment is on the run today. I'm asking you to take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u199	I didn't have that kind of thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u200	Give me a chance to say. Mikola Vasilovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u201	Honourable colleagues, given the circumstances that prior to the opening of the meeting by the national deputy of Orzhachovsky, have also received material related to the work of the judge, the committee, again on the basis of the principle that the Supreme Council should take a balanced and final decision and not harm the judge, the committee suggests that the hearing be postponed until the next meeting. We're going to take a closer look, check out the new materials that have come forward, and get into the final voting regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u202	I think let's agree with the committee's proposal. I would ask you not to view this as a tragedy, just so that we have a successful vote. Do we have a deal? So we're putting aside the question of Chebukin and Marina Juryivna. No more warnings? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, your opinion is suggested by the following draft decree, including number 7064, regarding the appointment of judges on an uninterrupted basis. This is part of the system of farm courts, such as: Kiev’s Court of Appeal Andrianek Volodymyr Vasilovich, Muravyov Aleksija Valentinović; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal Laquis Valentine Volodymyrna; and the local court of the Kirovograd district of Janiszew, Vasil Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, what are the comments, warnings? Nightshade Mikola Petrovich. Then Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u205	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Judging from the judge’s demands, they should be present not only with professional training and high moral qualities but, in my opinion, with what physical training would enable them to work under difficult circumstances. For these reasons, we have a warning to the candidate for the office of the local court of the Kirovograd district of Yarosevsky Vasil Pavlovich. From ethical conditions, I'm not going to report on the diagnosis and disability information, it's all present, so I'm asking you to postpone consideration for the next time that the committee takes these circumstances into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u206	To correct health, do you understand? Please, then, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u207	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellows! I have a general comment, I have nothing against those lists. But I want to remind you and myself, and above all the people, my dear ones, after this action that the judges are going through, nothing can stop them, and they approach the word "judgment." We know what it means to judge in our society. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think that these statements are completely groundless, because in this situation we are thinking of one single judge, and tomorrow hundreds of our people will pass through the hands of this judge. [[See that we don't harm the judge.]] So, let's be demanding, I say once again, I don't mind these candidates, but let's not calm ourselves down, "Oh, she hasn't been able to say." This is the judge, she should speak up and express her opinion very clearly. Thank you. And let's be demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! I fully support Vladimir Aleksandrovitch's position, but let's let the others be incomparable, let's destroy one judge and let everyone else go, and then everything will be fine with us, let's scare them away. Please let the committee fix the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u209	This is the first time. And second of all. A complement to what Vladimir Mikhailovich said. Dear colleagues! I ask you to take into account that the judges appear in the Parliamentary Hall not from the street or by accident. This is the filing of the appropriate court. They're going through a very complicated, frankly, process of consideration and on the qualifications of commissions at the Legal Policy Committee. No complaint remains pending. So keep in mind that they are worried, very worried. We know how this even happens on a committee. So we'd like to take these circumstances into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Let's, if there's another last name, and then we'll talk about the candidates directly. Do you have any warnings by name? So we get out of the draft decision of Janishev Vassil Pavlovich, and we vote for others. Is there no objection? The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, with the exception of the name Janiszewski Vasil Pavlovich, is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7064]] Please vote. [[13:26:47]] For 299 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Nightshenko, about Janiszewski Vasil Pavlovich, if you have anything else to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u211	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can inform because I have information about all the hospitals that were, five hospitals in 2004. in 2003, this year. The disability I'm present with is not an ethical diagnosis. If I have to, I'll tell you. There is a proposal today not to make a decision. and the Committee will consider this subject in the light of these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u212	Yes. Valerius Mishura, then Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u213	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, so I would ask that there be no hints here, I know Vasil Pavlovich Janishevsky for more than 20 years. He is a man who has worked in good faith in all positions and now, too. If there are any specific claims on specific matters, please make them known. And there's different hints: there's some kind of hospital. What, though, if a person is ill somewhere, what does he have to do with being hospitalized and all that? I would ask you not to ask that question. And I'd like you to support my candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u214	Yes. Igor Šurma, please. A faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u215	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I don't have any claims about this candidate. But I would like to confirm one thing. I am very supportive of Vladimir Yavorowski. What he said today deserves attention. The Law is above all else, especially in the presence of judges who are present. I would ask you, Mr. Vladimir Yavorowski, to take the same stand in principle so that you may have such a firm position toward other lawbreakers. To Zinchenko, by the time he's authorized, to form the National Deputies. In the presence of the judges, we demand the Law in relation to them, and here the highest officials of the State are violating the Constitution themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u216	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u217	Honourable Volodymyr Mihailovich, Honorary Head of the Supreme Court, Honourable Deputies, Honorable Judges. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I want to pay attention to two moments. First. The procedure for the approval of judges in the Supreme Council session hall is extremely ineffective. I don't know what to offer, but that's not what it takes to really miss the judges through the x-ray and select the judges to be elected. We can easily make mistakes and not choose those to whom we should and choose those we should not. And the second question is about perpetuity. I think it was a mistake. There can't be forever. We wanted independence. I understand these were noble good intentions, but there should still be a term, like 5 years or 10 years, and forever should not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u218	Andrew School, please. Well, that goes into discussion, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u219	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to say that I'm not here to protect this judge or anything else, I'd like the committee to give a proper simple assessment, so that the reporter can tell whether they're informed about these hospitals, whether hospitals can influence the quality of the decision-making by this judge, because we're here talking about non-health, we're not discussing stay or. Being in office, we're talking about whether this is the person we're about to trust with hundreds of shares will ensure legal enforcement, whether he's a living law, because a judge is a living law. I'd like the committee to answer. If the committee is not ready, of course, this candidature will have to be postponed. So I wanted just the reporter to tell us a few words about this before I gave the word to the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, time for discussion is over. Please state the position of the committee, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I don't see any reason to change or question the decision of the Committee of Legal Policy, your committee of profile that we've entrusted with this work, especially given that if we start working on the medical boards and ask questions, including ourselves, you understand where we're going. Therefore, we trust and conclude that the head of the High Court, the State Judicial Administration, the qualifications of the candidates, has considered and taken into account this situation of human health. Vasil Pavlovich Cherniszewski was actually born in 1949. It's a young age. But please note that he has been a judge for almost seven years. And this situation of the presence of all the officials, the subjects of submission on the committee, as well as the circumstances impeding the judge to exercise high - quality justice, was neither violated nor naturally considered. The committee therefore proposes that the appointed judge be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u222	Please. Dear colleagues, time is up. The man had specific warnings, comments. Please, Nightmare. Perhaps Nightshenko will withdraw his warning. Apparently noshenko raised his hand for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u223	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have a warning coming. I want to explain my position. The candidate for this position is a disabled second group for today, for now. Under current legislation, a second-group disabled person can do high-quality work in any enterprise and institution provided that the administration provides special conditions. For example, part - time work, part - time work, work breaks, diet, and so forth. Is this going to be done to this candidate? Who will assume this responsibility for delaying some simple matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u224	Chernewsky, last one, please. Chernewsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u225	Judges, I'd like to say that the judge's approval procedure is actually kind of a joke. And it's basically imperfect. And the Committee's opinion on this issue is that judges themselves go out and lobby themselves. It's also one of the problems. And I will tell you that the main problem of the judges is not the hospital, I will vote in favour of the judge, but that the continued use of socialist law in this very case will be the case. If the judge says he's a marketer and if he's of any age, I think that age should be increased for judges like him if he says he's for market change, for democracy, and some examples of that, we have to let him go. Hospitals are bullshit because he's normal and he can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since the committee believes that we need to make decisions on this matter, I am voting on the election of Judge Janiszewski Vasil Pavlovich. This is the local court-martial of Kirovograd. Registration number 7064. Please vote. [[13:35:24]] For-161 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee once again to take note of all the materials of Mikola Petrovich Noshchenka and to study the matter. Well, I'm asking them to study and then make the final offer. Yeah, is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u228	Thank you. Let us welcome the judges whom we have chosen on an untimely basis today, and we wish them a fruitful fulfillment of their responsibilities. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider drafts in second reading. The draft Law on the State-wide Drinking Water Program of Ukraine is being announced. Registration number 5222. The reporter is Ivan Alexanderovich Zha, the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u229	No, Your Honor, this is reported by the committee, not by the Ministry. John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! For your second reading, a draft Ukrainian Law on State-wide Drinking Water Program of Ukraine is presented. Registration number 5222, developed according to the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Species and Drinking Water Supply. The program aims at stabilizing the population's supply of quality drinking water, biasing the emergence of an extraordinary sanitary and epidemiological situation and social tension in society. The implementation of the programme will improve the reliability of centralized water supply and water supply systems, improve the quality of services, improve the legal and regulatory framework in the field of drinking water supply, maintain a stable level of supply of quality drinking water with a gradual approach to European Union standards, prevent social and health-epidemiology in the country, and so on. The program has social and strategic orientation. During the preparation of the draft for second reading bill, the comments and suggestions made by the national MPs were taken into account in the plenary session last September, as well as about a hundred suggestions made to the committee. Public organizations took an active part in the preparation of the project, and public hearings were held to discuss the program. The completed project reflects energy conservation problems in the field, systematic policies and measures for implementing programs, and the main tasks of central and local executive authorities and local self-government in implementing them. Special attention is paid to the use of groundwater, the improvement of water systems, and the preparation of drinking water, the protection of drinking water sources. Measures to develop water systems in rural areas and areas polluted by the Chernobyl disaster have been overtaken. The program is complemented by a new section on education, training, training, information, and public participation in addressing the problem of drinking water supply with adequate funding. Clarified sources of funding are also available. Complementary provisions for the development and implementation of national standards and other legal instruments in the field of drinking water supply and water supply with appropriate financing, as well as the establishment of a laboratory base and the introduction of standards. The program is complemented by a new part on clarifying and sorting core tasks and on the basis of the amount of funding for the financial performance of the program. The committee expresses its sincere gratitude to the national MPs for their work and asks for support for the draft of the State-wide Drinking Water Program of Ukraine and its adoption as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, what will be the warning regarding amendments that you think are not taken into account or taken into account? Virtually all the changes are counted. The committee did a fruitful job, did. Who has any warning about this law? Then, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. People's deputies would like to come into the session room, because this is a very important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u231	Yes, it's about a 15-year program, funding of 5.2 billion dollars. So, dear friends, I would like to take this document very seriously. You know the problem with water in Ukraine, that for rural areas that are either unsecured, or that system is created, that floods, that for urban areas. And you have to take into account that water in the twenty-first century is the main limit of any state. So today we need to be super attentive to this problem. The people said, "No water, neither here nor there." Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u232	Once again, please invite the national deputies to the session room. Before voting on the Black man's motives, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u233	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear people's deputies, the main problem of humanity -- it's not food, it's not energy -- it's water. And I would not like this bill to be overthrown today, given that there are few people in the hall or other motives. I think it's really a matter of honour, valor and heroism -- to adopt this bill today and to create a legislative basis to solve the problem of clean drinking water in Ukraine. I urge you all to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u234	Are we going through this law before we discuss it? For reasons, please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u235	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The program deserves to be accepted, there are no questions, but I would like to note the following. So that the executive, first of all, does it, and second of all, that it doesn't pass on the issue of water supply to commercial entities because they do it in a way that they don't do it, and because they're profiting from it. I want to pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u236	Rudenko, please. And we'll vote. Now will be your closing statement, Ivan Alexanderovich. People are tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u237	To be honest, I'm trying to take the time to get more deputies to their jobs, because the bill is really important. And I would like to point out that there were quite a few drafts in the walls of the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that other programs are now being developed together with the Committee on Housing and Social Affairs, so, honourable colleagues, please try to help with all possible methods of adopting this bill, it is calculated in three stages, these steps can be controlled, including through our parliamentary control methods. I think given that water is really, if we say oil -- black gold in Ukraine -- it doesn't smell like Kuwait, but our water arteries, our water capabilities are pretty promising, so let's work for our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u238	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's only one thing I want to say. Dear National Deputies! We need to take him now why? Because there will be a budget resolution, there will be proposals for the State budget for next year, and if we don't accept this bill now, we won't be able to start this program since 2006. So I invite you, and I call upon you very much to respond responsibly to the adoption of this bill with a view to launching this programme since 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, let's listen to Hennadi Borisovich Rudenko's call to work for our Ukraine and we will accept this bill. It's about voting a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill of the Law on the Universal Program of Drinking Water of Ukraine. Registration number 5222. Please vote [[13:44:22]] For 345. The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 289 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 5144, is being announced for consideration. [[on illegal possession of means of transport]] Markusz Maria Andriyovna of the Committee is a deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u240	Marcus, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Law amending article 289 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in the second reading. [[on illegal possession of means of transport]] eight amendments have been made: four were made by Deputy Marcus, four by Deputy Noshchenko; seven were accepted; one was rejected. And if Noshchenko does not insist, please accept the bill in second reading and in general as a law. An appropriate decision is taken by the February 8, 2005, committee to which the committee is requested to recommend the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u241	Mikolo Petrovich Noshchenko, are you insisting on your amendment? No, the author takes off her amendment. The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, registration number 5144, is put to the vote. [[on illegal possession of means of transport]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u242	I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[13:46:13]] For 176
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u243	The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u244	Dear colleagues! Maybe you're not all mobilized, I'd like to support the bill, the amendments are accounted for, and there's no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u245	Jaroslav Suhi with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Maria Andriyevna, you remember that during the first reading, there was an open discussion about the fact that this bill severely mitigates criminal penalties for those who hijack transportation: railways, cars, and so on. It is quite clear that no one will vote in favour of such a bill, especially today, in the revelry of criminality on our roads. See what today’s newspapers say: People are thrown out of cars, thrown out, and taken away by car. And there were humanists who were trying to soften, introduce, in general, some kind of conditional punishment for "the kid took the car for driving at night." This bill cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u247	Yes, please, Nightshenko, then Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u248	From 7 to 15 years of imprisonment, do you feel that punishment is too soft? She's at the death penalty level, at the level of assault on her life.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u249	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you, I'm on my way. Dear reporter, I would like to point out that, in considering my amendment to the Committee, I was not invited and I couldn't stand my ground, let's say, my position. So, I think we voted right today to be able to work again with the participation of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u250	Yes. Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u251	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Respectable national MPs, Ukrainian citizens, have now come up with a question, which is incomprehensible in which initiatives to ensure that those criminal gangs, who have so-called incursions in Ukraine and continue to rob cars in all regions of Ukraine, have the opportunity to do so legally. In fact, without any criminal responsibility. At a time when the President, the Government, wants the public to have order in the country, the Law, all answered and were equal before the Law, the system of responsibility is softened so that the transport operation can be stolen, whether to drive or not, or to resell, but at the very moment of the crime, man was not afraid to do so. I think we should not adopt such laws, we should adopt laws that protect people, not protect criminals. This law is impossible to pass. Socialists will not uphold such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u252	Thank you. Please, Maria Andriyevna, your position, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, if you have not already voted in favour of this bill, give the committee the opportunity to rework it in a second reading so that your comments are taken into account. Please vote for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to vote on the second reading of the draft Act amending article 289 of the Criminal Code. [[on illegal possession of means of transport]] [[Registration number 5144]] For the second reading again. [[13:50:14]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the responsibility of citizens and officials in the executive direction]] [[Registration number 5311]] Reporter: Marcus Maria Andriyevna Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u255	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the responsibility of citizens and officials in the executive direction]] [[second reading]] There were 14 amendments to the bill, 12 of them included, and 2 amendments were rejected. If the author of these amendments does not insist on voting, I ask that the bill be supported. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, all the amendments, except for one, the People's Deputies of Hell, are taken into account. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. No warning? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the responsibility of citizens and officials in executive conduct is therefore put to the vote. Registration number 5311. Please vote. [[13:51:58]] For 229 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. Registration number of document 6052.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u257	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is on the second reading of a bill that I have drafted with Peter Stepanovitch Cibenk, which harmonizes the position that regulates the appointment and payment of state social assistance to disabled children and children with disabilities. I want to say that virtually all the suggestions, not practical, but all the proposals for second reading are included in one or the other. The bill refers to the harmonization of other bills that provide pensions and state social assistance in the context of children with disabilities, disabled persons from childhood. There are norms that harmonize these legislations, and there are norms that improve the position of our children with disabilities, the disabled from childhood. I ask you to support this bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u258	Who has other thoughts, suggestions? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u259	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And as one of the authors of this bill, changes to the basic law, and as chairman of the committee, I would ask my colleagues to support this document. Indeed, it is well written. There is no reference to legal administration. All notes are taken into account. Except for one. There's been a technical error. On the second page at the end of the sentence you have to delete the word "pays" and "pays" the word. It's a technical error, it's stolen when printing a document. And I would like to support this document with such a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u260	I confirm that such a technical error is indeed and I ask you to consider it purely technically on the basis of voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u261	There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood. Registration number 6052. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u263	Please vote. Here comes the vote. [[13:54:51]] For 263 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u264	Thank you. Be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u265	The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[on families of deceased hospital and hospital workers]] Reporter to the committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Anastassiev Valentin Alexiyovich. Please. Dear colleagues, before the break, this is the last document. I'm asking you to stay put.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u266	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Your attention is drawn to the amended bill, registration number 6082, which was adopted on first reading on 20 January 2005. This includes the extension of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection to the families of the deceased hospital workers and hospitals, not only Leningrad, Stalinrad, Odessa, Sevastopol, but also to the families of all the hospital workers who were killed in the years of the war in the war zone. During the drafting of the bill, five proposals were received from the Ukrainian people's deputies, four of which were taken into account, one was rejected, but instead it was a time frame for introduction. It is proposed to be implemented by the project, with effect from 1 January 2006. The Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council has announced the draft without comment. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, at its meeting, considered the bill and recommended that the members of the Supreme Council should adopt it as a whole. Please support the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m0.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? It's a second-reading, second-reading and, in general, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, registration number 6082. Please vote. [[13:57:25]] For 246 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 4 p.m., the evening session will begin.
