ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Now, dear colleagues, we haven't announced the issue yet, so let's talk about the procedure. I don't know, I'm gonna ask everyone to leave right now. Turn on the “Council” system. [[16:00:49]] Registered -325 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council before the morning session, and at the Conciliation Council after the morning session, we discussed the matter of our future work. We agreed on three questions. The first thing we're going to ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is to look at those statements that have already been made about the composition of the terms of reference, and we're going to vote on it. Second, recommend that the Supreme Council continue the evening session until 9:00 p.m. We made that decision. Next, we agreed that if, according to the drafts that are under consideration, there would be necessary documents from the committees that recommend considering them in the second reading, then we would put to the vote that we would withdraw from the rules and conduct the appropriate consideration. After I checked those three bills that we were supposed to consider, they don't have any documents and committee decisions. Therefore, at the Conciliation Council meeting, we agreed that we would postpone the consideration of these bills to committee decisions, and we will consider a bill for which the necessary documents are needed – Bill 7181 “To amend the Customs Tariff”. That's the deal we had. I'm considering that this arrangement is going to be met, and we agreed that we're going to stop blocking. So I ask everyone to sit down, and we'll make the right decisions. We've also, your honor, made a decision before, a moment before that, we've made decisions, honourable colleagues, that when the video is ready for the events reported by the National Deputy of Drought, we will look at them. So please turn on the display if you are ready. I'm asking everyone to sit down. We're already working on the Rules. [[Video Preview]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u2	Please, the Drought microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u3	I want to tell you that it's already in my backyard. Don't be surprised, because we can have you, and on the one side and the other side, our street passes through, and that's in my yard. And that's personal protection. Trust me. Let me tell you. Believe me, this is the responsibility of the poor in Ukraine. You go and take a look at our farm. All of this is happening in my yard. And when he was asked why he came? He replied that he had come to protect the People’s Deputy Drought of Tetjan Volodymyrna from terrorist attacks. When we asked, “From what kind of attacks? ” He replied, “Military.” We asked him, “Have you come to protect us from the police? ” He said: “Yes. I have come to protect you from the police.” I personally asked him, “What police? ” This must be done through the fence, breaking into the courtyard. Everyone was seen by Gorbal, a national MP. He's right in front of you. We've got the tape on. I was in my backyard, I was with people, because yesterday, as you know, was the celebration of John the Bath. There were thousands of people in the center of the village. They won't let me in, as you can see. They won't let me into their home. It was already dark. That was about 21 hours ago. Then I told them, “I ask everyone to leave my yard.” I said it as good as I could. I showed them my ID. Then he said you could go through. I met this man and invited him to join me in my courtyard. He said that he was carrying out the commission and that he would report clearly to the district attorney and to the Attorney General. When I asked him what was going on, he said I wanted to talk, yes. I say I have no reason to talk to you like that. There's people here. You can tell people what you want. And he told me again that we had received an anonymous phone call that today in the village of Kovalivuka there could be a terrorist attack from your personal security guard, "Gurza". And then I say, “They have been working with us for two years and protecting just the villagers who live here, and. [[B in m in s a l in]] By the way, when ICTV asked him who you were, he didn't answer. He said go for a walk. When a lawyer, my lawyer, said that there were still claims against you, he said: “Except that we have come to protect the national MP, there are no more questions.” When asked what questions you might have to ask her husband, he replied, “No, we are protecting the national MP.” I'm asking journalists on the third floor for a press conference. It's going to sound everything, because we're going to be showing the same tape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u4	That's it. We believe that when the show was over, were we finished? Yeah? Please, thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Well, we don't discuss these issues, dear colleagues. We're not discussing this, dear colleagues. Well, that was it. I'm asking you, we're going to have to talk about this right now, so I'm asking you. Dear colleagues, who would like to explain this matter to the Minister of the Interior, please identify yourself. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:23]] For-300 Please, the minister's microphone. Oh, here from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u5	Dear National Deputies! I want to let you know that this is, from my point of view, purely a woman's story. Yesterday, 6.07 p.m., at 11.50 p.m., the head of Vasilk's Yaremenka Paradise Department, telephoned a person who presented himself to the National Deputy Drought Aunt Volodymyrovna and informed her that I was reading from the book "Call Records to Militia" and informed her that she had received information from official sources that her private house, located in the village of Kovalivka, had been visited by armed men in masks, armoured persons and other special agents to illegally encroach on her home and asked to send people to protect her as a national deputy. [[corresponding address]] After that, from my command, the chief of the Yalovenko District Department sent a “Berkut” district office. After that, he was told that Mrs Susuha did not trust the Kyiv district “Berkut”. After that, the Ministry of Internal Affairs gave the best to protect the National MP, which we have is a special unit called Sokol, which came in to protect the National MP. But a woman is a woman. She said she didn't want protection. After that, Sokol got on a helicopter and went home. I think, frankly, that Mrs. Drought's entire emotionality is connected to one -- her husband, Mr. Drought, is going through a figure and charged with 2 criminal cases and is now hiding from the investigation, including I'm not ruling out that he's hiding in this little property where he's protected by a private security firm called Drought's wife, Gurza, who did resist the militia yesterday, and because of this, you've actually been fixed, localized on the grass, you've seen it. If Mrs. Drought says from here now that she promises the people of Ukraine and swears that the man is not hiding in her room, I'll take that into account. But I fear that all emotions are related only to this. And I want to inform you that no wife's authority can protect a suspect in the criminal crimes of ex-governor Drought.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u6	Drought, replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u7	First of all, this action started yesterday at 4:00 p.m., first of all. And the Berkut unit arrived yesterday at 16. At that time, I was in the Sumskie region. I got a call from my receptionist and was told that all over the village there are units in the same masks in the same outfit. I'm home. I can't drive anymore. This is the first time. Secondly, as a national MP, I wrote an open letter to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council. And I had to report to the nearest law enforcement authorities, the Basilk district. I reported that there had been terrorist attacks near my house for a few hours, near my people and me. That's a second. Thirdly, if "Berkut" came to protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u8	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u9	And as a national deputy, they don't resist, they don't swim through the fence, they don't break the fence, they don't break into the building, they don't tie their hands. By the way, I have handcuffs in my bag, no people, no women, because women were protecting me. If it wasn't for the people of the village, they wouldn't have protected it. And the helicopter doesn't go to school where the kids are. If this is the protection of a national MP, please tell us, in what state of law do we live? And the last. When asked what question you came to ask him, is there any question for my husband? I want to inform you how Mr. Minister has been used to calling on television lately, it's a replica, it's a speech, and my husband, like everyone else, has gone on this challenge, given a witness, and there were no more claims to him. One second. And so they came to protect me, as reported by those in masks and masks that you saw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s customs tariff laws is under review. From the procedure for consideration of this bill, write down, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Paul Kachur, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u11	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill, which is now being proposed for consideration, went through a committee, went through a number of working days of agreement in every position, went through a working group meeting. All the representatives of each faction had the opportunity to discuss in all the positions presented today in the proposed project. We found compromise. That is, today it is an economic law that is not bound either by WTO or by EEP or by the EU. This is an economic law that works to fill Ukraine's market, which works to export Ukrainian products that work to fill the budget. I don't think we have any reason to block or vote for this bill today. Our faction will support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u12	Yes. Please, why is everything that's been recorded from the place gone, dear colleagues? On the board, I don't see who should be next. Mishura, I can see that it's written down, but everything else is written down. Mishur, please fill in the entry. Valerius Mishur. Peter Simonenko, please. Yeah, that's it. Now it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u13	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First, I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to violate the right of the Communist faction and not to deprive at all of the mandate of the People's Deputy, members of our faction, when the drafts of the documents that were voted only yesterday evening in the first reading are not known today from whose initiative no longer to be examined and prepared, and the committee discussion for consideration in the session room. I believe that this was deliberately carried out in order to rape the Supreme Council today and were forced to do everything today to protect its right of national deputies not to allow today's abuse of the people of Ukraine. Third. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that today in England there are 6 subway breaks and 3 buses. We don't know how many people died. And this tragedy is the result of what has to do with Iraq. We demand it immediately again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u14	Yes. Oh, dear, please. Dear colleagues, well, all in one condition. Well, please, you'll have some more. Well, then take it again. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u15	. A long, long time and. carefully considered. On the other hand, after yesterday's adoption, to the extent that I was informed by my faction colleagues, there was a meeting of the relevant faction committee. It decided that the bill could be considered on second reading. So I don't see any particular problems that might prevent us from considering it and making any final decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, let's move on to. Well, please, next time you take, say your position, I'm asking you. Well, they didn't all finish the phrase. Well, 10 seconds, please. Just let's work after that. Well, dear colleagues, I want you to work and make a decision as to whether you want the blockade again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u17	Simonenko. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I want to inform you that those that you allegedly voted on are also without Committee decisions. And you violated your right and placed them on second reading. I therefore believe that the 5200-2 and 7564-1 vote should be lifted. You were not entitled to put them to a vote at all as Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u18	Yes, dear colleagues, we've been exchanging thoughts on this point, and I want to say that after I've been able to check out the laws that don't have the right recommendations, they've been postponed. I mean the committees. But, dear fellow Peter Mikolaiovich, in those circumstances I could not, I did not have the opportunity to just physically check, Peter Mikolaiovich, there is now a possibility, I am also a believer and a rule-by-law act. To the great, I ask you, dear fellows, please, I beg you, come on. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, were silent when the Conciliation Council made the appropriate decisions. Give me your respectable colleagues. I ask you once again, vote on the right of the Head of the Supreme Council to form a schedule of meetings - there will be no problem. All of it. Yes, please proceed to the procedure. Yes, who will report the bill? Vitaly Hometic, please. Out of the hall. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u19	The procedure was just now. I've signed up for three minutes, please, Your Honor, next time please, please, on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that yesterday there was a third vote after this bill and I will not stop at the basic positions of this bill because they are all known. I just want to say that 167 proposals have been made by the National MPs, 17 National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers, of which 31 have been taken into account. And the most controversial standards were discussed yesterday after no effective vote. And in these positions, there was agreement between factions that did not take part in the vote and the government. I want to highlight for the transcript the positions that agreed upon. These are sausages, sausages and similar products, which offered 30 percent in the current project, but not less than 0.6 euros, agreed to 0.8 euros per kilogram. This is group 16.01. As well as canned meat, it is a group of 16.02, the same offer, 30 percent, but not less than 0.8 euros. Everything else remains in the committee's agenda, and we've discussed this bill repeatedly in different working groups, councils, between producers, national deputies, government officials, and, in principle, this bill has been agreed upon. On those issues that were equally controversial, this bird’s meat was found to be in agreement with the producer bird association and the last proposal already in the bill is 0.4 euros per kilogram, 10 percent but not less than 0.4 euros. But this rule should only take effect after Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization, as required by the producer bird association, and it was agreed with everyone. There was also agreement on plants, following the insistence of the Association of “Ukraine” and an agreed rate of 10 per cent and 15 per cent. Let's go meet the manufacturers of the confectionery, where the zero percent interest rate on the raw material was reduced, on the raw material that is not produced in Ukraine. Additional consultations also agreed on the failure to import cane like plants into Ukraine, and the question was also raised in the previous vote. So I can confirm that the basic positions that were echoed were agreed upon and accounted for by the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, as amended, please, Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u22	Request to vote on the committee’s second reading and decision as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I beg your attention, Julia Volodymyrna, listen, please, this is about the customs tariff. If we act as we once agreed on the Conciliation Council, that June 16 was voted on, plus what we agreed on on meat 04. So 16 June plus 04 in all the chicken and 06 in the Bush's legs, we are voting now in general without any amendments. 16 June plus 04 in all positions of one and a half we have on the smoking and 06 in Bush's shoes and we vote in general, if there is such a position it protects all the interests of the national manufacturer, and allows us to adopt the law otherwise to collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u24	The position of the committee, and then we ask for the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u25	We have considered this issue on the committee and the committee members to express the view that the positions that have been voted on should be voted on. But there was an insistence on the government, and the decision that it is finally in this table. So if there's this proposal and it's supported by the hall, the request to put it to a vote, and it passes. Because in the table given by the committee, these proposals are rejected. So put these amendments to the vote and vote in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u26	Please excuse the government’s position on the proposals made at Mikola Melnikov, at Mikola Rudzkowski, Mikli Melnika, and in those amendments that were not taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u27	Thank you. And the position of the government is this. After the bill was adopted in the first reading and directed for second reading. We went back to our first reading. And the government, along with the people's deputies interested in our parliamentary-government working group, gathered an association of birds, meat producers and agreed on the next steps. I'd like to say it again. By meat and a specific rate of 0.6 by sausage and canned meat, 0.8 by chicken, except for carcases, 0.4 by carcases, 1.5 by carcases to close cheap imports here. Plus, the government signed a memorandum saying that in the next fiscal year, possible compensation for possible losses will be protected by budgetary subsidies, both for birds and for pigs. This was supported by the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Agrarian Committee, which sent an appropriate decision to the government with support. Hence, from the point of view of the reporter, Mr. Hometicnik, the government proposes to adopt this Law in the way that it was agreed between all parties. Again, and considering that in discussing the 2006 budget project, you and I are going to take a very close look at subsidy policy in the field of animal and bird husbandry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u28	So let's say, your honors, that if we don't agree, we vote the amendment and then we'll move quickly to the result. Rudzikowski, please, your first amendment, or the amendment you insist on, let us vote on it. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u29	Please pass the word to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u30	Dear friends, Bill No. 7181, has been considered on the second reading for the third time. In our previous consideration, we were able to significantly improve the content of the plenary, but with the support of almost 300 people's deputies. Our amendments to import duties for meat and meat products in the “02” group for beef and pork have been voted on in principle and are extremely important. It was the Supreme Council’s will to raise the rate of duty to 20 percent, but not less than 8 euros per kilogram. 0.8 euros per kilogram. The chicken, Bush's legs. Don't fix me. I'm going to the repairs. But today the Cabinet of Ministers against which we deny, the amendments must be put to the vote, in accordance with the Rules, if it does not get 226 votes, it will be regarded as rejected. So I have a second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u31	Wait, what's the amendment, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u32	I can tell you what this is about. It's about a friend's amendment. It means fresh beef, or cooled, carcases, and half-carcases. In the current edition, 10 percent, but not less than 0.6 euros. People’s deputies Melnik and Rudzkowski offer 20 percent, but not less than 0.8 euros. This proposal was put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u33	We've justified it. Please. Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u34	This is the second amendment. She voted and won 288 votes in the previous vote, but now it's a new edition and a proposal in the committee's decision that this amendment has been rejected. So put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, let's take care of this. If this was a decision and voted by the Supreme Council, it remains the decision of the Supreme Council. Just a minute. If not, then we return it to the first reading. Is that how it works, Bill? If we're going to re-read it, then let's re-vote it. Committee position, please. The position of the committee should be. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u36	Once again, I would like to point out that we have applied the Rules and the Rules have made it clear to us that on the second reading, the same proposals are being considered again and the decisions are being taken again, so I repeat that this proposal has been rejected by government officials on the Committee, but we can certainly make it. But you can certainly put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u37	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, let us not be disturbed. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, please put to the vote all the amendments that we have voted on. Let's vote for everything to be included, because the Supreme Council was then determined, and then we vote separately on 3 amendments to the chicken and we go through this law. Otherwise, we'll need two hours to follow all the adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u39	Honorable National Deputies, then we still vote on the second amendment? I ask the author for an amendment. Well, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you've already said that. Well, please, Melnik, and we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u40	Dear friends, the point is that 282 deputies voted for this amendment last time. Who has the right to make a decision? The committee? What right does he have, authority? Who authorized him to cancel these amendments? Therefore, this amendment must remain and we must go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u41	For this matter, I now request, my fellow Members, the Chief Legal Authority and the Science and Experimental Authority to give their opinion on an urgent basis. Let them write to us about that. So we don't have any readings. And now, dear colleagues, since we've already had our will, I don't know what to do until we have a conclusion. Should I vote on these amendments again? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, please. So I am. That we can move on, so we need to find out where we are right now. There's no information. How should we act? Please. Well, please. I need to clarify how this is required under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u42	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose these three amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u43	Three minutes, please exchange your thoughts. Now, as long as I get a lawyer's opinion on this. Please, Kseniya Lapina, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u44	Please pass the word to Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u45	Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u46	Thank you. Boris Nepaly, Victor Yuschenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very typical situation in which we find ourselves practically every time we review the drafts in a second reading. A second reading of the bill is not a complicated special procedure. It's standard, so even, I think we could do it now the way we always do it. This is a self - examination procedure, and all the amendments, regardless of how they were considered earlier, on second reading, are again considered, as was the case at the first reading. So in this situation, it's perfectly clear what to do. Where the authors insist on this, and in this case they may insist, the amendment is again put to the vote. And everything, there's no problem here, it's a perfectly typical situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u47	Honorable Colleagues, in harmony with article 6.6. 11 The re-reading of the bill is carried out under the “second reading” procedure, i.e. we need to follow all the amendments and vote them again. Please, Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u48	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u49	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u50	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. We have voted on these amendments. Governments rejected and supported what they had made on second reading. In general, the draft was not voted in favour. Once again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, as you are now told by the Legal Office, has not generally voted in favour of him. And to keep it for consideration, he was sent on second reading. But all these amendments have been voted on. No other amendments had been made and the authors did not insist on the re-voting. Therefore, the rate of 20 per cent is maintained here. Who has the right to replace it by 10 per cent again? It's that all the junk overseas will be brought here, killed by our domestic producer, misquality products will be passed on to the consumer, cheap meat and expensive sausages have come over. They'll have it. When is this gonna end in broad daylight?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u51	Jeremiah, please, the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, the last time we voted, in fact, remained at odds. There is no Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u53	Please turn off the microphone. I asked Jeremiah. Let Jeremiah pass the vote, please. Well, respectable colleagues. Jeremeyev’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u54	Please pass the word to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, when we voted last time. In fact, we have three non-voices left. This is a hens ’ remedy, a cane repair, and a small adjustment that involved sausages, meat products. If we do not have all the votes, we can only vote and vote in favour of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have reexamined the Rules. The Rules state that if the law is sent for rereading, it is carried out under the second reading procedure, that is, all amendments are voted upon. If we had voted and adopted in the third reading, sent for third reading, then the amendments that had been voted would have been already. We didn't have to look at it. All the other amendments we would have had to consider were those that raised the most doubts. Now, according to article 6.6. 11 the second reading of the bill is repeated by the second reading procedure, i.e. all amendments are voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to an understanding with the Regulatory Committee and have concluded that, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the second reading of the bill is done under the second reading procedure, i.e. all amendments are being considered if they are urged by national deputies. So the second amendment, one more argument, and I'm going to put it to the vote. Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u58	So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to offer you a compromise on the first amendment. Vladimir Mikhailovich, listen, if they're standing next to you, you won't hear a thing. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is an offer! Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a proposal, all the amendments that were voted on June 16th, put to the vote now, so that together all the amendments that are not included in the protocol will be voted on and then we will vote on the differences. Ask that question, they'll find it in the protocol. All the amendments in total 16 numbers that have been voted on and we're going to go back to the second reading of 16 numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u59	Deputies! Well, I don't know, I don't have the papers that were voted 16 today. Therefore, we must follow all the adjustments! Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We must follow all the amendments as required by the Rules! Once again, the Rules require, do you insist on the first amendment? I put to the vote Amendment No. 1 Mikoli Rudzkowski, Melnik, Melniczuk. Please vote. First amendment! Please vote. [[16:45:09]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Second amendment, please. The factions, please. Oh, come on, please! I beg of you, fellows of honor! Well, please! “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 5, People's Party – 11, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPI – 22, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, SDPU(o) – 14, “One Ukraine”, “Democratic Ukraine”, “Industry and Entrepreneurs”, “Democratic Initiatives” – 0, non-fractional – 6. Second amendment, please. Well, I'm asking you, well, don't ask me what motives?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u60	What can I give you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u61	Well, please. I say again, dear fellows, stop terrorizing. It's just me. I say, “Give!” Please, three minutes in favor of voting. What's wrong? Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u63	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we see that in this case it is no longer about the Law, which is generally agreed upon by two professional committees: finance and banking and agrarian, and the Government. The situation here is clear. We see that there is simply an attempt from those, or other reasons, to delay the consideration of drafts in order to fail them. Fortunately, what they failed to do last night is try to slow down the procedure. That's why we have a big request, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we have a big request, that we go now energetically on the procedure, not to be distracted by motives, because for reasons of vote, we have laws in general, not every amendment. And put the Law to the vote after these amendments in general, because positions have long been clarified and should be democratically anchored in the vote. Let's vote harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u65	Thank you. Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u66	I'd like to give it to Mr. Griffith Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u67	Sergey Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u68	Thank you. Two seconds. Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, is outraged at the faction of the Communists: why the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, is leading Parliament, trying to lead Parliament, by the manipulations in Parliament, as she ran “the only energy systems”. This is a crime that must be brought to an end immediately. And if that lady needs to be removed from the conference room, let her leave. And secondly, Vladimir Mihajlovich, if, as you read, everything is going through the second reading procedure, it means that it is necessary to amend it again, to consider it before the Committee and to go through it in a second reading. If not soon, the amendments have been voted on, Vladimir Mihajlovich. Either one or the other, or the second reading procedure, then please, fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u69	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u70	55th Precinct, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to calm down. The reason, after all, is that we always go in violation of the regulations, when we consider the law on second reading, we were obliged to follow the articles. The agreed articles, which we voted on, should be constant, the Committee had no right to consider them. When such a situation arose and the committee had already corrected the articles we have voted on, there was no other mechanism now, Vladimir Mihajlovich, how to make all the amendments that would now be insisted upon by the MPs who did not. It's just that there's no other way out. Now we have to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u71	Dear National Deputies! Thank you, time's up. Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u72	Please give the floor to Deputy Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u73	Valentin Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have a personal request for you. Let us not give in to the attempt of communists to disrupt the normal work of Parliament, let us work within the framework of the regulation. You just named a rule paragraph that calls for a clear, concrete work, that's the first. Secondly, I would like to say to the Communists that I respect my colleague, but I must warn you, if someone from the Communist faction dares to insult the Prime Minister, it will have to do with me personally. You got me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u75	Dear people's deputies, now we're back. Well, please, a line. Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u76	Dear colleague of the Teeth, I would like to ask you what I actually insulted the Prime Minister for saying that Julia the Prime Minister? By saying that she ran Ukraine's single energy systems or that I said she ran the hall? I don't understand what the insult was, it's all true. And one more thing, if a person goes to the Prime Ministers, but it is not necessary to say that he is a woman, he must be criticized on an equal footing. And I think that Julia Vladimirovna agrees, you don't have to hide your sex if you're the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u77	Dear National Deputies! We had this situation if the committee, when we sent a bill for second reading, respected the Ukrainian people's deputies. And he said that these articles were voted on, and then he suggested that they be placed in a column, if it was a law with a voted proposal that was left unvoted and undeclared, then we would not have such a stalemate in the session room. I want to tell the committee and the committee head, or you work in principle at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or you sign those bills that just give you. And direct them to the Supreme Council so as not to shift the arrow to the Head of the Supreme Council or make it extreme. You want to be all comfortable to protect your business. But then let us work to show respect for the decisions of the Supreme Council. Now you have to come back and vote twice the positions that the Supreme Council has found agreement on. So now that's a proposition, Rudzkowski, call it one minute. Name those amendments that have been voted on, and I'll put them to the vote to confirm the Supreme Council, if they confirm, then we'll go according to the principle only of the amendments that remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! Now two amendments have been voted, four, six, eight and ten are about beef and pork, frozen and cold. This is about increasing interest and protecting the Ukrainian market. Ten percent won't protect you. I'm going to all the factions now, to the agrarians, to the regions, I'm going to the "Centre" faction, to the "Our Ukraine," if we're hurting for the village, if the President, when he's sitting at the Cabinet of Ministers, says that we're not going to be allowed to move from Poland and from Turkey to produce. Let us act within the position of the President and protect the Ukrainian producer. And you, Mr. School, don't shake your head. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I want to make a point. I have a stenographer and we acted clearly on the transcript. The amendments voted on in the last vote are the second, sixth and eighth amendments. I can even say, after every correction, how many votes: 282, 249 and 246. Therefore, no charges should be made against the committee. The committee has the same national MPs. By the way, if Mr. Rudzkowski had appeared on the committee and insisted on the committee on these amendments, that question would not have stood. We invited Mr. Rudzkowski on several occasions, but there was no response.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u80	Thank you. Let's go to the bills. Please, Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, thank you for your warm, even your peers' appreciation and criticism. I understand that, and I don't think emotion is appropriate here. I think that, and I am sure that we have addressed the Committee on Rules of Procedure, and we have received an expert opinion from the Committee. We have referred to the Legal Office, which has given us a reference to the fact that, according to the article you referred to, we had no right to consider these amendments. It's not my fault that we have terrorists in this room who make 300 amendments each. How should we react? They make 300 amendments, and we have no honour to see them on the committee. We have therefore postponed all these amendments and, here, the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u82	Sergio Vasilovich, but when the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its second reading, voted in favour of three amendments, I think that the committee should take into account the will of the Supreme Council. Why didn't you count it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u83	It's not a regulatory norm. Let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has already voted. What reasons are there for rejecting this amendment by gathering ten men? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u85	You just read the article we referred to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u86	Matthew, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u87	Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, and honourable colleagues, I would like to inform you that no expert opinion, as said by Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, Committee on Rules of Procedure on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u88	I'd like to confirm that we have a letter that he signed, if I'm not mistaken, to the National MP, Sass. Does he work on your committee? And this letter was like the decision of the Standing Committee. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask the secretariat to provide me with a corresponding note when the meeting of the Regulatory Committee was held, when this question was considered, which decision was taken, and what decision and when it was made, was concluded by the Scientific and Experimental Authority and presented to them. Yes, honourable national deputies, we had three amendments: the second, the sixth, and the eighth. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, or I will do your request and your proposal, and I will vote immediately for three amendments and confirm. Or go out on a limb. Are you demanding every correction? The second amendment, please, we go after every correction. Please. We don't have a vote yet. Please, the microphone. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to give the floor to the people's MP Melnik, but I point out that this has broken down due to the amendment of Suprun, and therefore I insist that 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10, all of these parts have been voted on and that the National Deputy Homutinnik does not mislead people, but he sews up his gloves and does not place his deputies in the position of telling whom he is going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u91	I ask the secretariat to give me urgent information on the amendments that have been voted positive under this Law 7181. Yes, by the second amendment, please, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to the matter. I've been on the committee, I've been invited once, but the Burjak finance committee has been looking at this bill, which the Supreme Council has been looking at for a very long time, just for 10 minutes. And even there it was. Deaf with the blind. More. I've been making amendments. They didn't even want to listen. So to say that the finance committee, he was working on these amendments, it's totally unnecessary. That's why I want to tell you, Your Honor. We've only sent three positions before the vote. The rest was voted. So I would suggest, really, if it's your will to save time, let's vote for these three amendments that we voted on last time, and we're going to add three positions that are and literally in 10 to 15 minutes we're going to finish this bill. Is that so hard? No, we'll vote on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u93	Please, Simonenko, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u94	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u95	In accordance with the rules of procedure, I am obliged to give my word. Remember, please. Calm down. Remember, please. The Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, which was adopted and voted until the second hour of the night. Then they took advantage of every opportunity and everyone got it. Let's work until we're done with the matter. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u96	Vladimir Mikhailovich, hour, time only 13 seconds. Add. Dear colleagues, dear friends, distinguished voters, I now address the Prime Minister. In her eyes, we are all eyewitnesses, it has been proved that the document under consideration by the Supreme Council is being tampered with and falsified. The decision of the regulatory committee was falsified. If Prime Minister Yulia Vladimirovna is the Prime Minister of the State of Ukraine, I appeal to you, withdraw this document and bring everyone in accordance with the needs, requirements and standards of respect for the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u97	Well, please, Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished nationals, has repeatedly been charged with the address of the regulatory committee and has been called my first deputy. I would like to inform my honourable colleagues that the Regulatory Committee is considering the question of compliance with the Rules in the event that there is a mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council. There was no such commission under this bill. With regard to the letter to which the reporter pointed, the point was that the committee had been asked by the national deputy of Seminogue how to take the amendments to the second reading into account, if they were taken into account by the Supreme Council. And as my first substitute for the head, I signed the answer, based on article 6.6. 9 Part Three of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, according to which the question referred back to the second reading, all the results of the vote recorded after the first reading and the first second reading have been eliminated. So now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in order not to violate the procedure, we need to go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u99	Please, I'm just asking and begging you, don't give me instructions that I've violated. You organized an “interperson”: one asked for an answer, the other gave an answer, and you blame me for something else. I'm going to the Rules. Please, Assadchev. And I'm asking you to stop accusing everyone of breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends, first of all, to accuse the government or the Prime Minister of having something forged, is incorrect, because this bill has not been passed on to the government since he came here for the first reading. That's the first one. The other one. I still think that the proposal made by my colleague Melnik is perfectly correct. Vladimir Mikhailovich, to finish it quickly, let's put the second, the sixth, the eighth, they were actually voted, we're going to vote now and then we're going to vote in general because everything else is practically agreed. I think if this is a socialist requirement, I think it's going to be right to put these amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! A second amendment is put to the vote, which was supported by 282 votes in advance. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:04:22]] For-166 Correction not counted. The factions, please. Our Ukraine – 1, communists – 53, Ukraine – 39, People's Party 25, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 6, SDPU(o) – 10, Ukraine – 0, Democratic Ukraine – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, Democratic Initiatives – 0, non-fractional – 7. Third amendment. Supron, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Fourth Amendment. Rudzikowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! The fourth amendment has the same meaning, but it is beef ice cream, carcases, half carcases. There is a proposal to set 20 percent and 0.8 euros. This is the basic position in which meat is taken into Ukraine. I call on all the national MPs of those who are in power and opposition, if we miss this amendment, then, when you're driving three months into an election campaign, and when you're covered in all the words in the regions, you know that's because you didn't press the button today. So, please. click on the button and protect the Ukrainian manufacturer. Correction is about beef. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u103	Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u104	Same position. I can only repeat that in these positions there was a committee decision to reject. And this, by the way, 4 amendments, it wasn't voted in the last edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u105	So I want to remind you. I'm asking you to give me accurate information. The amendment was voted in 246 votes. They gave me all the information. Take a look at each other first, in this farm, and then you'll give information to Parliament. I'm voting on Amendment 4. Authors: Rudzkowski, Melnik, Melniczuk Please vote. [[17:06:48]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 54, “Regions of Ukraine” – 4, National Party – 26, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU-24, Ukrainian National Party – 3, SDPU(o) – 13, “Only Ukraine”, “Democratic Ukraine”, “Industry and Entrepreneurs” – 0, “Democratic Initiatives” – 0, non-fractional – 2. It's a 6-mendment. Are you insisting on her, Rudzkowski? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, this position is about pork. Again, this is the position in which production takes place in Ukraine. We have enough production in Ukraine. If we don't vote it, the Polish pork, which gets twice as many donations, will be imported by half of Ukraine. And anything on the right bank of Dnipra, on the left bank, on the right side of Dnipra, will eat Polish pork. And so please vote for 20 percent of the import duty as indicated in this amendment. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say that this amendment has just been voted on. Because now the revisions are rereading the second reading. And now it's a completely different numbering. So when I said about the beef that it was rejected, it was really rejected, and this amendment was accepted in the hall. But now it's the committee's decision to reject, as we said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u108	Then I apologize to Vitalia Homutinika. I was looking at the numbers that were before. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote Amendment 6, the authors of Rudzikowski, Melniczuk. Please vote. [[17:09:01]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Our Ukraine – 1, the communists – 51, the Ukrainian regions – 0, the People's Party – 32, the Tymoshenko bloc – 0, the SPI – 24, the Ukrainian People's Party – 4, the SDPU(o) – 16, the only Ukraine, the Democratic Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Democratic Initiatives – zero, non-fractional – 3. The eighth amendment, please. Are you insisting on her? A miller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u109	With regard to the eighth, carcases and half-carcases of pigs and 10 percent of pigs — paws, cuts of pigs. That's how we do it. Ice cream also needs to be set at 20 percent, but not less than 0.8 euros per kilogram. In this way, the rate of interest cuts will be substantially slowed down and the internal market will be protected. I'll say June 16 was supported by 246 votes. Dear colleagues, do we want to destroy our goodsman? I was looking into the hall, but I don't understand the situation. You're just voting. You're all voting to destroy the manufacturer to import meat from abroad. Well, then, it is your will, and the people's will to judge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u110	Please take the seat of the committee, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u111	This amendment was voted in the previous edition – 246 votes, but now, I want to stress again, rejected. That's why the hall has to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u112	The vote is amended by eight, authors Rudzikowski, Melnik, Melniczuk. Please vote. [[17:10:57]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, communists - 56, Ukraine - 2, People's Party - 28, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU-24, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, SDPU - 15, Only Ukraine, Democratic Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Democratic Initiatives - zero, non-fractional - 3. Yeah, next amendment 9. Don't insist. Ten. Are you insisting on her? Melnik and Rudkowski. Don't you insist? Let's move on. The supremacist does not insist. 13th Amendment, do you insist on it? Don't you insist? Let's move on. Oh, no? No, it's not. Yes, 15. Are you insisting? Well, I asked, you said you didn't insist. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u113	Regarding Amendment 13 on page 27, respectable ones, see. Meat, sub-products, cocks and low-processing chickens. If the bird is merely skinned, crushed, and headless. According to the draft text of the Finance and Banking Committee, the full rate is reduced by 6 times. You see, they're reducing the total wager that has been to this day by six times. 60 percent, but not less than 3 euros per kilogram to 10 percent, but not less than 0.4 euros per kilogram. I believe that such bets will have a negative impact on Ukraine’s own agricultural production. Ukraine has a hard time growing chickens. What's more, we've got 80 percent today. So I would like to ask you, this is where the "scissors of bush" is particularly concerned, so I would like to ask this question. vote for 0.7 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u114	So, shall we put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that there has been agreement on bird meat between manufacturers, associations, government officials and deputies who also represented these proposals. And it was adopted throughout the group of 020714,0.4 euros per kilogram, but this rule, by insistence on the very association, comes into force only as soon as Ukraine enters the WTO, into the World Trade Organization. So it was such a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u116	Amendment 13. shall be put to the vote. Authors Rudzkowski, Melnik, Melniczuk There's a vote coming. [[17:14:05]] For 118 The decision is not taken. 15 amendments, please. Rudzikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, according to the procedure, I urge you to put 14 amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers to the vote. It should therefore, according to the rules, be confirmed by 226 votes. The point is to install the alcohol imports of legs and chickens all over Ukraine of 0.4. If the Cabinet of Ministers wants it to go into effect, it takes 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u118	According to the regulations, you have the right to demand it, I am obliged to set it. I'm voting on Amendment 14. Change the vote. Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished National MPs, I remind you of the appropriate rules of procedure. If nothing has been voted in this position in the first reading and a new position has emerged, then it is possible to confirm. Now there's counting or not counting, so there's absolutely no point in voting for confirmation. If it were not in the left column in these positions of decision, then it would have to be done. So let's not confuse the hall. If it doesn't agree with that position of the Cabinet of Ministers, there's no vote on the law, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, I would like to tell the honourable minister to leave me with the right to interpret the rules in the session room. You may ask the Supreme Council to support or not to support any other position, and in accordance with the Rules, each part of the article must be voted on, and every amendment to the vote we have already introduced such a short procedure that we do not vote. So all I would ask in this case is for support from the hall. This is for us. It was in that damn mode. So I put to the vote Amendment 14 is the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers, which found support for the committee. It takes 226 votes to confirm it. [[17:16:52]] For the 250. The amendment found support. I mean, I got a lot of support. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 69. Communists are 0, Ukrainian regions are 0, National Party is 39. Block Timoshenko – 38. C.O.P. is 0. Ukrainian People's Party is 21. SDPU(O) – 14. Ukraine's only 18. Democratic Ukraine is 19. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 14. Democratic initiatives are 4. Postfaction is 14. So let's move on to the 15th Amendment. Do you insist on it? A miller, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u121	Dear colleagues! According to this situation today on the Supreme Council, where the oligarchs block and do everything they can to destroy the manufacturer, there is no further need to insist on the amendment. That's why Rudzkowski and Melniczuk and I are making all the amendments, which is why the social committee will not vote in favour of this law. Because it's a law to destroy an agro-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u122	Understandably, other amendments are urged by national deputies who have not been considered. Everyone, Rudzkowski, please, what's the correction? Correction number, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Now in the session room, we see that there will be 226 votes in favour of this Law. But given that the offers of socialists have not been made, this will result in us eating again in Ukraine: Polish meat, Turkish fat, and so on. But there will be no Ukrainian agriculture, no Ukrainian bird farming. We cannot take responsibility for such laws. Therefore, let those who vote see how they go to the electorate and what they will say to them. What you're going to tell those girls you told them you were worried about a simple Ukrainian. You destroy the village, you destroy 30 percent. I'd understand if Yanukovic did. But you all went out and said you were from the village and from Ukraine. You're destroying it! Vote for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of vote, please sign up for three minutes on the grounds of voting for the adoption of the draft as the Law. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u125	Yuri Carmazin, the Party of the Motherland Slayers. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. In principle, there are unprecedented things happening today, unprecedented, I repeat. I did not make any amendments because I understood that the amendments voted on were not re-voted. Everything that's happening today reminds me of the very bad carnivores who cross the cards during the game. This is not the correct interpretation of the Rules, it is not the protection of the interests of the domestic manufacturer. I support what Rudzkowski has just said. In this case, he's right. We now allow oil to be imported from Poland, let us both have meat, and let the bird carry everything from Turkey, as tomatoes, cucumbers, and flowers are brought in today. That's what everyone's happy about. Stop, stop, and do not vote in general. Remake the Law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u126	Oleg Grachev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u127	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that you have such an honorable Presidium, from the mayor of Posjemov to former director Volkov. Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u128	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u129	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable peasants! The hard question is now: do we have a Government of Ukraine or a Government of National Fraud? I claim that there is now a change in national interests in the Supreme Council. At the request of the United States of America, what destroys a peasant is a vote. And once again, the citizens of Ukraine, you've already eaten cheap meat, three months ago, from every TV screen, they told you you were going to eat cheap meat. You're going to drive cheap gasoline, here's the score. But some time later, millions of people will leave the village and millions will be unemployed. Again today, the problem will arise that, with the collusion of the oligarchs and the Governments, this is being initiated, national interests are now being abandoned. The faction will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u130	Yes, Jaroslav Suchy, please, the faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u131	Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I wouldn't be too dramatic about what's going on. It's actually about voting or making decisions with a political context or political subtext. Certain obligations are being fulfilled. But there is a conflict of interest here: on the one hand, someone wants to fill the market with agricultural products, cheap meat, and on the other hand, we harm the domestic producer. I mean, agricultural. I was not surprised or shocked today. I haven't been able to “screw off” since yesterday when I saw a faction in front of me that called itself an agrarian who kept saying that the village was dying backs up what I couldn't even imagine today that they would vote for it. That surprises me. I have nothing to do with this faction, this politics. But the point is that we should eventually get out of the public interest, not some sort of seven-minute thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u132	Before the vote, the Prime Minister of Ukraine requests. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u133	Dear National Deputies! I want to remind all of us that for the last four years we've had across Ukraine's borders, through free economic zones, a total import of meat without any time, as well as a zero VAT rate. Now we're putting a tax on added value, we're putting in a real bribe, and it's completely protecting our manufacturer. If you put these proposals that the socialists and the communists have now announced, I mean high import duty is not meat, you know we have a deficit of half a million per year, we have a price for meat in Ukraine is 50-60 dollars. They do so in order to demonstrate the extent to which the authorities fail to deal with their duties and the extent to which Parliament fails to deal with its responsibilities. And that's why I want to say that the proposals that were made to raise meat to the sky are not for peasants, it's against the people of Ukraine. Know that if these amendments are voted on, that's 50-60 dollars of meat in Ukraine. If a bill agreed upon by the agrarian committee is now supported by all the professional committees and supported by the working parliamentary-government group, the villagers will be protected for the first time in four years, and the people will be protected from high prices. A complete balance has been found. The birdmaker association supported this in writing, and the meat producer association supported it in writing, and all the suggestions were taken into account. And I wish today that the people of Ukraine have expensive meat, not some factions of their politics. I am asking the Parliament and the faction of the People's Party, which has worked honestly in the working group, which has fully taken into account all the proposals of the Ukrainian agricultural complex, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u134	Before the vote. Dear colleagues! What else do you want to sign up for? Vaszczuk, please. Then let's re-record if we have to before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u135	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw attention to the last paragraph in the drafting of this law. The final amendment only takes effect after Ukraine has become a member of the WTO, and today the rate is one and a half euros per kilogram of cork. And so it remains, one and a half euros. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we've already taken the lead. After the vote, after the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What line? There is no reason for a replication, honorable national MPs. I beg you, three minutes, please sign up and vote. All of it. Please don't scream. Three minutes, please. I'm acting according to the Rules. I want to tell you one more time, please sit down and behave yourself. Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u136	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! There is no limit to improvement, but often false good intentions pave the way for hell. It seems to me that today's discussion, which, fortunately, was conducted without an audible escort, enabled me to explain all the positions. Profile committees have proven professionally the position that is now accumulated in the bill, which we propose to accept in full. Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk has shown that until we become members of the World Trade Organization, it will be 1 - 1.5 euros in import that socialists are so concerned about. So, dear friends, I would like to urge all of you to finally show that today in our Parliament has some results. And you don't have to hurt more than the Ukrainian village here than the people of the People's Faction who support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u137	Catherine Samuelk gives the speech to Simonck, the next Kozlowski will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u138	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when making a decision right now, would still like to draw your attention to the budget deficit, which is about a billion dollars. No one gave an answer as to where this money would come from and where we would finance the execution of programs to use the bill. And secondly, I'm talking to all of us again. Ladies and gentlemen, we were promised when customs tariffs changed, a few months ago, it's all those who scream today, I'm sorry. Blame us, Communists. Three months ago, they voted for it. Why did the meat not get cheaper? Find the markets, please. I want you to bring the Communist faction and show me where the 17-year-old meat you were talking about three months ago is cheap. Where is it? We're driving and we know there's no such thing. And never will be. And in this case, once again, I say, the faction of Communists for this disgraceful law will not vote. This is the betrayal of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u139	Anatoly Kozlowski, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think the government and the President want to do everything to make our people live better. So the government is actually making the meat market 8-10 bracelets, and we're starting to say that we don't support it. So I think we should uphold this law and make sure that the meat market is cheaper. So I think so -- let's talk less, let's vote for this law. And I'm behind this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Time's up. It is up to the vote to propose a second reading adoption committee and generally as a bill of the bill “On amending certain Ukrainian customs tariff laws”. Registration number 7181. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:30:53]] For 263 The law is passed. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 74, Communists and “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 34, Block Timoshenko – 38, SPI – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, SDPU (o) – 17, “One Ukraine” – 19, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, “Industries and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” – 14, “Democratic Initiatives” – 6, “non-fractional – 19. Yes. The draft Ukrainian Housing Code is announced for consideration and, before that, the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, the commission given by the Conciliation Council on the issue of co-existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pinzenic Viktor Mihajlovich, who was appointed by the finance minister of Ukraine for a term of office. The committee considered it and introduced a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the People's Deputy Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich elected in a multi-mandate public constituency, the electoral bloc of political parties, the Victor Yushchenka Block “Our Ukraine” in relation to his personal application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u143	I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich - 7783. [[17:33:01]] For three hundred Decision taken. Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform the People’s Deputies of the People’s Republic of Ukraine of the People’s Republic of John’s Republic of Ukraine of the Democratic Initiative and its membership in the “One Ukraine” faction. A draft of the Ukrainian Housing Code, second reading, second reading, and second reading are being announced for consideration. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The political and socio-economic transformations that take place in our country, the transition to a real market economy, make it necessary to reform many sectors of the domestic economy. No exception is the residential sphere. The basic document for the implementation of housing reform should be the new Housing Code of Ukraine, and its adoption would form the legislative basis for a real and effective solution to one of the hottest socio-economic problems of today. Providing our citizens with modern, safe, and quality housing. We are well aware of the extent of this problem. Today, there are more than 1.4 million families in Ukraine on the housing line, with an average annual housing security of about one and a half percent. The draft Housing Code provides extra housing for the disabled and veterans of the Great Homeland War, children with disabilities and orphans, the Chernobylites, the illegally convicted and later the rehabilitated and others. There are also guaranteed housing for military personnel, black people, police personnel, young families, rural teachers, rural doctors, and other categories of citizens whose rights are defined by law. When finalizing the draft Housing Code, the committee took into account all comments made by the Ukrainian national deputies when they considered the bill at the meeting on June 16, the current year. That's the way it's completely accounted for. 82a, 260 of Boris Bezpalog’s amendment, taking into account the rules of the Civil Code, includes 71 amendments made by Michael Noshchenka. The total number is 218, 229, 514 repairs by Valery Suškević. At the same time, after the introduction of a bill from the Supreme Council in Ukraine, amendments to a slightly different edition were made to read the second reading from Suškević. And the committee supports these amendments. And in the event of a positive decision, we are prepared to include them in the final edition of the Housing Codex. In addition, amendments to the draft for rereading the second reading committee received proposals from Mikola Rudzkowski, who were fully accounted for. The amendments of the House of People’s Deputy John Sidorovich have also been taken into account. Consider the amendment made by Yuri Carmazin. Article 47 of the Housing Code also clearly defines housing for a social welfare fund. The use of social housing is carried out by citizens. For normal pay and not privatized. Regarding the comments of Vitalia Šibko that Jacks should not evict people. The issue of the prohibition of the arbitrary eviction of the citizens of ŽEKami has been fully resolved only through the courts. And I beg you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u145	Allow the committee head to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u146	Thus, in fact, all the amendments made in the last session, including the committee, are requested to adopt the Housing Code in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee head's report has been made. All the corrections are actually counted as never. There is every reason to vote on the adoption of the draft law as a law. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Ukrainian Housing Code. [[Registration number 3584]] Please vote. [[17:37:53]] For 243 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u148	I thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u149	The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 35; Communists – 0; “Ukraine’s Regions” – 44; People’s Party – 32; Block Timoshenko – 17; SPI – 10; Ukrainian People’s Party – 21; SDPU(o) - 15, “Ukraine” – 13, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, “Democratic Initiatives” – 1, “Afterfraction” – 23. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” is being announced for consideration, second reading. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u150	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, which it adopted two weeks ago, your opinion is proposed for a second reading by the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of the draft Act amending the Law on Elections of National Deputies of Ukraine. I want to say right away that despite limited time, and I remind you that the Supreme Council's decree had established that amendments could be made no later than July first, the bill itself had aroused great interest in many Ukrainian national deputies. Some 30 Ukrainian national deputies submitted their proposals, corrections, and observations. Unfortunately, some of them came to us much later than the date set by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the committee could no longer simply take them into consideration, taking into account the volume, the number of these amendments. A total of 1,124 proposals, amendments, and comments to the law were considered. About half of them are accounted for, and the rest are not. What I'm saying is that the committee has complied with the agreements that have been reached, and all the changes that have been made to the electoral system are proposed to be rejected. So I think we can talk about the vote on the amendments, and I'm ready to respond to the corresponding comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u151	We're gonna go after the repairs, aren't we? Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Yuri Carmazin is the first amendment. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u152	Yuri Carmazin, a party of domesticists. The thing is, we're actually adopting a new law. So far, it's written in the first edition to make changes to the law, because it's a new edition, so I'm proposing a preamble. Adopt the law of Ukraine “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” in such an edition, because it is a new edition. Yuri Bogdanovich, this is a whole new law. So why do we say "make changes," you know, it's a purely legal approach to that. And I don't understand why they took it and didn't support it, but it doesn't hurt anybody at all, nothing. So, Yuri Bogdanovich, I would like to agree with this, and since this is a colossal work done, let's talk, and let's finish it properly, legally, flawlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u153	Thank you very much for your observation. I think you yourself have noticed that in your speech you have now used two different words of “new law” and “new law”. And as a sufficiently qualified lawyer, you understand the difference between them, and that's why I don't think you should take every opportunity just to use the time to perform. Since it's not really a new law, it's a new one, it's written that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote amendment number one Yuri Carmazin. [[17:42:24]] For-59 The offer is off-limits. Let's keep going. The Gorbachev insists on correcting it? Microphone, please, Gorbachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, the amendment is fundamental because it goes back to the new system, returning to the old system of 50 by 50 members of the Supreme Council. I mean, back to the majority system. Why? Well, to this day, I see the mood of all the leading parties to call themselves blocs with the names of their leaders -- that speaks of major parties. And that says that without names, without personality, no party is missing. Well, not to mention the ideological parties of the Communists and the Ruha. Second. I believe that any Parliament that is proportional to the system will be a strong break from the regions. Those individuals who are in the regions, and the policies that will come from the regions to the centre, I am sure of that. That is why I do not think that Parliament will have that weight or influence on the population. You know, in statistics, all parties have an impact in the country of up to 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, this is clearly your proposal, please, the committee only very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u157	Dear colleagues! This is exactly the case that I was talking about and there are a lot of amendments from my colleague Gorbachev that are translating the system into a mixed system. So I want to draw the attention of my colleague Gorbachev and those who want to support him. That there won't be a mixed election in 2006. It will not be because from January 1st they will take on the validity of the changes to the Constitution, where the proportional electoral system is envisaged. And so after January 1st, if you enter a mixed system, the Constitutional Court finds this law unconstitutional. And then we're going to run the election by law in March 2004. This is the only thing you can do to make changes to the mixed system here. I'd like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to vote once on the change in the system so that we don't vote 30, 40 times how many times these amendments are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u158	We will vote once more, the honourable colleagues that have made the decision we have supported all these decisions, that we are not changing the electoral system. And that we're not considering changing the percentage barrier -- that was the principle of agreement, that was the principle of decision. So once I put this proposal to Gorbachev's vote, then we don't vote on these amendments anymore. I'm putting to the vote the third amendment of Gorbachev. [[17:45:38]] For-35 The decision is not supported. Let's move on. Fifth Amendment. Is the raven insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u159	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, we actually voted. Is Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. So maybe this way let's see which of the national MPs insists on amendments that have not been taken into account. Let's go? Okay, come on, Gavrik doesn't insist. Zaligin doesn't insist. Konovaluk? No, it's not. Eight? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u161	Thank you. We believe that if the article “General Election Law” writes paragraph two that the basis for implementation is inclusion in the voter list, it narrows down the Constitution in article 41, where it is written that elections are general and only citizens who are 18 years old are eligible. Under such circumstances, if so recorded, a person who has not been included in the voter list may not even be granted a right by a court of law. Because he's not involved, he doesn't have a right, he doesn't have a reason, because it's written in a general election law. We believe that if you write this norm, you have to write in another article, not in the General Electoral Law. Therefore, we suggest that we delete paragraph two from this article. He was never, by the way, in any of the election laws that we had adopted. It's the first time he's ever written in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry that colleague Assadchev, and we've already been paying attention to this, mixes two concepts: law and law enforcement. I therefore urge him to refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the Law on the Specificity of the Implementation of the Presidential Elections Act, where this distinction is very clearly clarified. However, I confirm what he said: “A person not included in the voter list will not be able to exercise the right it has.” And that's why in the “headlines” it's a requirement to be responsible for the compilation of voter lists to ensure conditions for the realization of this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u163	The vote is amended as follows: Authors – Gavrish, Assadchev. [[17:48:33]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 12th Amendment. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, are you insisting on her or not? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, I insist on correcting these motives. What are we talking about? That one of the documents granting the right to vote is the temporary certification of a Ukrainian citizen. It's all right. But unfortunately, there are “for people recently admitted to Ukrainian citizenship” in parentheses. First, what is “recently”? One day, two, three, four, five or ten days? That's one norm. The other one. What if a citizen has lost his passport and is given a temporary citizen’s license, proof that he is really a citizen and so on? That is why I believe that this adjective “for people recently admitted to Ukrainian citizenship” is quite unnecessary here. For who will determine the term “recently” and what other cases, when there is, as it were, a temporary identification of a Ukrainian citizen. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich, unfortunately, what you just said is based on mixing two completely different documents. The point is that the citizen who filed the application and the decision to accept Ukrainian citizenship has been taken until he submits the documents that show that he has disposed of another state's citizenship, the passport of a Ukrainian citizen is not issued, but this document is written here. Therefore, “recently accepted” are those who are accepted but who have not yet lost their citizenship. This is regulated by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. As for the second document you mentioned, when a person loses a passport and turns to the police, it seems not to be a temporary citizen’s license, but a temporary identity card, since it is impossible to verify his or her identity without a passport. This person’s identification is often made available without even a photograph. Therefore, it cannot in any way serve as a basis for obtaining an election ballot at the polling station. I emphasize that these documents are called different names. But to emphasize this again, this information is in parentheses, since elections are very often a matter of misunderstandings. By the way, a document that appears to be a temporary identification of a person is not protected from counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u166	I'm voting on Amendment 12. The author is Adam Martinyuk. [[17:51:28]] Z-85 Decision taken. 14th Amendment. Taras Cranville. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u167	This amendment refers to exactly the same subject that was discussed. Done in a different way. This is about citizens who have lost their passports, not so many in Ukraine, and until they are given a new passport. I want to say that I don't think it's entirely correct to say that this document doesn't have a photograph of the right form. There is still a time before the next election, and after this help, people can do a whole series of much more serious, well, maybe not more serious than the election, but enough serious action. And so we can demand, on our part, that these police-issued aids also have a degree of protection. But to deprive these people of their constitutional right to vote, I don't think it makes sense. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u168	I would like to point out once again that this document does not support citizenship, it is not in the list of documents that confirm citizenship in the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. Of course, the Supreme Council can, by adopting a change to the Civil Society Act, and amendments to the 1993 decree, which approved the form and requirements of this document, can make this document a certificate of citizenship. Well, then there'll be reasons. Now there's no such legal basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u169	I'm voting on Amendment 14 of Taras Blackwall. [[17:53:14]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 22 Amendment, Taras Chernobyl. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. He's taking it off. Dear colleagues, we're working. Carmazine, Pisarenko, 28 repairs. Are you insisting? By 27, there's Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, here's the included amendment to the report of reverend 27. I object to this amendment. Please think about it. They can't be used in elections, in the polling stations of a Ukrainian citizen's passport issued using passport forms of the former Soviet Union. You can imagine how many older people, millions of older people, we're denying the constitutional right to vote. Because there are so many people who have a passport that is still issued to him by the previous State. So I ask that this amendment be confirmed by the decision of the hall. If she doesn't, she doesn't have a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2001 the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine signed by Anatolia Kirilovich Kinakh, Prime Minister, was to prohibit the use of passport forms. Today, the passport system is not accounted for. During the election of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine renewed this passport on two occasions specifically for elections. Second time without a cabinet meeting. Azarov just signed. And he acted in the same illegal way. Once again I want to emphasize, in fact, that there is no attempt at such abuse, no passport service does account for these forms, and as far as no one knows them, but they have been in reality for four years now, so that there are no such temptations, that's exactly what the norm is being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u172	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask more so, to give each other a compact explanation so that we can work more productively. I put to the vote the amendment of the 27th Jury of Klukkowski, who needs the support of the Supreme Council. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:56:01]] For-97 It doesn't count. 27 doesn't count. Yeah, let's move on. 28th, Carmazine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this amendment is a principle. Why? Because I propose in article 2, part seven, to set out in such an editorial – any direct or indirect privileges or, I stress, restrictions on the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens on the basis of race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social background and so on, here goes as it is now written and it is written that it is prohibited, there is no restriction on the participation of citizens in the electoral process, except for restrictions, I propose to write down the provisions of the Constitution, this law, this is written down, and add it to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the decisions of the court. So there might still be a situation like this, Yuri Bogdanovich, we're now preparing for both the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code, where we predict, including that the courts will influence these situations. And let's just assume this with you right now in this law, we're going to be farsighted. That's why it's in the complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u174	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I don't need to teach you, an experienced lawyer, that the Criminal Code does not speak of human rights, but speaks of sanctions that are very often associated with their nature of human rights violations, but with the decision of the court. And I don't teach you that court decisions don't matter, so they can't set or limit rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u175	I put to the vote the amendment of the 28th Jury Carmazin and Anatoly Pisarenko. [[17:58:08]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Yeah, let's go on with the repairs. 29th Martinowski. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Carmazine, 30th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I'm also taking Yuri Bogdanovich, I'm addressing Vasi, the honourable peoples of the deputies for support, that's why. So far, you've recorded that he has no right to vote but a citizen declared ineffective. I suggest you write that you do not have the right to vote of a citizen who has a court ruling that has become valid, to declare this citizen ineffective, or to be deprived of the right to exercise public election rights or to vote in public matters. This kind of formation is found in most civilized countries in Europe. And so, I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this amendment. It is absolutely principled and farsighted, in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u177	Well, I can only say once again that you don't have to mix the sanctions of the Criminal Code with human rights. A person who sits in prison has the right to move freely, but this right is restricted by a court decision, well, it didn't deprive him. He'll get out of jail. He'll be free to move. So here, we don't mix with each other. I will support the amendments to the Criminal Code that you have proposed, but this does not apply to rights and does not apply to the qualification of general active electoral law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u178	30th Jury Karmazin and Anatoly Pisarenko are voted on. [[18:00:11]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Let's keep up the good work. Adam Martinyuk. 34th, don't you insist? Takes it off, doesn't insist. Gorbachev, 36th. It does not vote because the electoral system is changing. 37, Carmazine. Are you insisting on her? Microphone. And 38, Yuri Anatoliyovich, please explain immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u179	38, I won't, I won't insist on 38. I'm happy with what's next. And 37, I have an offer. I'd like to be understood. Again, the principle is that using your voice in more than one area or attempt to do so is a criminal offence and is punishable by the Criminal Code. We have to write down the principle that people who read Criminal. The faithful, who read the election law, were already convinced that this could not be done. What is the meaning of what we write “banned”? All of this was recorded in the Presidential Elections Act. What? And how did they do that? Why? Because nowhere did we speak or conduct the idea that it would be persecuted in the criminal order. So I'd like to write it down, it won't spoil the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u180	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I completely share the motives for what you're doing, but I can't agree with implementation. Again, you know very well that the Criminal Code says that the crime is considered to be illegal acts, as described — where? - in the Criminal Code, not in other laws. Hence, no other law can qualify as a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u181	The vote is amended by 37, the authors of Carmazin, Pisarenko. [[18:02:20]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next. 40th Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Pull side, 42. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u182	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! This amendment refers to the equality of the right to vote. In this case, I don't think we need to speculate on the language issue. The Constitution makes it quite clear that article 10 of the Constitution refers to the official language. When it comes to the issue of equality of rights and opportunities for candidates in a member or party of the blocs, and their participation in the electoral process, if it prohibits the norms or limitations of those candidates in a language-based parliamentary capacity, that is to say absolutely incorrect. Because a member of the Ukrainian Parliament is obliged to speak English and to record such things is, with the rest, not correct. So I'd like to suggest that you support my offer. The words “speaking”, “or”, exclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u183	Unfortunately, dear colleague Dragnibok, you have misread the Constitution, you must read it all. And the wording of this paragraph accurately reflects the standard of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u184	Are you filming this amendment or insisting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 42, Oleg Pullibok. [[18:04:15]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Taras Cranwiel, 48th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Gorbachev, 49, it's coming off because there's a mixed system that's being proposed. 50 Amendments, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u185	Honorable National Deputies, this is about additions to another edition of Part Two, article 6. I suggest you write it down where violence is used, etc. goes, “the threats, bribery or application of any other action, as well as the inaction and negligence of officials who are authorized by the State to ensure the realization by the citizens of Ukraine of their electoral rights, is prohibited and is a criminal offence”. If you do not want to write “punishment crime”, Yuri Bogdanovich, these two words can be ruled out “is a criminal offence”. But what is forbidden and we thus urge all officials to comply with constitutional requirements and to realize the rights of citizens. I don't see why I ruled out this committee, and I didn't take it into account, in part, it would improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u186	I can only repeat the composition of a criminal offence by a criminal code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u187	An amendment of 50 — Yuri Karmazin and Anatolia Pisarenko — is put to the vote. [[18:06:15]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Correction. 51. You're insisting on her, you son of a bitch? No, it's not. Amendment 53. Carmazine, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Assadchev 55 is not. 56. Do you insist, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin? So you're trying to fix 60 pulls on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u188	Oleg Tajnibok - Head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! This article refers to the right to be a elected MP. And it's determined who can be elected deputy, and it's determined who can be elected national deputy, national deputy. It is not noted that a national MP is to speak the national language. The National Deputy of Ukraine is a statesman. And it's pretty stupid if a government official doesn't speak the national language. This is absolute absurdity. By the way, this rule exists in the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and the President of Ukraine may be elected this citizen who is bound by this law to speak the national language. There are so many complaints in this room that people don't speak Ukrainian. They allow themselves things that are totally unacceptable in other parts of the world. We have the only national language and, accordingly, a candidate for a state language, or a deputy who is obliged to speak the national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u189	I absolutely share your views on the problem that very many Ukrainian national deputies do not want to use the national language. Yet I would like to point out that our legislation is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. And the amount of passive right to vote, or to be elected, is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine. In the Constitution of Ukraine, where the election of the President is mentioned, there is a requirement to speak the national language. In the Constitution of Ukraine, where national MPs are concerned, such a requirement is not indicated. I can only send to these “baptizers” of our Constitution, I'm sorry they didn't write it down, but it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u190	It's about the vote of 60th Oleg Pullibok. [[18:09:01]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 61st Amendment. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, you insist. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u191	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, next one is the '80s I'm going to insist on. And 61, I want to say this. I am very sorry that Mr. Klukkowski did not complete the decision of the Constitutional Court, which he referred to, is that I am to the Tajnibok amendment. And it obliges the deputies and all officials to use the national language. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u192	These are different things. I ask you not to confuse: “use” and “possess”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u193	Now, about 61st, because I've had time to make amends. So I have an amendment that says that "an MP can be a citizen who lives" and it's all written. Further: “He has fulfilled all the requirements to ensure that violations of the constitutional and legal requirements for the nonconformity of his rights and duties as a national deputy are not brought to justice for the commission of a deliberate crime, unless the case has been dismissed and the authority of which as a national deputy as a result of his failure to comply with the requirement for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u194	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u195	Dear Yurie Anatoliyovich, I would like to recall once again the decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly distinguishes chatter, namely the claim for a mandate and the use of a mandate. So what you wrote is absolutely right about who has already been chosen. But it can't be applied until the MP is elected, and according to the content of your amendment, it applies to those who just have to stand up. So what's the verdict? From what? What subject matter of judicial review?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u196	I'll put 61 amendments to the vote. What's wrong? I understand the minute, please, 61 amendments. [[18:11:23]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Bastard, 62 revisions. Taras Cranville. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposed by the author on section 2, paragraph 3, on the definition of living in Ukraine for persons who are outside it limits the grounds for temporary stay abroad from other categories of citizens. Dear colleagues, if we adopt such a rule of law, we will have 10 million people to choose from. Why? Because they're working, studying, doing business today without deployment abroad, so I'm asking you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u198	Dear colleague Gaddaczyk, yesterday we discussed this amendment with you on the committee and I thought you understood that it was the same thing again, the norm of the Constitution that you can't change by this law. In accordance with the Constitution, anyone who wants to run for office as a national candidate has to live in Ukraine for the last five years, I remind you again: the last five years. One who learns or works abroad does not live in Ukraine. And not to me, as in the previous case, but to those who wrote the Constitution in 1996.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u199	I'm betting on the vote of 63rd Leonid Gaddaecki. [[18:13:20]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Taras Cranville, 64, do you insist on her? Microphone, please. And yours is 65. If you don't mind. And 66 is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u200	I just want to say 65, I don't insist on 64. I realize it's obviously not going to work out, but I still want to declare it. This is true of people, individuals who are citizens of Ukraine who are abroad but who have the status of a political refugee and are recognized by such appropriate structures of that State. I would like, by the way, to have some other factions that have exactly the kind of people who have even tried to include them on the list at least support this amendment. In our faction, let us say, perhaps there are no such people on our list yet, thank God. But these are people who have left Ukraine without their will because there are facts of persecution that have been proved in another state of the world. So I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u201	Dear Tarasse Viacheslavovich, this is how I address you because your father was a fine example of how to deal with this situation. He was offered many times to leave the Soviet Union, but he said, “No, I will be here on my land.” And he spent 15 years in exile, but he gained great authority and became a national leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u202	I'm voting for the amendment of the 65th Taras Blackwall. [[18:14:56]] For-41 The decision is not taken. It's the 66th. Taras Blackwall, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Assadchev, 67? No, it doesn't. Carmazine, 68, doesn't insist, he's up to 80. Chewchenko Alexander, 69th. Oh, no? Pisarenko, 71st. No, it's not. Gorbachev, 73rd. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u203	I've got till 78.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u204	It's Saligin, Assadchev, 75th. Are you insisting? Oh, no? So no. Carmazine, '80s.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u205	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'll have 96 and 100 next. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to write part two of article 11 in an editorial about principles. Paragraph seven is to prohibit officials and officials of public authorities, local self-government bodies, businesses, institutions and organizations, their managers, other officials and officials from using the funds they have set aside to ensure that they carry out their office or service functions for participation in pre-election measures, if this is not directly provided for in the established law for the conduct of electoral measures. Because you know what the mayors and ministers and others used it in the previous elections. In view of the experience of this and in consultation with the public organizations, we have made this proposal, developed by the Party Protectors of the Country. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u206	It's the 80th amendment, the author is Yuri Carmazin. [[18:17:13]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Amendment 78, please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u207	Dear colleagues, we need to confirm the room for the 78th amendment. I'm talking to my colleague Assadchev. Think about it, it's written here, in principle, a very democratic, civilized norm, but it's only at first sight. The point is that all the media, regardless of who they belong to, should give all candidates equal opportunities. Imagine we're going to go to the newspaper of our political opponents, or we're going to have our political opponents go to the newspaper Communist and our newspaper will have anti-communist publications or vice versa, that's not real, that's a norm that can't be fulfilled under our terms, so let me confirm it. We'll see if we can confirm and remove this rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u208	Adam Ivanovich, there is a proposal to add “except political party bodies”. The point is that in the section where this is about agitation, this amendment is included, it's there. It's just that we have to add to the end of the “except for political parties” and let's agree to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u209	Well, here's the question: Your Honor, if there's a private newspaper, it won't want to take you. What's equal access? What, are we gonna order her or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u210	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that elections are a public process and, despite private property, public law should still be in effect in the public process. A private media outlet may not lead any sort of agitation at all, but if it does, it is on equal terms for everyone. Otherwise, we'll just blow up the whole agitation system, then we'd better ban the agitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u211	Chubarov, please, for that matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u212	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there really is a problem. I understand what Mr. Klukkowski's reporter is saying. But in fact, where there are private media, they create an image, including a political, cultural, perhaps some religious or ethnic tradition there, and they link it to a certain direction in society and then, when the election comes, the placement of forced political advertising can spoil their image that they have been working on for years. Do you understand? This could be a literary publication, ethnic, religious. You can't leave it in a form like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u213	Honorary colleague Chubarov, ethnic or religious publications, or even more literary publications, are not obliged to participate in any preelection campaign. They may refuse to place any material that relates to agitation. But if they support one subject of the electoral process, they should be able to give everyone equal opportunity. Because the principle of equality is otherwise violated. And this is also a constitutional principle, and this is a principle that is enshrined in all the international electoral instruments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u214	I'm voting on the 78th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u215	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. Looking at the hall, I know it's going to fail. But once again, I emphasize, we will violate the constitutional principle. This rule has been in force in all electoral laws since 1997. Today we are taking a huge step back. And given that we have almost all the TV channels privately, we can imagine what preferences they will have. I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are not part of the parties that own television channels, to think about how you're going to run television broadcasts during the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u216	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you once again what this is about. Amendment 78 states: to publish in the edition “equal and impartial access to all candidates and parties, blocks, subjects of the electoral process to the media, regardless of their form of ownership”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u217	Except for party bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u218	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u219	No, that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u220	But at the same time, “except for party parties”. But since they insist on voting on this amendment, I put it to a vote. I don't have another way out. Please. Please vote. [[6:21:43]] For-61 The decision is not taken. So there's no correction. I said political party bodies. I said that, yes. We've already taken the amendment. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not intervened in this process, because I think it is self-evident of what the national MP Klukkowski said. Without including this amendment in the text of this law, we are really violating the principle that is most important, most fundamental. So this is the guiding principle of any election right. It's called equality. If this amendment to the amendment, which was proposed orally, is said to be by the people’s deputy, Klukkowski. I mean, where it's about party printed, I would just ask you to also, Yuri Bogdanovich, emphasize this, the print media of political parties. If it's not counted, we can actually have major problems during the electoral process. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to go back to this question and include this amendment in the text of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u222	Dear colleagues, I would have feared, among other things, that we would have asked for a veto in connection with a violation of constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u223	Dear National Deputies! Once again, please pay attention to the amendment. It is about ensuring equal and unbiased access by all candidates and parties, subjects of the electoral process to the media, regardless of the forms of ownership, except political parties. That's a very good offer. We need to support her. I'll put it to a vote. Please support this amendment, because otherwise, there will be no equal conditions for running electoral agitation. Please vote. [[18:24:18]] For 321 I'm talking about the bodies of printed, electronic, radio, that's the media, the party bodies. Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u225	Yuri Bogdanovich, please rest for a few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. René Vanderlinden, is visiting Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and invite us to address the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u226	Dear colleagues, let us sincerely thank the President of the Parliamentary Assembly for his clear, objective, kind position toward Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament. We expect to work productively with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the person of its representatives, will be strongly represented in this authoritative European organization, whose role and importance will only grow in European and not just in European affairs. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Consideration of amendments. We voted, we considered the 80 amendments, we went on to make the amendments work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u227	All right, let's go, let's go. 81st. Gabriel doesn't insist. Carmazine 83rd. 96th. Yeah, no one insists until 96? Yes. Hare, what's the correction? Microphone. 92nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u228	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I have an amendment number 92, which I propose to the subjects of the electoral process to count the authorized party person, the electoral entity. How do I justify my amendment? Because an authorized person is to be the sole subject of the electoral process, otherwise he will have no serious rights, especially in the matter of the prosecution of decisions or omissions. How did you settle this question in 102, in 106 articles, if you rejected my amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u229	Dear John Aleksandrovitch, there is an internal contradiction in your claim: a representative of someone else cannot be independent in his actions, since he is bound by the condition of representation. Therefore, an authorized party representative is authorized to act on behalf of a party but has no interest or right of its own. This is the same as the party head — whether the party head is the subject of the electoral process if the party itself is the subject. It's the same thing. Therefore, all rights of appeal on behalf of the party of the authorized person are. But only in her own interests and not in the interests of the party, of course she has no right to turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u230	Ivan Alexanderovich, do you insist? It's the Rabbit's microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u231	I'm talking about how these rights are regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u232	She's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u233	That's what you said if you said all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u234	I'm counting on it. I know you've read the law to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u235	Wait. Moreover, I even show you what articles you need: 102, 106 and so forth. And you explain to me what the norm is. And don't teach me what you're counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u236	Yuri Bogdanovich, please be strong for a long time. Ivan Aleksandrovich does not insist. 96. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u237	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention and ask for your support in this regard. We wrote in article 12, part one, adding a new paragraph six as follows: “Official observers from the public-Ukraine public organizations registered for the purpose of monitoring the legality of the electoral process.” Right now, the text you're giving is just from the party, the block, the subject of the election process. All right, there are no more observers. You remember how you, including yourself, defended the right of public organizations in the President’s election when we wanted clean, transparent, honest elections. What's changed now, Yuri Bogdanovich? I don't understand. Why aren't we involved? And I'm asking the people's deputies not to be deprived of their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u238	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Like the previous representative, I'm going to ask you to read the law as a whole. There is the right of public organizations to give observers to the elections. However, there is another matter. Whether to grant these observers the right of subjectivity in the electoral process or only the right of observation. That's the difference. The committee stood on the fact that it was enough to give them the right to observe. However, I will not deny it if the hall supports and gives them the right to be subject in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u239	Yes. Satisfied with the answer. Aren't we voting? Vote. The 96th Amendment of Carmazin votes. I'd like to make a statement. [[6:47:57]] For-46 Yes. 98. I don't insist. 100. 101 — Chernobyl. 100, 100 in Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u240	After 100 it's going to be 181, Adam Ivanovich, I only have. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that you are throwing up as a subject of a public organization. I think they'll tell you their thoughts later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u241	There are 36 articles of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u242	I know. You don't have to. So, article 13, part 3, please put it this way. The decisions of the electoral commissions, as well as the decisions of the public authorities and local self-government bodies relating to the election of deputies, are brought to the attention of the well - known citizens immediately after their adoption through the official electronic pages of these bodies on the Internet and the electronic media, and immediately in the printed media, and may be published in another way. The point is that the decisions that have been taken concerning the rights and freedoms of citizens should be as widely as possible brought to the citizens. I'm expanding what you're predicting in the law. I don't see why. It doesn't say "repeated" or "calculated" here, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u243	It's really rejected. And for the following reasons: First. Not all executive authorities or local self - government authorities are far away, but even more district commissions have websites on the Internet. If we make such a requirement in the law, they will have to provide funding to open and maintain these pages. It's different. No site, no matter what authority it is, has official status, so no such publication will have legal consequences. So writing it down doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u244	Don't you insist on voting? He insists. A hundred amendments by colleague Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:50:17]] For-55 Yes, the following amendments there are colleagues of Gorbachev, they. We've already voted them out. 111th, Carmazin. Yeah, sure, sure. Konovaluka, 119, does not insist. Bastard, 120s, doesn't insist. Bastard 121st. Yeah, 123rd, Gavrish doesn't insist. Pull side, 124th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u245	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! This amendment, like the 846th and 847th amendments, applies to polling stations. It is pointed out that there are small, medium and large, but we were all witnesses when there were very large polling stations during the election campaign. And in those very large polling stations, there were mass cases where people They just walked around and didn't vote because of the huge queues. So there's this proposal: in this rule, in this article, to make such a statement as very large polling stations with more than 2.5 thousand voters, in the 846th amendment, to provide suitable voting rooms, and in the 847th amendment, to anticipate and increase the number of voting booths. This amendment is designed solely for the purposes of making sure that our voters, those who vote, have the right conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u246	Dear colleague Dragnibok, I fully share your concern about the vast size of the plots and the lines that will be there. That's why the law proposes that the upper limit of the number of voters per district be set at 2.5 thousand so that very large polling stations are simply not in nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u247	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Then it's the same thing as 125. John the Rabbit, 128. Don't insist. Chernobyl, 129. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u248	You know, I'm not talking about this amendment, no, I don't insist. But I think we've entered a certain theater of absurdity, and we can see that all the amendments take 40-50-60 votes. We're going to deal with these amendments until there's no people left in the room and there's laws that, in principle, are a little bit better than the previous edition we're just not going to accept. And I would suggest, maybe it's quieting down, stopping at the most important amendments, and each of the authors knows them and vote in that case in general, after the most important ones. I'll agree to give it up now. Voting on my amendments, which I still consider appropriate, and which I would insist otherwise, if others refuse. If I don't, I'm going to leave about 160 amendments somewhere 15-16 for which I'm going to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u249	Yeah, okay. Then let's keep working. I think we are now. Kostinuk, 147. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment relates to part 3 of article 22, which deals with the elimination of all rules relating to the establishment of branches outside official representations and consulates, outside the borders of Ukraine. For that simple reason, outside Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, including electoral legislation, will not act and there will be no agreement with any countries unless these agreements are ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the power of the law. So I would like to remove all of these standards in connection with the formation of polling stations outside embassies, consulates, or Ukrainian territories outside Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u251	In principle, this view is possible and many countries around the world are observing it. Yet, I'll give you just one example: in Italy, there are only about 100,000 officially registered Italian authorities, workers, Ukrainian citizens. Yet there are only two representations. So then we're not just going to have a very large area, but we're going to have a vastly large area of 50,000 per district. I don't think 50,000 citizens will be able to vote in one district. The precedents for creating such areas were and they were working, and these results of the elections were recognized. So the hall has to decide here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u252	Please. Do You Vote or Do You Agree? Please, it's Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u253	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, please tell us, do you think that Ukraine's laws are in force outside Ukraine and outside official representations and consulates? This time. And secondly, I'd like you all to remember what people were protesting just under the fall C.V.C.K., when there was a known massacre, just protesting the creation of those areas outside Ukraine that were not controlled by observers and not controlled by voting in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u254	Thank you for reminding me of the October 23rd incident. So I want to remind you that it was about the formation of polling stations in the villages of the Chukot district, the coastal region, the Maddan region, Yakutia, the Amur region, etc., in the villages. It was against those gross forgeries, where hundreds of Ukrainian citizens were suddenly found and then protested. However, once again, I would like to emphasize that I will not insist on accepting our committee paper. I'll take it perfectly if the hall agrees with your version. And the laws work in different ways, in terms of territory, in their own way, and in terms of citizens, in their own way. And Ukrainian citizens are not limited to their rights outside Ukraine, but rather to the duty of the State to ensure that these rights are realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u255	Don't insist, that's how I figured it out. Yes. 100. Yuri Anatolyevich also makes life a little easier for us. One of them fits 181, please, Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u256	Carmazine. I agreed to give up most of the amendments, but where these are principles, and this is the principle of amendment, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to support it. Why? The parties, the constituencies of the electoral process, have the right to apply to district electoral committees. This should be taken into account in all the articles, but not only in this amendment. So far, only those who are currently in the current state of the Supreme Council on September 15, preceding the annual election, have their party factions. Will anyone tell me where the "Eda" Block that came here is now gone? So that's not really right -- that's inequality. They need to be able to protect those parties that are not represented in Parliament, and this will contribute to objectivity. I would ask Adam Ivanovich and your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u257	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! I think you remember well the 2004 election polls when we were forced to form committees of 50, 46,48. These committees were ineffective because of their extremely large numbers. I want to remind you that on March 26, Ukraine is registered, and the Minister of Justice will specify my number for more than 120 parties. And if all 120 parties go to the polls and apply your standard, we'll have to form a commission of 120. I don't think any election can be held by such committees. That is why it is suggested that we return to the standard that was already in force during the 2002 elections. That is where the standard was written. Those parties that enter parliament must have their own representatives, while the other parties must have their own representatives within the limits of the number of committees behind lots. This is the mechanism that is proposed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u258	Do you insist on voting? And we are voting for amendment 181 of the People's Deputy Karmazin. [[19:00:15]] Z-87 Amendment 192 on page 43 is mine, and I want to argue with it. I propose: to take the word “degree” when it comes to national language. “ Volume” and now “volume” have been replaced by “degree”. And the quantity and the degree, who will determine, and how will determine? Let's just leave it to "the language of the state". Because we're not going to do the exams, to what extent and in general, what is the degree of national language. Let us take this unnecessary word and leave “the rule of the state language”. Like, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u259	Adam Ivanovich, in principle, is quite possible. However, it was just that norm that existed all the time, just “restraint” and unfortunately we had cases during the election when we actually had to change the commission's secretary. It's like a person speaks English, and he understands, and he can't write a document in Ukrainian. And it's about the commission's business, and it's serious stuff, and they can end up with criminal persecution. That is why it was proposed to write “the amount that testifies to the candidate” and no examinations are required. We trust those who apply, and they will not do themselves any harm. So if they say they own enough to run a business, we'll believe them. And if he doesn't have that kind of power, then why go to the secretariat?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u260	The point is, what he's going to write is, he's still writing "the power of the state language." He does not write “five percent or twenty percent,” but he writes in national language. And that gives us reason to say that, yes, he speaks the national language. Let's agree, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u261	Whatever it is, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u262	Let's agree. Yes. Agreed. Yes, the following adjustments. Next, page 65, page 65. This is the 275th amendment of mine. No, me, the thing is, when you were gone, they agreed who insisted. If you insist, please tell me. Here, Yuri Bogdanovich and respected colleagues, it is about us being determined in principle. The point is that we are now introducing to electoral legislation the rules that relate to allowing us to observe the election of representatives of public organizations. If I'm not mistaken, there are more than one and a half thousand public organizations registered at the central level. I mean, you can imagine that at the polling station where 200 voters will come from about a thousand and a half social organizations. I understand the Council of Europe and we have been approached. We have often discussed that, on the one hand, whatever it may be, we should allow it, but how to settle it. And what's more, you understand, or write in another place -- no more than three representatives, from each organization or from all one and a half thousand. So this right over here, let's figure it out with you. I propose to narrow down democracy and remove the standards that apply to observers from public organizations. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u263	Adam Ivanovich and respected colleagues, the problem of public observers has long been hanging in Ukraine and every recommendation of the Bureau for Democratic Rights and Elections of the Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe reminds us of an unresolved problem that does not meet international standards. On the other hand, I understand perfectly what you said, and I know this number of social organizations. That's why the bill proposes that only public organizations have the right to submit their observers, which record observations on the electoral process, which are registered more than two years ago, and which have been authorised by the Central Electoral Commission. And of all those organizations that could be about a tenth and a half in Ukraine, at the same time there could be no more than three observers on the site, not one and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u264	Dear colleagues, I'm likely to contact the Minister of Justice with your permission. If he confirms that there are really one and a half dozen of them, then let's give the Council of Europe the satisfaction. But if they're one and a half thousand. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u265	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Let me first of all speak in principle about this amendment, because I really think that in order to preserve absolute democracy, the transparency of our electoral process, we have to allow the representatives of society, and they, according to the law, are to unite citizens, to be observers in the electoral process. I point out that the bill, which is proposed to your mind, makes a difference between the subjectivity of the electoral process and the ability to observe the electoral process. This is very important in the legal dimension of the difference made by the authors of this project. Now, instead, I agree that there may indeed be a problem with the number of citizens who are currently registered in Ukraine who could claim to be an observer of the electoral process. In order to get rid of this problem, allow the national deputies of Ukraine and Adama Ivanovich, I will ask your indulgence in this case to propose an amendment to the amendment, namely: to the amendment proposed, to add such words as “in the statutes of which such activity is envisaged”. And then the problem falls away because there are really very few such associations of citizens where such activity is foreseen. If that's what this is supposed to be, because I haven't noticed anything at first sight, it seems to me that this amendment can be taken into account if it's exactly what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u266	I believe that, fellow believers, we will believe the authority of those who say that there will be few. So if that's true, let's actually have a problem. The Council of Europe is always insisting on it, so I agree with the argument and take it off. And please, I have an amendment on page 107. Please, Matthew is. What is the correction? 73rd? Page 83, 156. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u267	Thank you. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that in the current law, which is still in force today, it was the norm that members of the electoral commission, in carrying out their duties, were prohibited from approving for or against the party and so forth. I emphasize that when he fulfills his duties, that is, when he works directly on a commission or commission. What do the authors propose? They just write it down: over the course of their powers, it's forbidden to agitate. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to have a total sleaze on the election boards? And at home, and in the company of friends he knows what he cannot say “for” or “against”? That's not true. I think I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u268	I mean, to his wife at night, if he's a member of the commission, he has no right to say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u269	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't want anyone to think there might be a bug in our country in the bed where you're staying. And I'm convinced that the way out of that beetle is by no means going to be in the Central or District Electoral Commission. So there's no problem with that. Yet, in fact, friends, there is another problem. Indeed, the wording, as the colleague of Matthew suggests, was in valid laws, including the election of the President. So if anyone doesn't remember, I'll remind you that both the Central Electoral Commission and then the Supreme Court of Ukraine have qualified this rule in a sense that since the appointment and until the end of the commission's mandate, he can't advertise. Of those two dozen members of the commission in your formulation, whose membership has been revoked, the representative of the Communist Party was the first to fall. And so I suggest that there are no variations, your formulation is already clear on how they're going to interpret, you're not going to be saved by your formulation, you're not going to be allowed to object all the time, because this position already has a precedent, a decision of the Supreme Court, and this is always going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u270	Dear colleagues! Let's think about it again. At home? If I'm not mistaken, 230,000 polling stations, not 32,000, to 32,000 polling stations. Imagine, every party that sends these 30,000 people to the polling station, it deprives them of the right to do any kind of acknowledgmental work. No, we have a lot of you. In short, I put to the vote the amendment of Matthew 356. Vote. [[19:11:15]] For-96 Not accepted. Simonenko, the microphone. And the hare, please, what are your adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u271	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, we are trying to improve the law today. What's our problem? The elections are over, and we are also starting to do the same, with a view to correcting mistakes. The next election is over, and we're doing the same law again. Why? Because, unfortunately, those who most urge today to amend this law most of all create preconditions for violating it, and capital costs everything. But in this case, I'm concerned that unfortunately, but it was already done when exactly like that there were 2.5 million veterans who were denied the right to vote. This will be an additional article of pressure on those taking part in the electoral process. And if he is in the process of carrying out his duties, it is understandable, and when he has said a word in the household, then. appears for some reason or other, and human rights are being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u272	Yes. Please, it's the Rabbit's microphone. Now he's going to tell us what the correction is. John the Rabbit will call his amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u273	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Amendment to Article 28, Part 4. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u274	Ivan Alexandrovich, you name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u275	Page and Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u276	You name the page and what the correction is, because it's hard to look for part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u277	Page 50, Amendment 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u278	Page 50, Amendment 226. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u279	I propose to exclude from the 4th part of the sentence “on behalf of the party, the filing block introduces a registered district, city or high level organization of the party, organization and party joining the bloc, because it contradicts the 5th part where it refers to the fact that such submission is carried out by an authorized party person. Although it's written "out of the party," we actually have 2 different subjects. It's about the centers, and this is about the 5th part of the party as a whole. So I think we need to rule out this sentence and then it's going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u280	Dear John Alexanderovich, don't break down in the open door. After all, your amendment is partially taken into account and is actually granted to an authorized person, just as you wanted. Please read carefully. Yes, the wrong word “refused” is written, but the second sentence is quite different and now there is an authorized person. So read the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u281	Yes, Ivan Alexandrovich insists on voting. Oh, no? Yes. Please. Yes. Next amendment. Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u282	My next amendment is page 80, it's part. Wait, wait, one second. It's the '80s, isn't it? This is part 11 of article 35. Here, this article deals with determining the order of mandatory copies of the electoral commission’s rulings, which the electorate’s subjects might be able to challenge in due course. The physical absence of certified copies in cases often deprives us of the opportunity to sue the electoral commission in due course. So I suggest that the copy be verified by the head or alternate and the secretary of the election committee and sealed by seal and given immediately to the electorate concerned, or to the candidate for the deputy to the authorized person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u283	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, this amendment you're talking about is counted, but it's not a 347th amendment, it's a completely different one. I repeat, it's not the 347th in terms of content. According to the contents, your amendment is taken into account, but it is not in this place. Search.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u284	Don't you insist on voting, Ivan Alexandrovich? Don't insist. Yeah, what's the next correction? Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u285	Again, it's about. Article 35.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u286	You tell us the page.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u287	Well, the same article, page 80. This is about adding part 11 of the article with the words: “The acts and protocols of the electoral commission are legitimate and must be counted in cases defined by this law if they are signed without notice by most members of the commission.” and so on. Or today we don't say when they're legitimate, and we're going to have to sign three terms or four, and on the other hand they're going to sign three or four terms. Go to court and then prove what is the legitimate protocol. So I have to write very clearly in this case, because I came across this practice when the two protocols showed me, the seals were, the secretaries were, but there were five members, and there was a majority. That's it. Why not clarify?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u288	Ivan Aleksandrovich, when you made such a complaint to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, you then complained, not about the protocol, but about the commission's work on its composition and it was signed by you personally. And that was the position taken by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Once again, I remind him that his decision has a status as a judge, that is, it must be applied. This is no doubt a document. But this is a document that testifies to certain actions, and this is not a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u289	Yeah, I can see they're insisting. I'm voting on the 347th amendment of John the Rabbit. Please vote. [[19:17:48]] Z-70. Yes, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, do you still have any rights to this book? You don't? Please, it's the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u290	I want to open page 122. On page 122, this is article 42, part 6, and part 5. This is what this is about. The point is that in this case, someone who is not on the list can charge these actions not even the day before the election, but in three days, in five days. Thus, the situation is that a person who does not fall into the list will be deprived of the opportunity to vote. And we have practice, and that's why I insist on going back, well, actually, to previous practice, or we're going to deprive a lot of people of the right to vote. On the other hand, we will have great dissatisfaction and on the same day you will see what will be done on the district committees when such people are not allowed to vote. Five days is a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u291	Dear Ivane Alexandrovich, you propose to return to the practice of making a list of voters involved in the 2004 elections. Did I get you right? I mean, to those elections where there were about two million dead souls on the voters' lists. In order not to allow this to happen, the bill suggests that the process of making electoral lists should begin, not with the start of the electoral process, but with effect from 1 August of this year. And so that these lists are public and not during the electoral process, but in October they were given to representatives of all the parties represented by factions in the Supreme Council. And twice, in 25 days and 7 days before the election day, it's reported that they're on the voter list. However, so as not to involve voters in voter lists on the day of the vote, for such schemes are actually for millions of voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u292	Dear colleagues, I am voting 484 votes against John Alexander the Hare. Please be supportive. The vote is fair. [[19:20:28]] For 121 Then, while Ivan Alexanderovich is preparing, I'm a little bit back on your attention, to page 107, and to page 108. Here's the bill by Yuri Bogdanovich on what's the point, think about what, you and I in all the laws, I think we've been absolutely correct in writing that lists are signed by more or less independent people, heads of district councils. It suggests that these lists be signed by the heads of the district government. On whom do they depend, on whom are they subordinated? That's why I'm asking you to vote. Please understand the nuance?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u293	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I understand your nuance and you abuse the chairman's right to question what is generally accepted. And now I have to take some time away from you, dear friends. So at first we wanted the voters' lists to be drawn up in advance by the district councils and we worked on this mechanism. Yet they do not have executive bodies today, and they cannot transfer funds from the state budget to make these lists. That is why it is suggested that the working groups on the compilation of lists be formed in the mesquiconoms and administrative paradises. However, in order to remove entirely fair fears, I am dividing them completely, which is why it is proposed that from August 1st or September 1st, there should be groups of controls composed of representatives of all parliamentary factions, and that these groups of controls should be given a list of voters before they are signed, and that they should be able to be publicly checked by each electorate, and that these lists will be signed until February of next year. Although they fall into the hands of control groups in October. We can hand it over to the district councils, but then they'll make these lists at the expense of the district budgets, not at the expense of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u294	Dear colleagues! I, on your permission, refuse to accuse the reporter that I'm abusing, I'm not abusing, I, like every national MP, have the right to express my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u295	Adam Ivanovich! I will also try to exercise my right and question your considered offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u296	You can question, I'm voting for confirmation -- this is the second reading, this is the Cabinet of Ministers we can listen to, we can not listen. I'll give you my word. The point is, Your Honor, I'm about to, you prepare, please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u297	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you very much to think about the concept that this bill contains. It has two components: one term refers to the upper limit, the upper limit on the members of the election committees, so that the efficiency of these committees can really be ensured. This is a less important problem. The second problem that this bill is trying to solve, and I think it's quite successful -- it's a list-making issue, and it's proposed to start this process in August of this year. Yet, in order for the Central Election Commission to take advantage of this possibility provided for in this Law. The executive, not the local self-government, must provide the budget for the provision of this particular ingredient, this bill. In case this rule doesn't go away, if we don't provide this process with executive power, in the form that it's proposed. So in August it starts, in October the first decisions and so on and so forth until February, when the corresponding list is attached by the signature of the head of the respective government. In case we don't, we can throw this whole bill into the basket. Because no local government will find a proper budget allocation in the local budgets in order to ensure that this is the most important part of the bill. So if, in fact, there will be an urge by Adam Ivanovich to vote on this norm, I would ask that you consider exactly what I'm talking about. Because if it does, I am very afraid that the veto bill will be imposed on this bill because the bill is not properly budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u298	Dear colleagues, the minister has explained his position and, I think, the veto, because we're getting out of control, the President won't impose, I'm sure. Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u299	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like, first of all, to address the Minister and not to frighten the President's veto at such a responsible time, and the Law that we accept about elections. And, by the way, it's completely different what you're suggesting, Mr. Secretary. In some areas, you suggest that the lists of voters be made up by representative authorities, city councils, and a miscicon, and in other areas by executive authorities in rural areas. There is absolutely no logic in what is written here, and so we agree with Adam Ivanovich's proposal, and we determine that it is for the representative authorities to entrust this responsible, responsible area of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u300	Yuri Bogdanovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u301	Dear colleagues, since this is the intention to take it to the district government, then I would like to make such a compromise. Then let us give the right to sign to the heads of rural, rural, city councils. Once again, the district council today has no executive structures. It is unable to answer for these things, so let them be responsible for rural, rural, city councils and their executive bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u302	Yes, please, Yuri Bogdanovich, tell me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u303	Once again, as the room supports mistrust in district government administrations, I propose compromises — district councils are unable to provide these processes because they do not have executive bodies. So I propose that the right to sign lists be given to the heads of rural, rural, urban councils. They have executive organs. They're able to control these processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u304	Valerius Suškević, microphone, please. Dear colleagues, put your hands down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u305	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, I have a request, Adam Ivanovich, we now have in bed Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, who can say his word. For some reason, we do not approach him in situations where he may say the appropriate professional explanation. I'm asking him to say it for that matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u306	Thank you, Your Honor. We all appreciate Jaroslav Vasilovich very much, but in this case he's going to act as a kind of interested person, so let's make our own determination, because clearly, everyone wants a law that's convenient to whoever he's writing for. So, please don't be here. Yes, sign up, please, for three minutes, so no one will be offended by me, so it's fair. Well, you see, not everyone's agreed, hands up, so there's some other argument. Yes, please, Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u307	Please pass the word Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u308	Here's the mic, Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u309	Tkachenko, National Movement of Ukraine, Yushchenka Block faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We know very well with you that in some places we have local self-government authorities, let's say, can quietly block any question, not just collecting signatures, not just voter lists, but many others. And they're not going to be responsible for this, so I think this is the optimal option that's now being proposed, which is to assign funding through the heads of the government, the district administrations, but the signatures of the heads of the local government are the most acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u310	Alexander Sergiyovich, anyone who violates the law, is responsible, including the council. Yes, please, Eshchenka. It's nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u311	Fucking Communist faction. The Communist faction supports the adoption of this law and will vote in favour of this law. Position, position. Position, yes. And the main thing in this situation is that it is right that the voters' lists will be signed by the heads of the country. The village, the village, and the city. And the fact that the district administrations know what their position is and how they can falsify these lists, we've already seen it in the presidential election in 2004. That is why we support this position in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u312	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u313	Dear colleagues, I say this more for the record, for the transcript. Why? Because Yuri Bogdanovich agrees. We must, and I am here in solidarity, give the right to form lists of local self-government. And that's why I'm asking them to sing for the record to add “both the presidents or the heads of the district in the council”, and that's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u314	Hello, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u315	Please pass on the word to Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u316	Mikola Oneschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u317	Mikola Onischuk, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Dear friends, it seems that we got a little confused when we started discussing this, because elections and voters don't live in the area -- they only live in the neighborhood. So when it came to district government, we confused sin with the righteous. Therefore, the suggestion that such lists should be certified only by the head of the council, whether city or village, is the only possible. And the district state administrations are just out of the question. Thank you for your attention and for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u318	Dear colleagues, be careful! I suggest that we agree, I see that there is no objection, if you don't mind, let's agree that everywhere, throughout the text of the law, where this language is concerned, we will put it in the form that the reporter suggested: heads of rural, rural, city councils and district councils in the city. Do we have a deal? No one's denying it? Then we made a deal. We don't vote. It's clear. Yes, please, edits. John the Rabbit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u319	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I suggest we go back to that article. [[It's 35th, 42nd, I'm sorry.]] It's about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u320	Page, please, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u321	Page 122. What are we talking about? I had previously made an amendment to allow people to sue or file electoral lists later than three days before the election. It's been rejected. I now propose that such an opportunity be offered through the courts. Because if you do not, on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, no one will be able to list themselves as voters, and you remember that in these elections, 130,000 people were reinstated because of the trial. So my suggestion is that we should give a person an illegal charge, say, the right to remove him from the lists on election day and Saturday and Friday. Otherwise we'll just create danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u322	So Ivan Alexanderovich insists that we vote 485th. Please vote. We'll support the Hare. [[19:34:58]] For 177 Please, it's the Rabbit's microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u323	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I propose to return to the article, now that it is a matter of reparation or damage to the members of the commission. I mean transport. Here I was a confidant in these rural elections. And I know how much these people spent on getting to that territorial or district commission when there were a few population points. In accordance with this law, they will be compensated for their departure. But all these extra expenses, when they're one day, two, three pre-planned on this committee, no one's going to compensate. So I'd like to write this down so that these people have the opportunity to compensate for the losses they're going to suffer for their work on these committees. We simply need to understand how much these people invest in their health and their resources to secure the right of citizens to choose their own authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u324	Yes, Ivan Alexanderovich insists. Once again, emphasize what kind of amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u325	I can answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u326	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u327	Dear colleagues, this is about fantastic sums. After all, it is a matter of compensation even when a person goes to a meeting of a committee. No budget can handle that kind of money. So, I'm asking you very much, let's take an understanding of what we've recorded to compensate for discharges when, at the commission's commission, a person goes elsewhere. Yet when she's driving around the city or when she's riding in her needs, let's not do that. We met some factions, supporting them with the idea of not restricting the membership of the commission to living in a certain district. Then we will continue to travel throughout Ukraine from Ukraine's budget to return. It'll be very expensive. Believe me, it's not real.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u328	Yes. Let's support the Hare again. Correction on page 82, 354. Please vote. [[19:37:34]] For-119 Not accepted. Yes. None. Yes, please, the microphone of Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u329	I ask you to pay attention to Amendment 468 on page 118. It refers to the voting of members of the district committees. I insist by my amendment that the members of the electoral boards, whether they have a hard-on, or whether they are in the same place, be able to vote within their district committee. We recall the previous parliamentary elections in 2002 with those lines and what was happening when the commission members tried to break out somewhere to vote in other areas scattered around the city, at a populated location. It's a difficult situation. They say there's some imbalances on the balance sheet then. I've got a further amendment there, if this were to go through, then given this, we can take these problems down as an extra graph in the protocol. And, Adam Ivanovich, may simply not be drawn to humans, Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich, maybe I'm just going to vote now, and I'm going to vote on my next three revisions, and then there's going to be another hundred or more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u330	Yeah, yeah. Okay. Yes, please, the argument is in the reporter, Yuri Bogdanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u331	I have reason to believe that any movement from the district to the district without sufficient grounds creates conditions for a double vote, both in a new place and in an old place. And knowing how widely this mechanism is being applied, we have tried to establish in this Law a maximum of mechanisms that do not allow it. What Cranville’s colleague is proposing is one of those lazinesses that can be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u332	Yes, I'm betting on a vote of 468, Taras Blackwall. Please vote. [[19:39:44]] For-58 Please, it's Chernobyl's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u333	I'd like you to pay attention to 527th on 139th page. The proposed regulation states that the size of the salary of a member of the electoral commission who is exempt from duty at the principal’s place of employment cannot be lower than that of the head office. We have, with members of the commission, including those who have been released, sometimes there are enough people with good legal education, there's banking, there's others where the salaries of $600 to $700 are officially paid in dollars, not in bracelets, there's a transfer in bracelets. I'm proposing that they be unified even if they're paid for the city that the CFC is going to offer, there's big, small, medium-sized district commissions both there, and general and special. And as a result, we're in the process of unifying. We may have a situation where the secretary then has to pay 3,000-4,000 dollars, and the head of the Commission will have 200-300 dollars. Well, you know, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u334	I want to, I want to remind you of that. That we have already recorded the standard by which the members of the Commission are compensated for the damage they are causing in connection with the activities of the Commission. If a person is paid a reduced salary as a result of the commission’s transition to work, that is exactly what the cost will be. Nevertheless, the budget will compensate for these damages, according to the Law. So I don't see a fundamental difference. Unless we want to scare all the qualified people away from working in the Commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u335	Yes, I'm voting on Taras Blackwall's proposal. It's 587th, not 527th. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:41:46]] For-42 Yeah, another one of the blacksmiths.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u336	Now I'm talking about two more revisions -- 576, 579. In 576 it is suggested that the name of the block should not be used in the names of persons who are not members of the electoral list or in the names of historical persons if the name of the historical person does not include at least one party that is a member of that electoral bloc. Otherwise there'll be a sea of speculation. And so 579 just comes directly out of this 576.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u337	Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u338	I'm going to give an example that goes against this standard: the Lenin Communist Youth Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u339	She's not a party, and she's not going to take part in the election. Yes, dear colleagues, I think, and here is a colleague of Cranville's quite right point made. Let's support him. Vote. [[19:43:07]] For 206 The factions. “Our Ukraine” – 6. Communists are 49. “Ukraine” – 37. The People's Party is 29. Block Timoshenko – 6. The Socialists are 6. Ukrainian People's Party is 20. Social Democrats - 10. “The only Ukraine” – 8. “Democratic Ukraine” – 19. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 9. “Deminicatives” is 0. Postfaction is 7. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Please vote. [[19:43:52]] For 263 We're back. 263. Now I'm voting 576 and 579 Tarasa Blackwall. Please vote. [[19:44:17]] For 257 Copy that. Please, Matthew Valentine, then Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u340	Adam Ivanovich, this is page 249-250, this is article 83, “The order of the voting organisation outside the voting room”. My amendment to 891. Think of it, Your Honor, in the proposed wording, such as the position set out. An elector who temporarily does not know and move on his own, etc., submits an application for a vote specifying the place of residence, along with a document added to it that testifies to the fact that the electorate is insignificant to use himself. Think about what document an 89-90-year-old voter can give to do this in order to fulfill his civic duty. So we need to take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u341	Dear colleague Matthews, I'm sorry that you're arguing that it doesn't really conflict with the text of the law. Notice, this is about individuals who are temporarily unable to move on their own. And about those who are constantly, as you call them, 89 years of age are not able to move, and they are still in the early stages of making general electoral lists. And they're not required to do anything. It is the language of those who are lying at home and that it really shows that he has a high fever or has a broken leg. Because we know how sick people were voted in the central square of the city. So once again, even my tough opponents of Social Democrats have publicly acknowledged that this standard is well written. Believe me, there's no problem here with what you're talking about. We also want the elderly, the disabled, to have the opportunity to vote, so there will be no problem for them. In addition, they do not personally submit to the branch office, and they are sent by mail or through other persons. It's been a long time. Once again, the old man doesn't need to file any papers for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u342	Dear colleagues! You see, Yuri Bogdanovich correctly explains, but if everyone were such literate members of the commission as Yuri Bogdanovich, they would understand that norm, and a member of the commission would understand that. A sick person is lying there, unable to move; he must call someone to himself to testify to the fact that he is sick and does not walk. Who's coming? And how she'll call if she doesn't have a phone and she can't walk. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u343	Adam Ivanovich, I repeat, if there is a chronically paralyzed person or, let's say, a legless invalid, or a 90-year-old with Parkinson's disease, she doesn't need any documents to confirm her right to vote at home. It's about the young people who have the lines to go to the precinct, and what statements they're making, please come to me. And then he feeds the chickens and votes in the box.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u344	Let's put to the vote 891 of the people's deputies, Matthew, please vote. [[19:48:18]] For 185 The decision is not supported. Yes, please, Rabbit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u345	John the Rabbit faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to thank those deputies who supported my amendments, and I think they were very principled, and we'll see for the results of the elections that there was great relevance to their acceptance. But I don't see the possibility of making the adjustments that I still have here on four sheets. So I'm taking down all these voting amendments and I'm staying with my mind. I want us to save time and adopt this Law faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u346	Thank you, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, please, imitate the courageous and heroic appeal of John Alexanderovich. Please, Slippery microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u347	Oleg Tajnibok, Head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, page 159, article 56. In fact, I would like to urge you to understand that we are actually creating a normative act by which we will elect a new Parliament, a new Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, in article 56, “The procedure for the nomination of candidates for seats”, I propose the following rule: “In the electoral list of candidates for members from parties and blocs, a proportional, national representation of candidates for seats is ensured, according to the national composition of the population of Ukraine, as determined by the results of the last nationwide census.” This rule protects the Ukrainian population, since according to the U.S. Census, 78 percent are Ukrainian. So the MPs in parliament should be at least 78 percent. By the way, this rule does not violate the rights of national minorities at all, but rather it does. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u348	Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u349	I would like to ask those who propose to determine the nationality of each person, or do they remember the role of the sad “fifth count” in Soviet times?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u350	And how do you count if the passport doesn't have this graph anymore? Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on Oleg Pullibok's amendment. [[19:51:09]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Also, please, the Tygniboka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u351	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have three amendments. The next amendment to 587 refers to what is to be recorded in the convention report. It's the same thing as the 56th article. So I propose, and I think, that the return rate of the count in the passport “nationality” is the norm only of time and sooner or later such an item in the passport of a citizen of Ukraine will be returned and according to the convention protocol should be noted – information about candidates in the national MPs except citizenship, party, year of birth, as well as the nationality of candidates in the deputy. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u352	Well, the argument is the same. I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:52:25]] For-68 You're picking up pace. Please, third revision. Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u353	The third right is 595th. Hopefully, the pace will be maintained and this amendment will finally pass. Article 57 is the conditions for the registration of candidates. And there, too, what should be noted? And nationality, and knowledge of national language. Society, there's nothing I can understand, why don't we support such understandable things? How could that be? If a member of the district commission, we voted with you, bound to know the national language, and a candidate should not know the national language. Well, that's funny. This is the Ukrainian National Parliament. In the national parliament, the MPs representing the population should speak the national language, the Ukrainian language. Society, but let us not make the whole world laugh by such standards. Where did you see them not speaking French in the French Parliament, or in British - English? Please support this standard with amendment 595.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u354	Dear colleague Dragnibok, if you file an application to the Supreme Council Rules for Russian-language speeches to be accompanied by a translation, an honest word, I support it. However, I would hate for us to learn the laws of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u355	Dear colleagues, we will now vote, just a little clarification: not the Ukrainian National Parliament, but the National Parliament of Ukraine. That'll be more accurate. I'm voting for Oleg Pullibok's amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:54:30]] For-98 If you had any modifications, you'd really be somewhere. The last one. Please, let's have another Tagnibok microphone, then Vladimir Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u356	Last update. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Colleagues, this is the same article, 600 revisions, but it refers to documents to be submitted to the Central Election Commission. Similarly, a perfectly logical norm, I propose to make such an addition, second paragraph: the documents defined in the first part of this article are given exclusively in the national language. [[and the first part lists all the documents that are to be submitted to the CBC]] That's the right thing to do. Well, you can imagine if the Central Electoral Commission started to have documents in different languages. These are incomprehensible and illogical things. Please, given the pace you support my amendments, vote for this 600 amendment. Documents should be submitted exclusively in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u357	Dear Mr. Tuggnibok, I want to bring to your attention that since the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concerning the interpretation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that is exactly what it is, and all documents of the State authorities are given in the language of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u358	We're voting for 600 pull-offs. I'd like to make a statement. [[19:56:24]] For-136 Yes, please, Vladimir Hare, microphone. Vladimir Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u359	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, there's a request: to be careful about the 61st article, part 5 that we've made in addition. We don't seem to have any suspicions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u360	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please, page and edit. And they'll be more oriented.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u361	No. 625th Amendment on page 172. This is about what we ask that the body of the law be amended, that the party or the bloc may not be removed from registration, and only the Supreme Court of Ukraine or, as we are already saying, the administrative court, only by the submission of the Central Electoral Commission, as well as in the body of the “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” Act. I just approached the head of the C.V.K. and consulted with the minister of justice. It admits that there is such a problem. And the head of the CEC does not deny that such an amendment is in the body of the law. I'd like to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u362	Dear colleague, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the only case that is allowed to take an orderly decision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine is the cancellation of the candidate's registration as Head of State. In all other cases, the court is not authorized to order decisions; it can only deal with disputes. That is why it is proposed that the Central Election Commission should take the decision, but this decision can be peacefully brought before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. There's no problem with the charges. The charges stop the decision to cancel the registration, and the Supreme Court will still say the last word. However, let us not give the court its own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u363	Please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u364	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Jury Bogdanovich is absolutely right that the only case envisaged by legislation where the Supreme Court of Ukraine can take such a decision relates to the removal of a candidate from the presidential registration. The submission that the Central Election Commission may make to the Supreme Court or to any other court should be documented. This document must be of a legal nature. The legal nature of such a document may be either a complaint or a lawsuit, if that is the case with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Therefore, the submission could hardly be directed by the Central Electoral Commission in connection with this procedural problem. By saying "a" instead, I want to say "b" immediately. I understand the concern of the opposition people's deputies who, in my opinion, have reason to suspect that certain administrative methods may be used to, for example, take decisions at the level of the Central Electoral Commission not to remove one or two candidates from the national parliaments, but even dozens will be removed from the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which will in turn provoke or force the respective party or bloc to file so many complaints on the actions of the Central Electoral Commission to the Supreme Court or to the Supreme Administrative Court. However, recognizing that the problem exists, the order of its solution, as proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy Zazem, is not appropriate. That's why it's dry. I'd like to ask you, however, to support this law as it is being discussed with you right now, to remove this problem. In turn, the Ministry of Justice gives you the word that by September of the month we will try to find an opportunity to create such objective conditions for the work of the Central Electoral Commission, particularly with regard to such issues, so that you, especially in opposition deputies, do not have certain suspicions about the use of administrative resources in such matters. So I don't have the ability right now on my knee, as they say, to offer a way out of this situation. Instead, I also admit that, as proposed by the national parliament of the Hare, unfortunately, it cannot be activated because the submission itself cannot be directed because it will not have a proper legal character. So I asked that you still understand this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u365	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u366	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u367	With the permission of the presiding officer, I would like once again to draw attention to the speciality of the offer of a fellow Hare. It's not just about canceling the registration. The point is that the Supreme Court should decide on the issue of refusal of registration, which even in presidential elections the Supreme Court did not decide. The Central Election Commission may have refused to register. So we really want the Supreme Court to check if all the documents are properly made or if all the formal requirements are met. Well, believe me, it's not a task for the Supreme Court, it's a mission for the Central Electoral Commission. So let's agree that the Central Election Commission makes such decisions about refusal of registration, but it can be charged to the Supreme Court. Among other things, if you look closely, the law does not provide for the cancellation of the party’s registration as a sanction for the violation, but only because of the impossibility of continuing the pre-election campaign. Therefore, there is no penalty in the form of cancellation of registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u368	Now, now, dear colleagues. I'd just like to be more careful with the kind of words: dry leftovers and so on, because Suhi might be asking for the lines then. Yes. Please, what about the Hare? We agreed that the head of the CD was actively involved in our meeting in silence. Yes. I can see the hands. Please sign up. Three minutes with the motive of the question. Please, Loboda. Behind him is Bysarov. There's Loboda. Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u369	Please pass the word Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u370	Vladimir Yeshchenka, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u371	This is the Communist faction. I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, yet speeding up the matter. Because we're repeating ourselves on separate issues already. And people's deputies come forward, and that means they're back to making proposals that have already been considered. That's why I'm asking you to speed up the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u372	I'm listening to you, but the proposal we're considering is the first time. Please, Bysarov, follow him to Teeth. Teeth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u373	Hello. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Zubov Valentin Sergeyevich, Block of Julius Timoshenko. All-Ukrainian Motherland Association. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, may I frankly say that the project that today advocates the people's MP Klukkowski is one of the most professional, prepared bills that we have been considering recently. I can't afford, of course, a line to the Minister of Justice. When the Minister of Justice makes any comments on the bill, he should know that he has a very specific situation today in the executive system. And that is not a secret, but I represent the party that has been on the side of the “orange” revolution, but I have very serious doubts that the Minister of Justice may give some reasoned, reasoned, information on the comments of the bill. Today's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u374	Dear colleagues, we work so gently, well, let's do it anyway, I say, let's end the day peacefully. Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u375	George Manchulenko, 203rd constituency, Cherniewec district, Ukrainian People's Party faction. Dear Chief, Honourable Reporter, Honorary Fellows, I think we should stop at the consideration of those amendments that may be burdensome and more technical amendments, and I would like to take them off the list of colleagues who have made them first so that we do not delay the consideration of this issue with regard to the discussion on the powers of the CSF or the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I believe that the CEC may have this right to cancel the registration of a block or a party. And the Supreme Court has the right to consider a complaint that will be filed on behalf of the subject and that will be perfectly normal and logical. If the Supreme Court sees that the CEVC has gone beyond the law, it will overturn that decision and everything will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u376	Yes, dear fellows, we've only just talked for three minutes with motive. I'm sorry. The Legal Committee, something Klukkowski protects you, you will support him. Oneschuk's microphone, please. Turn on the Mikoli Oneschuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u377	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, Yuri Bogdanovich! We can support your position that the CEC has the right to make a decision that can be charged in the event of a violation of rights. But, Yuri Bogdanovich, according to the new Administrative and Procedural Code, which we voted yesterday, the charges now do not automatically end the decision. Therefore, it is very important for us to complement here the position that the accusation of the decision of the CEVC to withdraw from the Supreme Court ceases this decision. So we give the power of automation in this context, then it's going to be a certain level of protection of the object's interest in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u378	I can fully support this position and let's stenographically record if there is a general agreement and, in particular, the author of the amendment that the decision of the CEVC to cancel the registration does not enter into force until the time limit of the complaint is reached, or until the Supreme Court, if the complaint is, takes a decision. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u379	Yes, please, Rabbit Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u380	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Perhaps we can now accept such an offer from colleague Onichuk because it was precisely what we had in mind. If the CEC decides to withdraw from the registration, then the status of, say, the party and the block, and can it engage in propaganda and so on, if it's during the election campaign? Therefore, Onechuk’s proposal can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u381	Roman Mikhailovich, but literally two sentences.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u382	Adam Ivanovich, I can agree with this formulation. In any case, this would require an amendment to the Code of Administrative Justice, as this rule should be provided for in order to put an end to the act, the relevant act adopted by the CEC, not in this law. This is not the subject of this law. So I'm really asking you to change this norm and leave us with the opportunity to change these positions in the Code of Administrative Justice, where these issues should be settled. It is not a matter of the substance of this law, it is a matter of the process and it must be included in the Code of Administrative Judiciality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u383	Dear colleagues, communication is over. I want to tell you the opinion of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, we have consulted with him, and I speak with her. He suggests, in terms of the CTC and personally, I think he's wise to suggest, he says, let's write down that the parties are being taken down by the Supreme Court, and let the individual candidate take down the CBC. Yes, let's go along with Onechuk's proposal, supported by a profile committee. Please vote. Vote. [[20:10:58]] For 338 Thank you. Who else among the national deputies insists that his corrections are not taken into account? Then I'm with your permission, please start 3 books of 867. On the one hand, I can agree that it is not counted, but here is a “but” here it is written that the elector who voted does not have the right to reenter the voting room. It's kind of a really, really good readjustment, but let's think about the reality of doing it, that we don't, we don't put the fingerprint that I've already voted on. I mean, how can I determine whether I voted or not, and who's going to check it out, and why I might not be allowed to do it again is one moment. One second. In this law, we are just, democratically, predicting the norm if the elector who cannot vote on his own has the right to invite the person who does it for him. A member of the commission can't do that. I mean, if he invites me, who's already voted let's go in again and you vote for me, because I'm blind or my hand can't write how to do that? So I think it's a non-life norm, even though it's fair, but to check not to let it go to the polling station for the second time is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u384	Adam Ivanovich, let's agree to this standard peacefully and I'll tell you why. First of all, of course, no one's going to get shot for going to the polls the second time. However, in cases where this is revealed, there is a legal basis for bringing a person out of the office so that he does not interfere. That's why we need this standard. On the other hand, the second factor you're talking about can't be established, because by law and, traditionally, you can invite anyone who's in the area at that time, not from the streets. And observers are observers of their own status.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u385	That was the exchange of thoughts. I am voting on Martinyuk's amendment to remove the sentence: “The elector who voted does not have the right to re-enter the voting room”, please vote. Correction number [[20:13:42]] For 211 It's a little short. Who's in charge of coming back? [[20:14:07]] For 226 Thank you. We're back. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please be supportive. [[20:14:33]] For 232 Thank you. We didn't do any worse, believe me. One day we'll get to it. Yeah, who else? Mr. Cranwell, please, and we're probably getting to the bottom of this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u386	I have literally four last revisions, and if you don't mind, I'll do them in a row so I don't get distracted. Regulation No. 687 on page 188. It refers to a very unpleasant phenomenon, such as negative agitation. In any civilized country in the world, it is written down by a specific norm, so that there is no one to be held accountable for it. And here, a single paragraph is proposed, a separate part, according to which, necessarily, negative information can be legitimately provided. Organizations, parties and blocks, more loyally, who ordered and placed this negative information, must be given their output, which is, or a postcard, or a negative information video, on behalf of such a party and block. This is, for me, a perfectly normal thing and it's applied in all the countries of the world. Otherwise, it's going to be the same "nigger" as it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u387	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this: the proposal to legalize negative agitation in any form, or anti-agitation, is a legal form of pre-election agitation. Have we had enough of the hostility we had? That enemy we had. I want to stress once again, all the speeches for or against allowed, but anti-agitation is not an action against. It's worse than that. If we want the size of a nigger, really, let's legalize the anti-agitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u388	The frames are hard to figure out, so it's probably Chernobyl right here. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support it. Vote. [[20:16:44]] For 186 But I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I think we should give the law as little as possible a reason to interfere with the courts because you know how the courts use it. Including this will be quite a moving article, because any agitation against will say, well, not supported. Please, let's do the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u389	Adam Ivanovich, there's no taking off the registration for these things. Well, it's not in the law. Don't scare people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u390	Amendment No. 717 on page 196. There's a rule in the draft law that officials and officials can do agitation if they're candidates for the MPs, which actually blurs out the rule that these people can't participate in agitation, of course, in normal circumstances. And that provides opportunities for abuse. It's suggested by this law if they're on election campaign time or at this time, when they're going to campaign, they're going to take a vacation. On vacation, for God's sake, all the ministers, all the others. I would like to remind you that only national deputies and the President, according to another rule of this law, do not have to go on vacation. And they have no right to go on vacation under this law. Everyone else can go. Do you want to advertise as a civil servant? For God's sake, take a vacation for this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u391	Yuri Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u392	Dear colleagues, this was the norm in Ukrainian legislation. In the “On Elections of People’s Deputies” Act of 1997. She was the subject of a hearing by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And in his decision of February 1998, he declared this requirement unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u393	I think we're clear. Yes, please, more. It's a Microphone. Yes, please, another microphone for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u394	Yeah, I don't quite agree with that, but, God forbid, I can still see that this amendment is not going to go away. The 741 revision is on page 202. It refers, in principle, to the same object. When a candidate is appointed, an official, or an official, according to this law that is proposed to us, he has the right to engage in the electoral campaign of his subjects. I suggest you do. The language goes so he doesn't have the right to involve them at work. I propose that the words “in working time” be deleted, and then he does not have the right to involve his subjects. If the subjects of this person are not a civil servant themselves, because the civil servants cannot agitate, they want to participate in the agitation, they can, as members of a party as politically active people, but not as a candidate for a state official's deputy. Otherwise we're just multiplying some administrative resources here by writing directly into the law. I ask you to put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u395	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, although I support this ideology, which has just been expressed, this position has also been considered in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine only in 2003. And the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has acknowledged that the requirement that there be restrictions on agitation outside the working hours is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u396	That's how I vote amendment 741. Please vote. [[20:20:20.]] For 139 Not supported. Yes, please, another microphone for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u397	The last amendment I'm proposing is Amendment 773 on the page, I'm sorry, well God with him, 773 amendments concerning what? The proposed law states that an observer may be removed from the commission if he violates certain standards set out in the preceding article. Indeed, these violations are serious enough, but there is no alternative. The chairman of the commission or the majority of the committee did not like the observer, and he can clearly be removed immediately. I'm proposing a rule that in the case of really gross violations, it can be removed as soon as it blocks the work, rushes to the ballots, and so forth. In other cases, he's given a warning, and he can be removed from the polling station at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u398	You know, I'd agree with that amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u399	Do we accept this right? No one's denying it. So we think we voted him. Yes. We vote, we vote, we vote. Kostinuk, a fair remark he makes. We're voting friendlyly under 400 votes. [[20:21:55]] For 275 Thank you. Who else? Yes, please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u400	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Amendment 157 is your amendment? And 159 is my amendment, but they're about the same thing. Regrettably, the electoral commission is considered to be a special, well - held, collegiate body. We believe that the word “State” should be removed, we believe that it will influence the administrative resource, because the public authorities have a certain hierarchy of subordinations. So government administrations can use that word. They've never been state law, they're special collegiate bodies. And I think it's going to be okay. There is a proposal for the word “State” to be removed. And this is, by the way, the amendment of both Martinyuk and mine. And I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u401	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you not to do this, and I remind the honourable colleague of Assadchev that in the Presidential Elections Act of Ukraine, these organs are state-owned. The point is that these authorities have the right to make decisions that are required to be implemented. And these decisions are protected by the power of the state, including the courts. They are subordinated, they have their own vertical. The Central Election Commission is senior on other electoral committees, but they have little to do with public administrations. Moreover, the law expressly prohibits the executive authorities from interfering with the work of the electoral commission. Yet their status is needed, for otherwise they cannot be compensated for the damage they will suffer as a result of fulfilling their duties and many other things. So I'm asking you, let's agree. By the way, this thing went through a consultation at the Institute of State and the rights of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u402	I think let's vote, what's more, the two deputies made the following changes: both Martinyuk and Assadchev. Please support, because the “state organ” is a little bit of it. Let it be “special” as it is written. We have a friendly vote. [[20:24:23]] For 218. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Please vote. [[20:24:47]] For 236 We now vote in favour of two amendments 157 and 158 where it applies that these are “State bodies”. Please vote. [[20:25:12]] For 246 Copy that. Did everyone count? Please, Yuri Bogdanovich, then I have another one. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u403	Dear colleagues! I want to use the right to deny the amendment that is proposed to be taken into account. This is the chapter of the Fourteenth “Use of an automated information and analysis system”. Amendment 1079 on page 328. An amendment is included that proposes to exclude this whole section. Unfortunately, however, the use of the information and analysis system in elections is no longer regulated. This chapter states, inter alia, that the information on the Central Electoral Commission’s websites is only informational, not official. There is no such thing anywhere else in the law, and there is no one else. Only here does it talk about certain rules that apply to the activities of this information system. So if the session room supports support, I will no doubt agree with it, but I request this amendment for confirmation to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u404	Yes. Dear colleagues, of course. We want more trouble with different ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u405	Just so you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u406	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u407	It's so that you don't have to worry about different servers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u408	No, wait! Wait! Let the Central Electoral Commission, as an auxiliary body, determine what it wants. But it doesn't work, so I'm sorry for the non-parliamentary word -- in the law. Because then she refers to the law, writes her instructions, and then she says she does. Let's get rid of it. So I'm voting to remove this from the law. Please vote. It's only friendly because there's no time. [[20:27:10]] For 234 Copy that. Yes. And, dear colleagues, Yuri Bogdanovich, maybe you'll help me, I've lost where I'm talking about, unaccounted for, that the territorial district election boards are receiving ballots from a CTC representative or another authorized representative. I'd like to take the other officer in charge. What's just me? Let us find together what article is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u409	Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich! I'm just asking you to take a good look at the situation. Three days before the day of the vote, ballot papers should be handed over to district election committees at their meetings. CTC members 15, Districts 225. This member of the Central Electoral Commission is to attend all meetings of all the territorial or district election committees in his areas of responsibility. That's about 40 or 50 districts. Well, it's not realistic to do that, technically it's unreal. So this rule will be violated if you accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u410	What a special relationship he has to lead. But the relationship, and the protocols are passed on by the one who has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u411	But he won't be there physically.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u412	Please sign up, let's exchange our thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u413	15 members of the CTC, society, think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u414	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u415	Dear colleagues! In Russian is a saying that sounds so “best – the enemy of good”. Of course, it would be desirable for a member of the Central Electoral Commission to personally list all the ballots and hand them over exactly to the heads of the district committees. Well, let's actually think about it a few days before the election. Well, think about it, the Central Election Commission works almost continuously, and they barely have time to just visit the area and sort out these complaints. And you say that each member of the 15 members of the electoral commission in 450 constituencies has to count and sign. Well, of course it's not a realistic norm. If we don't want to run an election or give a preemptive reason to cancel their results, that's the only one. So, of course, we don't have to support this, or we're just going to set a standard when those lists that aren't going to pass, I think they don't have that right here, they do. obtain the opportunity to challenge the results of the elections. It's a mine under the election. Don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u416	Please, Eshchenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything's gonna be okay now. Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u417	Fucking Communist faction. I, Adam Ivanovich, support your demands to increase the role of the Central Election Commission in the transfer of ballot papers. We have examples when these ballots are delivered we don't know who and then we have trouble on the territorial commissions. That's why we need members of the Central Electoral Commission to transmit. If you need change, someone else. This needs to be confirmed at the election committee meeting at the invitation of the voters in the electoral process. And he should also agree with them that it would not be possible for those representatives to be from one party represented by authority or someone else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u418	Matthew's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u419	55th Precinct, Mariupol. Respectful colleagues, if you really think clearly about the situation, imagine the electoral side of the situation. Complaints flow. CTC members deliver these ballots. It's just not real. The question is, there's a system, there's a control system, so let's say, behind the ballots. It is, it is written, it exists. But there's one more moment. Authorized persons, who is it? I think it's important to say here that the internal document of the CEVC should be clearly spelled out, or in the law let's write out who is the “authorized person”, what are its functions and so on. So that we know clearly that there is no double treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u420	Dear colleagues, a clarification is offered that may remove the problem. If it's not just representatives, it's authorized representatives of the CIA Secretariat. Let's write it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u421	Dear colleagues, I think let's actually be the responsible employees of the Central Electoral Commission. Objection, Oneschuk, microphone now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u422	Dear colleagues. It's that rare case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u423	820 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u424	This is a rare incident that I may not agree with my colleague Yuri Bogdanović in view of the following. Dear friends, I know it's hard. I know it's hard, but the C.V.C.A. did it first. Second of all, it's the most important thing. A member of the Central Electoral Commission is personally responsible for violations that are possible in the transfer and delivery of ballot papers because he is responsible for the breach of an oath, including the possibility of being dismissed. A worker, even a member of the secretariat of any political responsibility, is only a hired worker, does not bear. So, my friends, we have to leave this rule the way it's supposed to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u425	Yeah, right. Now, Yuri Bogdanovich. Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u426	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues, a respected drafter of the bill, if such a rule is not resolved, which is certainly very few members of the CLTC, let us not take this into consideration by members of the department. Let's still write down this standard of “authorized person by decision of the CBC”. Let them determine who this person is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u427	The point is, right now, it's in the law, and that's what's causing the denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u428	Dear colleagues, we've been talking, and now Yuri Bogdanovich, by voting, we're going to define the fate of this 820 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u429	Dear colleagues, I'm still asking you to pay attention to when the ballots are passed on to the territorial election boards. This is done in the last week before the election. Each member of the commission is controlled by about 20-30 districts, if only on the day of visiting four districts, 20 districts are five days away from Kiev. It is five days before the election that the CEC is unable to make any decisions, and this is the last week before the election, a very dangerous situation. So I'm asking you to go to this compromise and predict what is being passed on either by members of the CLTC or by the decision of the CLTC by representatives of the CLTC Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u430	Dear colleagues, there are several points of view, so we will vote them and define them. The point of view I expressed in Amendment 820 was supported by Mikola Onischuk to be members of the CBC, as it were. And the second point of view, which is more real, is what Yuri Bogdanovich and I made. Either members of the CLTC, or employees of its secretariat, have been decided by the CLTC. Here's these two proposals I'm going to put to the vote. The first is the suggestion that these be just members of the CLTC. I'd like to make up my mind. [[20:35:46.]] Z-91 Now, let's make this compromise that the members of the CLTC or the staff of its secretariat have decided by the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote. 820. It's a new edition. [[20:36:11]] For 324 Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, I see that more insistence, with a good vote, means I'm back again, everyone who had a wish to speak has made a statement, then please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you. Please sign up for five minutes and we'll vote. Yes, Tkalenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u431	Tkalenko National Movement of Ukraine, Yushchenka Block faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We have the law in force since October 1st, except for the articles that provide for the collection of lists or the identification of voter lists. Why don't we introduce an amendment that would have already put this law into effect right from August 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u432	Right. Yes. Most realisticly, I think it's best to write, if, Yuri Bogdanovich, I want you to hear me, Yuri Bogdanovich, I think the best thing to do is to write that this law goes into effect from the moment it's published -- that was probably the best thing, but he's going to say, yes, please, Poliit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u433	The faction of the company please pass the word to Vladimir Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u434	Yuri Bogdanovich, tell me. Then turn on the Jeszczenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u435	I want to point out that we can't fully introduce this law right now. Because the present vocation is in effect and there is going to be a replacement of the deputies at the loss of the authority of one of the attendees selected for the list, and if the 2001 law fails, then the replacement will be stopped. So, until then, so long. There was a well-drafted proposal by Taras Chernobyl in the “Final Positions”, which fully addresses the issue. And I'd like to stick to this proposal. There the two articles take effect as of August or September, which refer to the voter lists. The Law itself of October 1st, and the replacement of candidates, sometime since the electoral process began.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u436	Yuri Bogdanovich, she's counted, is that the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u437	Yes, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u438	Then we'll go back. Please, Eshchenka, follow him Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u439	Fucking Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich and the distinguished national deputies. The law is very responsible, and in the course of his discussion we have seen that there are many inaccuracies. There is a request to work it out, and we need to look at it again. Because the mistakes that we're going to make today, then they all appear in the elections. And then it is very difficult to explain to our electorate why we have adopted such a Law. So I suggest we reopen the committee and present it to us in final form in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u440	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u441	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. To remove all fears and scarecrows, I ask you to convey the word to one of the most experienced national deputies in Ukraine, Sergio Matviyenkovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u442	And that's the right thing to do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u443	Dear colleagues, you know, we've practically solved a lot of questions. But I'm very sorry that we didn't study Matthew's amendment, and we didn't solve one serious problem: the people with disabilities who are bedridden. Or we should have gone along the road, as is done throughout the world, when they ride with urns on their homes and there is a system. Or develop a model that does not degrade this category of people but creates normal voting conditions. To avoid running, to give them no information, to not take note of these certificates, and to create no additional hindrances or obstacles. I think, in this respect, the Law is very weak and there are moments here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u444	Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u445	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You know that speaking about this Law is very weak, obviously it is, to some extent, to bend the soul, especially if you compare it to the one that is today before the vote in general. Clearly, this law will not become a panacea of various manipulations, violations, for if some political players and electoral entities try to use the cracks in the law to manipulate forgeries, nothing will save them. Obviously this bill, this law, if we vote in general, and the faction of the People's Party proposes to vote on it as a whole, will allow you to minimize these narrow spaces, minimize these gaps, which obviously the unfavorable participants in the process will try to use for opaque elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u446	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u447	Thank you. I would like to point out that our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will call for a vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Why? Because, of course, there are no limits to perfection and can be improved, there is much that can be done. And I'm glad that the new opposition is so careful that the law is good, but believe me, this law is much better than the one over which the opposition has won in the past. That's why I think it's worth supporting. I realize that the Communists will not vote, but I would advise them to vote anyway. Because the law is really the perfect law for all of us to go to the elections. Thus, a normal, quality, full law. I urge everyone to vote and to take an example from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u448	Yes, please, come on. I know we have two Matthews. It wasn't about you, because you didn't apply. You don't have to. Dear colleagues, calm down. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. And now we're going to define everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I would not take the floor if there were no proposal to postpone the final approval of this law until the next session with a view to further improving it. I'd like you to take into account that, first of all, the purpose of this law, I've already talked about it, is to start the process of putting the voters' lists together now in the absence of a single voter register. I draw your attention to the fact that if we really want to ensure the democracy and transparency of the next parliamentary elections, this element in this process, that is to say the process of creating or making electoral lists, is simply critical. It takes time. And that's why this law proposes to start this process as early as August 1st. If no decision is taken on the final approval of this bill, of course this process will be postponed. So my request goes back to the next one, and it reflects the principle of a government position that is equally interested in ensuring transparency in the next election: approve this bill, give the opportunity to start the voter list process. And in September, we will be able to go back to the question of improving this law in the part that takes effect on October 1. And we'll be able to do that. So I ask you to follow such counsel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u450	Thank you. Vladimir Matthew and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u451	Respectable voters, respectable people's deputies and distinguished presiding officers. The law, of course, does not have a limit to perfection, as does any serious document. Letters, commas, phrases could be polished — anything, but the law is necessary. That's the first one. Second. I propose that this law be further amended by instructions and regulations that will be issued by the Centre for Elections under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Council. One of these changes must be that: the main falsifications go to us at the level of the district electoral commissions. The forms of the protocols of the district electoral commissions should be numbered. If they're numbered, then it's going to be very hard to fake. This should be provided by the Centrebierk, and we must already follow up on this, so that this can be done by the Centresbyert and then by the district electoral commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u452	Yes, dear colleagues, I think let's maintain this standard. The Central Election Commission agrees with the proposal that the territorial protocols, or district election committees, be numbered, shall mean the letters on which they are composed to be numbered. Please vote. Then Suskevich. We're voting on this proposal. We're voting friendlyly. CVC – “for”. [[20:46:33]] For 361 And Suškević last, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u453	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you so much for giving me your word. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank Yuri Bogdanovich for what he has done. After voting the disabled in Ukraine, and this has always been discrimination and, unfortunately, the fact remains that today the disabled are not integrated into society because the unchallengedness of the constituency of the constituencies remains out of the notice of this law. I leave the right to make changes so that today everyone with disabilities can come to the polling station and vote. It's real. As is done in the world and in Europe. And I want to address Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Notice the President's decree of June 1, 900, and it all says that today should be done in polling stations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u454	Dear colleagues, in the course of our discussion, there was another idea that was emphasized by the deputy Matvienkov. He offered to go back to considering the suggestion that if a person could not come to the district commission, he would have to provide help, help. We voted about 200 votes, but this proposal didn't pass. But I'm betting on Matvienkov's offer: who's in charge. Before voting, please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u455	I'd like to ask my colleague Matvienkov, and I've given him a special explanation, and I'd like to explain again, and I'd ask him to withdraw my offer. Once again, older persons, persons with disabilities, persons who are severely ill and who are constantly unable to move on their own, do not need any document to obtain the right to vote at home, and this right is fixed at the stage of the formation of voter lists, that is, in summer and autumn of this year. They don't need any documentary confirmation. However, once again, I want to point out that we had epidemics in some areas during the elections, and when up to 30 to 40 percent of voters voted at home. So in order for such cases not to occur, someone who is generally healthy and full but temporarily ill, let's say, bedding, high temperature, he has to give a copy of the document that confirms it. Because otherwise, the same abuses that we had will begin again. That's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u456	Dear colleagues! We need to adopt the law. Let's do it democratically. I'm making an offer. Who's in favour of coming back to this amendment, please vote. [[20:49:43]] For 131 That's it. Dear colleagues! The factions? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Ukraine -30, Communist - 53, People's Party - 5, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social-Democratic Party - 11, Ukraine - 2, Democratic Ukraine - - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 6 Deminitiates - 0, non-fractional - 5. Yes, dear fellows, we will conclude our discussion. At that point, I'd like to point out a few points. As we worked on this law, we showed you a little bit about how to work on the laws in the second reading. If you and I had worked on all the laws and not those that affect our interests, believe me, the legislative framework would have been much better for us. And so you and I, again, I repeat, we worked with you about 3 percent as required by the Rules in the second reading, and all of us, every thousand amendments, should go from and to the end with you, that is, days 2 or 3. This is one moment. One second. Wait, please. Don't yell. One second. Let's really thank the authors who worked on this bill, we see. That he's much better. The only thing I have is a certain, so to speak, satisfaction and warning that Yuri Bogdanovich, as the author of the law, then revised the law by 80 percent. I mean, it was better to rule right away when he was preparing it, because the absolute number of rights that went through are the laws of Yuri Bogdanovich. Thus, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies, a new edition. 6531-2. [[20:52:21]] For 319 Thank you. The law is passed. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 72, Communists – 1, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 45, People’s Party – 40, Block Timoshenko – 35, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People’s Party – 23, Sokol – Democratic Party – 20, “Ukraine” – 16, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, “Industry and Entrepreneurs” – 14, “Democratic Initiatives” – 2, non-fractional – 8. [[united]] Dear colleagues, we have a few minutes. I want to make an announcement. In line with article 13, we generally accepted it as a law in general. Once again, in the second reading and generally as a law, I put it to the vote. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karatumanov, Oleg Juriovich, from the Democratic Initiative Group and its membership in the People's Party faction. Dear colleagues, be careful, we have seven minutes to go, and we have a lot of work to do. We heard a report yesterday from an authorized human rights officer. Clearly, yesterday we were unable to physically accept the appropriate decision on this report. I suggest, come on, we have a draft decree on the annual report of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine, this is registration number 7750, prepared by the Professional Committee. Let's vote it out, it approves the activity of the authorized one, and it gives certain orders. Please vote. Vote, the bill's author, Udovenko. Vote. [[20:54:40]] For 227 Thank you, 227 voted. Yes, now, please, Jeremiah, then Shufrich. Factions please: Our Ukraine – 11, communists – 22, Ukraine – 42, People's Party – 40, Timoshenko – 4, Social Party – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 12, Social Democrats – 20, Ukraine – 14, Democratic Ukraine – 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, Democrats – 1, Postfaction – 5. [[United]] Please, the microphone of Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u457	Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We're going on vacation tomorrow. Today, there is a tendency to grow in the oil market. Futures on oil for August and September of the month rise to $370 a tonne. There are two bills that stabilize the market and oil products or guarantee that there will be no rapid rise in oil prices on summer vacations. I very much ask you to consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u458	Dear colleagues, we decide democratically. Who's in favour of considering these bills now, please vote. [[20:56:06]] For 134 Shufrek, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u459	Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. I want to remind you that the issue of co-conspirators was the object of the opposition in this session hall this week. We are in line with the daily Bill 7628, 7700 – these are the drafts on the specificities of discharge of persons who combine the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputies with other activities and amendments to the law on the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in connection with the adoption of this bill. Today, we have witnessed that many of our colleagues, feeling responsible, have taken a decisive, not simple, step for themselves, but a constitutional and courageous step. I ask you to help others by voting on this law, and if our colleagues do not want to be in the executive branch of power, we will gladly welcome them into this session hall, and I myself, our chocolate hare, Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m1.u460	Who's in favour of Nestor Schufrich's proposals, please be determined? [[20:57:37]] For 217 Dear colleagues! Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[20:58:05]] For 229 I'm working on the Rules, Comrade Koval. 229. The factions, please. We have suggestions that if not supported, we can go back. And we vote, but I don't vote. “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 36, regions of Ukraine – 38, People's Party – 29, Block Timoshenko – 28, Socialists – 22, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Social-Democratic – 19, Only Ukraine – 18, Democratic Ukraine – 19, entrepreneurs – 13, democratic initiatives – 1 non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues! I remind you of these bills that we need to consider in the second reading of Bill 7628 on the draft law on specialities and discharges of persons who are compatible with the mandate of a national MP with other activities. Second reading. Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich reports from the Committee. Sorry to come back, 229. Who's in charge of today's review of Bills Nos. 7628 and No. 7700? Please make up your mind. [[20:59:35]] For 219 All of it. Dear colleagues, I sincerely thank you for your fruitful work, especially on the Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies”. At this, the evening session of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
