ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:01:00]] There are 422 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We are continuing our consideration of the issue, registration number 7181, of amending certain laws of Ukraine. Please, we have 12 minutes to discuss. The word has been given to the national MP Mironenko. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u2	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. What will result from the adoption of the bill? Anyone can understand that if he thinks of the situation in the fishing industry. Capitalists wishing to gain a well-developed approach to the communist fishing industry, which provided fish for the population of Ukraine at very low prices, have made a transition to the private capitalist banking system, privatization and have begun to supply fish abroad. In particular, an agreement had been concluded with the Baltic countries on concessional fisheries for shipping to Ukraine, which had placed the domestic fishing industry under unequal conditions. It is likely that individual employees of the Government of Ukraine received bribes for these supplies, but as a result of Kerchribprom, Jugribpois and other ocean fishing enterprises have failed. Oceanic fisheries have almost been completely destroyed. It delivered about 70 percent of the fish to our domestic market. Fishermen, fish combinations extracting fish in the Asia-Black Sea region are on the verge of bankruptcy. Foreign suppliers, ruling in our market, have determined, as we all can see, huge prices. Go to the market, who doubts, go to the shops, and you'll see. It was hoped that, following the accession of Lithuania, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia to the European Union, following the accession of Lithuania, Lithuania and the accession of Estonia to the European Union, the free trade area would be eliminated, providing benefits to foreign suppliers. And damage to the national manufacturer. But it wasn't here. The Government is now proposing this bill, which improves, improves, but in principle, it is not finally possible to change it to the best, because the concept of the law itself is repugnant, it is not in the interest of the domestic producer, who must produce meat, fish, market and other agricultural products. You will see, make a conclusion, please, those who insist, Terehin and others, on the adoption of this bill. Socialist or communist, let's say, agriculture has supplied 3.7 times more cattle to the domestic market, three times as many pigs. And now? We're seeing a terrible fall. A million tons of misdelivery to the domestic meat market, and where are you going? You are, in fact, repeating the same harmful course. We suggest that the communists provide real support for agriculture. This is to ensure the creation of public banks that provide access to agriculture, to end privatization and to provide real support to agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u3	Kalinchuk Vasil, a faction of the People’s Party, has the word to prepare for Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u4	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I will not be mistaken if I say that among the national deputies of Ukraine, there are people who have given agriculture most of their lives. And what's happening in the field today, of course, hurts us. We understand all the good intentions of the new government to stabilize the situation in the food market, especially in the part where prices for meat and meat are not allowed to grow. The government wants to do everything to prevent the people of Ukraine from saying, "New people have come, and in a short time, life has deteriorated." That's why this one needs to be supported. At the same time, when preparing this bill to be considered in the session hall, national deputies, along with government officials, scientists, and experts, took into account a number of factors so that, at some point, we would not support the producer of the foreign country, and that was said by the national deputy Vasuk. This is a sin that, with such lands and hardworking people in Ukraine, we do not have enough meat, and many holes in the food market are again wanted for import. Such practices must be put to rest once and for all. The creation of a precedent is very appealing to act in a similar way and so forth. This bill should provide for customs bans that would create an equal competitive environment both for our own and for a foreign producer. In addition, the approved project will help to eliminate customs duties and reduce customs costs. Secondly, is there a 100% guarantee that high-quality products will enter our market? Be assured that they will bring everything together in a row. So, first of all, we have to take care of the health, veterinary services to bring only good - quality products into our territory. The People's Party faction will welcome any steps taken by the government to restore our agricultural production, I mean, enough to ensure food security. But this requires concrete measures that will allow the country’s production to be ensured in a year and a half. Let's stop making our people carriers of eventually foreign halls, and they'll produce them in abundance, because we have the most precious treasure -- the gold-working hands of our peasants who are at least able to feed their people. So in support of the government's bill, we have to do everything possible for the producer of food for our own manufacturers in sufficient quantity and high quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u5	Mikhailo Ratushny, please microphone. Right. He's giving up his time. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u6	Yes, I'm handing over mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u7	John the Rabbit, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u8	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Should we be surprised by the government’s desire to review customs tariffs? No, it's not. For every government that seeks to carry out an effective economic administration is obliged to do so from time to time. External and internal conditions are changing quite rapidly, so these changes need to be responded to in a timely and qualified manner. But such changes should not be frequent in order not to diminish business opportunities, and they must be very calculated, well-founded and complex. At the same time, there must be a special approach to each customs tariff. What does the minister offer us? A fairly radical update of the customs tariff system has led to serious failures in several directions. For example, an increase in customs tariffs and excise duty should be taken to import used cars from the European Union, which has essentially paralysed this entrepreneurial activity. And this situation needs to be rectified immediately. I set this example so that we do not cut off our shoulders today, but rely on the experience we have already gained. What is behind the government’s proposal to reduce customs tariffs for agricultural products? This is the second time I've listened to the minister, and I hear the same thing, that a lot of production is coming through free economic zones, and that's why there's no coming, and that's why there's big corruption. It really is. But that is not a satisfactory answer, for we still want to ask a few questions. How do these changes increase or reduce the competitiveness of a national producer? Do these changes improve the conditions for creating their own internal market by producing national or vice versa? Are we protecting a national manufacturer today? These questions must constantly be in the perspective of our government, and if we think so, we will be making a very balanced economic policy. We realize that we need to fill the budget quickly today and that we need to lower the tariffs, but we need to think about how this policy will quickly affect strategic decisions. Whether we open up the market or not we block the creation of an internal, whole, full-fledged, economic system. I think if we go this far, we'll be in a lot of trouble. So today we need to think about how to balance these decisions with our government. And one such mechanism is a very simple mechanism, is the quota. And even today, representatives of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party have submitted a bill on quotas for imports. [[It's Assadchev and others.]] And if we were to adopt the import quota law at the same time, if the government were to determine the extent to which we could import in one or the other nomenclature, then it would be in the interests of our manufacturer, in the interests of the internal market and in the national interest. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you with a proposal to put the day-to-day issue of quota imports into order and to adopt this bill. Otherwise we'll have a pretty bad situation. We need to understand that agriculture is particularly vulnerable. And particularly vulnerable are the positions associated with the large production cycle, such as the same meat production of large cattle or other things. Agriculture can be destroyed very quickly, and it cannot be picked up so quickly. So we don't have to give examples of exotic products here today. We need to talk more about these positions today, which are the essence of our agricultural production -- this is meat, for example, sugar, these are other products. And if we really fit in like this, we liberalize our economic system, we'll be able to activate a potential that's never been used before. If we go about this simply in general, it is not thought out, then we will do great harm to our agricultural producer. Today, a very careful decision is needed. So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you in the first reading to adopt this bill, and while the bill is being prepared for the second reading, it will be necessary and a bill on the quota of products will have to be adopted. We're going to be quota production, we're going to be selling quotas, and we're going to be sending these quotas to support our national producer. If we want to save him, let's save him, and now I'm handing over what's left of me, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u9	Cherniak's microphone, please, one minute black. Well, because one, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, in a state of difficulty, I went up to this rostrum. What's the point of the problem, what's the root of the problem, what's the point of the problem? It's because our economic policy doesn't have strategic solutions. The absence of strategic decisions leads to the government’s action on forest fires. Someplace the fire started -- it was extinguished, someplace else -- it was extinguished. So you need a strategy, you need a concept. And the necessary strategic decisions are predictable, including the need for
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u11	Yes, dear fellows, there is one more minute, for one minute John the Rabbit has given away, one more minute, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u12	In this regard, I would say that there is no customs policy in Ukraine. We have valid specific rates, the government raises the stakes, it decreases. The Supreme Council intervenes -- the Wakhanalia happens, there's no economic policy, we don't know what's going to happen next? Is the government going to raise the bribe, or is it going to lower it? Let him tell us what his intentions are for the future, let him tell the producers, the exporters, the importers. Then we'll be able to work properly. Here's the problem. What am I calling you to? I urge you to close your eyes, press the pros button and think about Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, we have a draft decision. Before the vote with a motive. Just a minute. We have a draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian customs tariff laws. The author of the draft decision, Mikola Rudzkowski. In accordance with the Rules, he is entitled to three minutes to speak, to justify his project. Then we're going to define it by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the national deputy of Cherniak, who eloquently explained the essence of this bill. But let's not close our eyes on what they're trying to do with Ukraine. If we adopt this law, I'll repeat myself, maybe compared to my previous speech, we'll actually give Ukraine the opportunity to import Polish potatoes, Bulgarian onions, peppers, cucumbers and tomatoes, Turkish other goods. We're going to fill the Brazilian market with American and Brazilian bush legs and so forth. We have one opportunity to eliminate the Ukrainian agricultural producer. If we adopt this law in this kind of way, if we sit at the negotiating table and talk, arranged for the bird meat, let's separate it and accept it separately. But here's an import duty on coffee and tea. And the question is, 97 percent why, what you're going to do with the budget, I'm going to ask you, is that it's a tax commodity. This is not just animal and vegetable production, flour, grain, and all the products of this product. I'm asking who's comfortable with this law, the Ukrainian manufacturer's clearly not comfortable with it. And if the price of fuel-oil materials goes up, and it's up now, what's the price of agricultural production going to be? I'm asking people who used to be in the agrarian party. You realize that since September, no one's going to pick up the product if we take off the import duty. Polish potatoes will be 30 percent cheaper than Ukrainian potatoes. Ukrainian corn will not be sown. Now the Ministry of Economics has accepted the indicative price of sugar beet and sugar, 1900. As a result, people stopped sowing sugar beet. Let us adopt this law — and in Ukraine no one else will be producing meat. Nobody's going to care about that, because they're going to know what's coming from abroad. I think we should vote for unacceptableness. Let the government and the committee do what we can. We're going to protect the Ukrainian manufacturer and have a full Ukrainian market. No European State has filled its market at the expense of imports. And Ukraine has this agrarian, agricultural state that has these lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? We finished the discussion. Now the minister's closing word, he's asking for one minute. After that with motive, and then there'll be a vote. Let's write it down. Please, Sergey Terjohin, Minister for Economic Affairs and Euro-Integration. It's not about European integration anymore, it's about economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u16	Yeah, no Euroinclusion. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And I'd like to start with some lines about the last speech. First, the Ministry of Economics does not set indicative prices, but the Cabinet of Ministers does so under the Ministry of Agriculture's agrarian policy. That's the first one. It's different. This bill discusses, not the reduction of myths, but the organization of them. I repeat that 91 percent last year in two months of this year meat and meat products were imported into Ukraine with a zero rate of duty and no value added tax. It was a crime against a national producer. We cleaned up that crime when we cleaned up those benefits. However, another situation has arisen, with customs of up to 360-380 percent in some positions. That's why it doesn't, that's a ban on taxes that don't satisfy our market, which has a deficit of 430 grand. Tones per year. So, honourable national MPs, honourable Mr. Chairman, this law, I would like to draw your attention once again, has been recalled, it has followed this very strict reconciliation procedure with the Agrarian Policy Committee, with the Committee on Finance, many meetings have been held. The latter had more than 400 manufacturers and processors. All positions agreed. In view of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of what Catherine Timofievna Vashuk said in the rostrum, the government, with these remarks, proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading and in general and finally to close the imbalances in the price market. The alternative is that the trend in consumer prices will increase in real population income in just two months -- January and February by 26 percent. And we're going to have our pensioners go to markets and they're going to get four to six percent price increases every week. So there's a request to support agrarians, processors and government positions. Well, that's the last of it. I'd be happy to invite Mr. Rudzkowski instead of writing such decrees of inadmissibility to the government, we've already seen you and the bushes when you went there with the goats. So, please, we'd be happy to welcome you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, one minute! Mikola Mikolaiovich, I can see everything. Let us thus, fellow believers, ask you, because a very important question and a responsible decision is needed, with the motive of five minutes. Please sign up. And after that. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, they're not. Those were the performances, dear fellows. We're done talking. Please sign up. Replica to Rudzikowski, as the name was mentioned. I'd like more names not to mention. And then Chubarov Rephat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u18	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! I'll let you know that I've just never gone to the Cabinet of Ministers with no cartilage or anything. I worked as a national deputy at the time because the Supreme Council was working. And the fact that the citizens of Kyiv and Chernigiv region came to the Cabinet of Ministers to draw your attention to the need to engage in the work of a national producer, we, the socialists, are grateful that they are paying your attention. And you sat down, after all, with the deputies and began to compromise. But they were looking bad, Sergey Anatolyevich. For the time being, this law cannot be adopted, for it is only compromising in some parts of the meat and can be individually separated and accepted. Give me a separate law. And in vegetables and all the other products, it's a crime against Ukrainians who work on the ground. As my grandmother says, they're walking. Let us give them whatever help we can to give them and their attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u19	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Andrew Politt will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I give the floor to my colleague Stepan Cloud. Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u21	Thank you. Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials! Of course, the main instrument of market protection is quota. And if anyone thinks that this will affect the purchasing power of our citizens, he is deeply mistaken. And that's why we can't pass this law until the government agrees to go into quota clearly, because otherwise we'll open our market for uncontrolled import of products from abroad. And so, and in the future, it's going to hit our consumers, not just the producers. So once again, I ask you to take the matter very seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u22	Andrew Polit, Communist faction. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u23	Andrei Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! First, the Communist faction will not vote in favour of this shameful bill. Secondly, you and I are witnesses, as the government of Yushchenka, nationalists and socialists have shown its anti-national nature and inability today to ensure that national interests are protected. Thirdly, it's a policy for the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's a reduction in revenue to the budget, that's financing a foreign producer, it's an increase in unemployment, it's not a decrease, it's an increase in prices in the internal market, it's going to import different crap from abroad to the internal market, it's an increase in inflation at least up to 30 percent after the end of the year. So the faction stresses and urges us not to vote in any way, because it's a criminal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u26	Leonid Isaiah, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u27	Please give the floor to my colleague Potapov Vassili Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u28	Vasil Potapov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u29	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, we can all agree on what colleagues say, but I have a more specific question. Today Sergey Anatoleevich and I agreed that the procedure was to prepare this document so that very much of what we agreed to at the meeting with the importers was simply not implemented. In order not to take time, I would just like to suggest that the comments that we have today, if we put to the vote, the Ministry of Economics, in the face of Sergei Antolievich, will still be gone. And if you can, four minutes, that's ten seconds to hand over to my colleague, Hellhound.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u30	Hell, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, given that the issue is very acute, I propose that it be postponed for a while, invited by the Minister of Agriculture, heard his opinion and decided after the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u32	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the faction of the People's Party was one of the main workers and initiators who insisted on adopting the bill that we are discussing today because we went to the Cabinet of Ministers and everything else, but today there is a document of compromise. It normally protects our manufacturer and enables us to bring quality agricultural products to our consumer market. And those who cry crocodiles for what we've heard here, including representatives of the Socialist faction, I want to say one thing. Men, you can lead the pig to Kiev, which is what you did. You better go to your Minister of the APC and ask him why he supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u34	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u35	Garden, faction of the Socialist Party. I'd like to give it to Mikola Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u36	Mikola Eutychyevich Melnik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u37	As Deputy Cherniak said, there is no strategy in our government. We can also try to say that we understand that there is a great deal of money today and that we need to tie it to something. We realize that the government needs to feed people with cheap meat, but not for its manufacturer. It is our greatest fear that today the manufacturer will lose even more of his head. While we're here talking about this bill, 120 thousand tons of Farsh was taken to Ukraine today, and when I called Skomarovsky yesterday and asked how this farsh was brought to Ukraine. He tells me our borders are transparent, I can't tell from Belarus the paths and the roads and. from Russia. Then tell me while we're at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, with motives, we exchanged thoughts. I'd like your permission, Your Honor. I see everything, Igor Mikhailovich. With your permission to take away my guilt, because when we discussed the bill, I missed Igor Shurma and he had no opportunity to speak. One minute, please, microphone. Oh, no, I thought he was out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u39	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, the food security of Ukraine is being discussed in the hall. Today, everyone who votes in favour of lowering their duties is a traitor to the interests of a national producer who works for the agricultural queen. The government is not doing that, instead of making zero bids on animal credits, to buy new technologies, new equipment, they're forced to lower prices for customs. There will be a health issue tomorrow, since we will eat all the food we need from Europe. The only thing I would vote for is a zero bet on carrots to be enough for every government official to be given carrots to remember what they promised people during the period of the orange revolution. And it would remind them that their promises and actions are different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the Rules, the draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is first put to the vote. [[on the customs tariff]] Registration number 7181/P, about inadmissibility. [[16:32:03]] For-125 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 54, Ukraine - 27, National Party - 0, SPU - 24, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, SDPU - 15, Ukraine - 3, Democratic Ukraine - 0, SPT - 0, Union - 0 Democratic Initiatives - 0, NDP - 1. Dear colleagues! A proposal for a committee to adopt is now being put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the customs tariff]] Registration number 7181. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues, just on the basis of that. [[16:33:02]] For 211 The decision is not taken. In factions: "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communist - 1, "Ukraine" - 7, "The People's Party - 28, SPU - 1, Block Timoshenko - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDP (o) - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 6, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Industries, Entrepreneurs - 5, Democratic Initiatives - 13, "The Union" - 11, "The Non-Flocked - 14. What? Dear colleagues, to preserve democratic purity. I put it to a vote: who's in favour of going back to the question -- the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on customs tariffs? Registration number 7181. Come back. [[16:34:06]] For 224 The decision is not taken. By faction, please: "Our Ukraine" - 85, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 7, National Party - 28, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDP (o) - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 13, "Union" - 11, non-fractional - 16. I then ask the committee profiled together with the government to hold further consultations so that we can identify ourselves. For one more time? No, there's a proposition for a second time, Your Honor. Yes, the Committee's proposal, please. Well, your honor, if we don't make a decision, we've voted for the re-reading, we can make it right, put it to the vote. Well, why? Please, the microphone, well, we voted when the Committees' proposal was all the time, we put the honourable colleagues back on the first. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, there is a problem. We have to solve it. Of course, it's not the best way to lower customs rates, but there are goods that really require lower tariffs, they're not produced in Ukraine, but they're food. And this is all reflected in our law. So let's still send this law for further processing. You've all been sure, you've read the last version again, because very many national MPs have the first option, and they're confused today, not seeing the difference between the last and the first. And to reread it so that we can accept it in a way that would not harm a domestic farmer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote so that the Supreme Council will decide on the matter. May I have your attention, please? On re-reading the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the customs tariff]] [[Registration number 7181]] Let the Supreme Council determine that we have everything democratic. [[16:36:56]] For 252 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -84; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -2; People's Party -31; SPI -0; Block Timoshenko -24; Ukrainian People's Party - 24; SDPU -0; "Only Ukraine" -14; "Democratic Ukraine" -19; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine -9; "Democratic Initiatives" -13; "Union" -12; non-fractional -20. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is on the table. One minute, cancel. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko microphone. No, dear colleagues, what a break are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, our distinguished voters. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I give you my dues, but I would like those who will work for the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u44	First.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u45	Well, let's do it again. To make them think that now, today, our government is leading a policy of unconditional protectionism of import. And at the same time, they're suffocating their exporters, which, by the way, gives more than 60 percent of GDP. What do we approve of here? What do we approve of here? Let's think that those who are crying for a piece of meat for pensioners, what will they be paying for tomorrow's pension? I think they've come a long way. And we have to invite Julia Volodymyrna here, and let her explain with the numbers in her hands, what will it be? And so we're going to go very far, we're just going to plant our economy. She's already sitting down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, three factions in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules asked for a recess. This is the factions of Democratic Ukraine, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and the Region of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's work this out. If there's a statement, do it, but we won't take a break, because we have to work. Please, Nightshenko with an application.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u47	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Democratic Ukraine, election block of Vladimir Litvina. Dear voters, distinguished radio audiences. Today a storm warning has been sounded in Kiev. The northern regions of the Chernigiv and Suma region are already covered with snow, some two inches [25 cm]. But anxiety in the Ukrainian family came along with a storm report by the National Bank on a reduction in the official currency exchange rate. I, not all the national MPs, know that today the dollar stands for five bracelets and five coins, one hundred euro - 659 bracelets, corresponding to 0.14 and 0.20 per night. What tomorrow? Is it really the price of a bracelet, as the government claims, or will there be another humiliation tomorrow? First of all, exporters were alarmed, and many calls showed that they were absolutely right: their long - term agreements, made at the rate of the National Bank, not at the market rate. We have great doubts about the manner in which importers operate in the hands of the National Bank. And there is great doubt that they will voluntarily give up their profits and in the future. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I have a lot of concern about the state of the budget, its income portion of the income from enterprises' profits, which will be affected by these actions. Now it's become common today, so if we talk about the fact that a pensioner Ukrainian today has become 3-4 dollars richer per month in the calculation of these actions, it's become common for the average Ukrainian family and Ukrainians to keep their savings in currency for a black day. Well, they don't believe the economy minister to put the currency in the swap. They don't just believe. How can they be because they're poorer at these dollars? Today, rumors are generated by the lack of any information. I mean, the National Bank site is empty, the press release last December-month. And the offer. The faction and MPs of Democratic Ukraine, Regions, industrialists and entrepreneurs are invited to invite the finance minister or his deputy, the head of the National Bank or his deputy to explain the dynamics of the Ukrainian people from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u48	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget for Ukraine, registration number 735. [[on support for the production of animal production]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:43:07]] For 229 The decision is accepted, the question is included in the agenda. What? Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the statement just made, really needs attention. Please give a protocol order to contact the Minister of Finance and head of the National Bank. The national currency has been strengthened by 5 percent, which leads to the billions of losses of our exporters, this is the reduction in business income and budget revenue. Let the Minister of Finance confirm that the budget's income will not be reduced, let the head of the National Bank not say that tomorrow the national currency will be 5.50 and who will make it. Please give them a commission and call them here now, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal came from three factions, the proposal was supported, I understand, by the faction of the Socialist Party in the person of Mikola Rudzkowski. So let's put it this way: I put this proposal to the vote to hear tomorrow's First Minister of Finance, as well as the head of the National Bank, so that they can get ready, and tomorrow after the polls, after the speeches, that's about 11:00, we'll listen to the information. No warning? I am voting on the inclusion of the Minister of Finance and the head of the National Bank in the agenda. In the financial market, right? The problems associated with the national currency. Yeah, right? Please vote. [[16:45:15]] For 344 I can see that I will also agree with the Minister of Economics to be present to discuss this issue. Please, by the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u51	Vladimir Mikhailovich, literally one replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u52	Now, by factions, we'll say. "Our Ukraine" - 61, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 25, SPI - 27, Block Timoshenko - 9, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, SDPU - 22, "Democratic Ukraine" - 13, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Union" - 12, "Preflacation" - 13. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate written references to the heads of the designated agencies. Please explain one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u53	Thank you. I need 15 seconds. Vladimir Mikhailovich, in accordance with article 100 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is the only institution in this country responsible for maintaining the stability of the national currency, is, I remind you, the National Bank of Ukraine. Sadly, the government was also quite surprised by yesterday’s trade results. So we can listen to anyone here, but the first person to talk about the motivation for the course is the head of the National Bank. You want Minfin, you want Minneconomy, let's invite Minagroprom-- we can sit in line at the head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to make it clear once again that we have decided to hear tomorrow's information from the head of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on exchange policy issues. Yeah? Please, Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich's microphone. Reporters, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, Sergei Anatolyovich is a very experienced diplomat, and I think he's right, but he's 30 percent. We need a finance minister here to say what happens to the budget than this exchange rate difference. Sergei Anatoliyevich knows the rate of the exchange budget. On 5 and 3, right? 5 and 3. You've already turned it into 5 and 1. And now 5 05. So what happens to the budget? This is a very important social issue. These are the profits of the budget. These are local incomes, including local budgets. So you don't have to be here, you have to have Professor Pinsenick, the National MP, and you have to prove here what his point of view is on all of these practices and blemishes, as Ivan Andriyovich Krilov said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, we have included in the agenda a bill amending Ukraine's 2005 State Budget Act. [[on support for the production of animal production]] The reporter is Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna. And he's the Committee on Budgets of Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna. Please be prepared. Please. Ah, Kirilchuk. Eugene Kirilchuk, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the bill foresees allowing imports of goods belonging to a group of 1,24, that is, meat and other products into the country but under the following quota. Establish a quota of 300,000 tons of beef, pork, meat, and food for imports into Ukraine on May 1st. Frozen beef — 50,000 tons, 50,000 tons of pork, and 200,000 tons of domestic meat. At the same time, the quota is implemented at the next price. Ice cream — 100 euros per tonne; fresh pork — 150 euros per tonne; domestic poultry — 160 euros per tonne. In addition, imports of this product are carried out only by meat - processing enterprises. It is also envisaged that import quotas will be charged: at least 300 euros per tonne per beef, 450 euros per pig per tonne and 480 euros per bird per tonne. Income from import quotas is expected to be divided as follows: 50 per cent of the costs are allocated to financial support for animal production, and 50 per cent of the costs are allocated to increase the costs to compensate the Pension Fund for the difference between the amount of insurance contributions paid by peasants to the Pension Fund. Here's the bill. That's what's positive here is that the quota that's being clearly set is being sold. The rate of duty is high enough, allowing the Ukrainian market to be filled with meat and meat products, but it limits its quantity — that is, what the national deputies are talking about today. This bill can be adopted in the first reading and developed by standards that do not allow individual national MPs, and they made comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u58	Please sign up for a question, please, for three minutes. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u59	Please give the floor to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u60	Thank you, colleague of the miners. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear Catherine Timothy! Tell me, please, and can you not see that this law is actually very much in line with the previous law. First. And second of all. That the State Budget Act isn't just a violation that you're now proposing to eliminate, that there's still a violation that actually put our agricultural producers on their knees. I'd put it that way. They believe there is a genocide against them. There's no fuel, there's no subsidies, they're paying double taxes right now, and we're not all in this Law foreseen, but we need to make these changes to the Law on State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u61	Thank you for asking. This bill is practically an alternative to the bill that he filed with the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the customs tariff. An alternative to the people's deputies who are offering not just to open borders by setting the customs rates that you and I were trying to fix, to increase to this level, or the product of a domestic producer was competitive. And this bill limits the number of imports of products. Last year, 380,000 meat products were imported into Ukraine. That is, meat of various kinds. According to some figures, it's 450,000, we suggest, this law is not me who proposes 300,000 tons and at the same time high rates of duty. You can see that the euro, 1.5 euros per kilogram, is the rate of duty. And plus implementation of the quota for a separate fee. These funds are used to support animals and pensioners. This is the ideology of the bill. This is actually an alternative to government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u62	Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u63	Vladimir Matveev, Ukrainian Company faction. Please hand over to the Deputy Lechchenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u64	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u65	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Catherine Timofievna, you have a great record of parliamentary activity and, as I recall, it is you have always supported any proposals of government, government, various governments and previous and present governments, and so on. And we know what this has led to, the destruction of the practically agrarian sector. Including you just supported a government bill without quotas, and it's been completely released, and now you're proving to us that with quotas. So, tell us, which one do you support? And the second. There is a provision for compensation in this bill to the Pension Fund, namely agricultural producers. Thus, the Budget Law already provides for this compensation. What's going to be the above compensation or what's that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u66	Dear fellow national MP, we have always supported wise decisions, never supported what goes wrong, you know, very well. And when we talk about our remarks today, we've always talked about the fact that economically, financially unsecured agrarian policy leads to critical consequences. And all of our bills that I've drawn up, my colleagues from our faction, that's what they've been directed at, and you know that very well. And with regard to this bill, this is an MP's bill, it was developed by the deputies of our faction, and I helped them develop it. With regard to government work, a respected colleague was constantly on the committee. And it's this work that makes the customs tariff completely different. And you might have noticed that. There's no interest rate, and there's a euro, combined, they're protecting the peasant. As far as compensation is concerned. You know, even with a budget supplement, what pays for peasants today is only 60 percent, 40 is missing. You're on the Agrarian Committee, you should know that. And that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Time's up. Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk from the Budget Committee, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Yesterday, I sat down with the Budget Committee to discuss the issue raised and included in the agenda. The Committee on Budgets fully agreed with the definition made by our expert board that the bill in this form could not be supported. The arguments are serious because the main focus here is on quotas for imports of meat. But since there are mostly old duties, this bill cannot be accepted. Besides. The extent of the duty should be consistent with the government, as required by existing legislation. The government also does not support the bill. This bill disagrees with the Customs Council of the Cabinet of Ministers. And, of course, it has a significant impact on the size of the income and expenditure portion of the budget. Because of this, the ideology of this law is as good as it is, because part of the funds that come into the budget are to be earmarked for the dating of the animal sector. However, it cannot be accepted in such a state. As a result, the Budget Committee unanimously voted in favour of sending the project for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u69	A question, please, to our colleague. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u70	Dear reporter, please tell us, on the basis of this bill, that quotas are set up as the only mechanism that is proposed to be settled at the expense of this bill. Does it solve the problem, first of all, of destroying or at least reducing smuggling? Secondly, is there a set of incomes that are supposed to arise from the sale of quotas as a really profitable part of the budget that can be further channelled towards agricultural development? Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u71	Your two questions are interconnected. Absolutely. If, last year, almost a million tons of meat was smuggled in by the Minister of Economy's report, the losses were called at least three billion. If we were to cut taxes by half and control imports, we'd have half a billion dollars in revenue and 500 million dollars in cash. from the tax on added value. And, of course, then we could have made a decision here to channel some of this funding to support animalry. But they guarantee quotas that will destroy smuggling, no one will do so today, because virtually those who imported the meat by means of a smuggled method and those who have missed it so far on the same borders. So the problem cannot be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u72	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u73	Please give it to Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u74	Olga Hinzburg, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u75	Thank you. Eugene Ivanovich, I'm hearing it all with such misunderstandings, I can't understand it. Well, people who have all taken part in the extension of the collapse of the colonies, under the Earth Code, once again with these laws. We already know the results of this work. Can you please tell me that they know that chicken can grow up in four months? What can a pig be fed in seven months? Do they know that today a peasant sells a farmed pig in a village for five bracelets? Do they know that? Why can't we take these shoes and raise our chickens in six months and give them on farms? Whether to raise a porcupine or the same calf. It's very simple. All these people, normal people on earth know that. No, we have to get out of here so we don't grow our own. You tell me, isn't it a harm to the state, or should Turkinov be involved here?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u76	That's a good question, but we have to go back a little bit a year ago. Last year, due to the increase in smuggling, almost half of the livestock in Ukraine decreased. It takes some time, at least a year and a half, for pigs a year, to restore it and put it on the market. Where can you find that point of balance to provide food for your people and preserve or enable livestock to grow in the country? Of course, broilers or ducks can be fixed in two or three months. And a big horn and pork needs at least a year and a half. This year, then, it would be right for the government to emphasize that these quotas are being introduced to a certain increase in headship in Ukraine. Or it's a bribe. Then people would understand, our listeners and those who grow this livestock.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u77	Thank you, time is up, let's get to the discussion. We've got 15 minutes to talk. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would also like to thank the people's deputies of Sigal, Tomich, Burjak and others, a group of 11 people who passed this bill. Thanks for thinking about it, I'm not talking about smuggling, smuggling is about the B.S.A., the D.A., customs. I'm talking about legal figures that are in statistics. Consider these figures: In 2001, there were 79,000 tons of meat. 79. In 2004, 358,000 tons. The difference is 45 times. What have you done in Ukraine? The amount of land? People get worse? No, we have come up with a new concept with which the government, the old Kuchma and the new government, regrettably, do sit down and consult, consult with so - called importers. And then we got a conspiracy of importers and bankers, and together it's called bandits who get this village! So, Your Honor, I'd like to say that we don't have the notion of "importees" over the notion of "the Ukrainian people." And so that the next time you want to consult, you go to Kiev, or Cherkaščina, or anywhere, or Montenegro, and you go there, and you don't take fancy, fat-fed importers who promise something, some cash, some kind of screw. That's why this law, despite the Customs Council, must be adopted, and must be adopted urgently, because remember how we adopted the budget. We said, "We're voting, but we're going to be given this, this is the calculation, this is the program." Did you get this program? I didn't get it, nobody got it. So, in order to destroy nothing further, so that not only importers live well in this country, but all Ukrainian citizens, let's adopt this law -- it's very small -- in both the first and the second reading. We have to do this in the third instance. Why, because we've got our pipes, we've got quotas for everything, and we've even got that product that's renewable, that's what our grandparents here have been doing for three thousand years, we can't make a quota, because that's what you see. We're on our way. We don't have to do anything. Let's take it. We're protecting our Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u79	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Several conclusions from the study and consideration of the project. First. The anti-trafficking declaration and the reduction of actual tariffs for those who had previously smuggled was a return on debts to those who had financed the Yuschenka election. That's the first conclusion. Second conclusion. Social demagogies on lowering prices for meat are a disguise to essentially repay debt to Western politicians and reaffirm that we have an anti-national, anti-national government with a view to the Western producer, not a native peasant. Third. That's what Kuchma's foster parents do. Pay attention. - and that is the conclusion that we, the Communists, have long suggested that the power is being redistributed and another part is being enriched. What will result from this customs tariff change policy by the Government of Nationalists and Socialists? First of all, the prices for meat will not be reduced. Secondly, we need you to understand that the budget is going to steal a billion grevens, underfunded. They won't get the peasants, they won't get the producers. Third. We must bear in mind that today all “necessity” will be involved in the deep freeze of rotting meat, in the process. In the meantime, we're going to make an inadequacies sausage. At the same time, the imported meat is falling due to customs, and the prices for sausage, as the Prime Minister said, will not fall. And this delta is going to be sitting right in the pockets of the importers that are going to be enriched. I say that the Government of Nationalists and Socialists is now, in practice, the Government of National Fraud, because today the peasant has 5 bracelets of virtually purchase price in live weight, while gasoline prices have been raised. Mineral fertilizers - raised, spare parts - raised, technology - raised. And they don't say they're destroying practically a peasant. Fourth. This programme of accession to the STO. That's exactly what a national shift program is, before it opens doors, opens everything for the destruction of our manufacturer. What we need to understand today is that, almost today, it's the most frightening thing to do: not answer the question, "What should we do?" We, the Communists, propose that, in order to address this problem, this is the first one, and it is imperative to introduce a moratorium on price increases today. Second. The agro-industry complex and its producer must be fully dated today. And third. Today we have to return the capital from the banks to the producer, i.e. the peasant, to go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u81	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u82	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Dear colleagues! I would ask you not to scream very loudly, but we have to be able to listen to each other. So, my dears, the emotions that are overcrowding the hall today, I think we can only erase them with numbers. Let's talk about figures, not concert-grade approaches, but numbers. The figures indicate that Ukraine will consume 2.1 million tons of meat this year. [[These are professional data.]] This is our inner need. The internal market is capable of producing 1.8 million tons. We have a total deficit of 300,000 tons of meat. If it is not carried, anyone who is crying so loud about prices must clearly understand this deficit will be compensated by an increase in the price. Because in any case, any deficit generates an increase in the price. Based on this logic, it is proposed to compensate the beef deficit by 50,000 tons, by 60,000 tons of pork and by 200,000 tons of birds. Based on this logic, again, there is a great deal of talk about the protection of the domestic producer. The bill proposes that, not the importers' unions and someone else receive those quotas, but that they receive only local producers, domestic meat-combinants who can do so, respected colleagues, well, don't shout so loudly. You're not at the closed bathroom, you're at the session room. Let's move on. With regard to domestic producers, it was discussed that 50 per cent of the funds received from quotas would be provided to support the local producer. And those who asked the question in this room that this money would not reach our citizen, I say, they will come and they will obey the Law. 50 per cent of the amount goes to the Pension Fund. In this sense, I repeat in the numeral language, if there is a desire to engage in politics, one thing, if there is a desire to speak in the numeral language, we need to understand: there is a real deficit, it can be compensated by imports, this imports must be introduced by carnivores, that is, processors and, accordingly, the resource derived from these imports must go to the Pension Fund, on the other hand, to the local producer. Who's "yes" - vote for who's not - keep rallying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u83	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready, nigger. Dear colleagues, I'm making a note, I'm making a note of the national MP Rudzkowski, who's violating the rules of procedure. First, a reply is given when the name of the national deputy, second, is given when the question is concluded. For the time being, please sit down, Ivan Alexandrovich. I emphasize once again, you listen to what I'm saying, not what you want. Ivan Aleksandrovich, microphone, please. Ivan Alexandrovich, no phone, please. That's what you'll say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u84	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Thank God, we're getting close to my proposals that I've made in discussing changes in the customs tariff. I'll remind you of these suggestions. I was talking about what we should be thinking about the competitiveness of a national producer, that we should think not only about overcoming corruption and bribery, but also about creating an internal market of a fully structural economic system. And I was talking about today's need to liberalize trade, especially imports. But at another pole, we have to put in place mechanisms that will protect our manufacturer, which will protect the internal market. And that's the mechanism that's going to be the quota of imports. And once again, I remind and appeal to you people's deputies. A bill on quota imports submitted by deputies from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. And we should be discussing this bill today with this bill that Mrs. Vasuk reported. Otherwise, there is no way out, because the bill clearly states that there should be open trades with quotas, that there should be defined public authorities that care about this issue, that the Cabinet of Ministers should be obliged, by some formula, to calculate these quotas so that we can take into account the potential of our manufacturer and take into account the external situation that we have today in other globalized markets. So today I propose to introduce such a mechanism immediately. I don't understand here those who reject this bill reject the quota mechanism itself. Don't forget that we are going to the European Union today. And remember, although there are huge subsidies in the European Union to support the agricultural producer, the quota mechanism is being applied. And we need to apply it with a view to not being able to tell us that you're making your terms worse. So the position of our nationals in the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party is to adopt an import quota law today and adopt a law on real quotas for certain agricultural products. Otherwise we won't do anything. We should bear in mind the need to ensure competitiveness for a farmer. To do that, when we lower quotas for imports of finished products, we have to lower quotas and agricultural techniques, and thus we will increase the capacity of our peasants to stand up for our offers. So, national MPs, we don't have to play politics here today, we have to save today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u85	Vladimir Cherniak, I can't see. Please, Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u86	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I would like to point out that existing legislation already contains mechanisms for introducing import quotas for animal production. What are we talking about? Yes, the Ukrainian Act on State Arrangements for Imported Agricultural Products of 1997 states, in part of the non-tariff regulation, that, in order to maintain the competitiveness of domestic producers of animal production, the Minister's Office sets annual import quotas, which fall within the definition of the first and second categories of Ukrainian classification of products of external economic activity and is taxed by an import duty at a tax rate equal to or greater than 30 per cent. It also regulates in detail the arrangements for auctions and other provisions related to quota implementation. The project proposes to set import duty rates other than those set by the customs tariff. Thus, the basic requirement of the Ukrainian Tax Scheme Act is violated, according to which the mechanism for tax administration and the collection of compulsory tax benefits cannot be established or amended by other laws other than taxation laws. It provides that changes in tax rates and tax administration mechanisms and compulsory collection cannot be introduced by the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for the corresponding year. The bill is therefore to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u87	Yes, the discussion is over, we will, dear colleagues, be determined. Let's finish the question, finish the question. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005. Registration number 735. [[on support for the production of animal production]] Please vote. [[17:20:40]] For 178. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, People's Party - 22, Socialists - 24, Tymoshenko - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 21 Social Democrats - 12, "One Ukraine" - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 19, industrialists - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 1, "The Union" - 0, non-fractional - 7. [[United]] Write your motives, please. Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Karmazin, follow by Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable national MPs may not have looked at it, but this law says: article nine to complement parts of it. What is the main thing here? Imports are carried out only by meat - processing enterprises solely for the purpose of further processing, that is, by striking so - called speculants who call themselves importers. We extend our hand only to those who produce meat, and we protect our market. So I'm talking to everyone who might not understand today the essence of this simple but very necessary law for Ukraine, who's got maybe some kind of instruction. I'm asking you, consult with your conscience -- whether you're with the people of Ukraine, or if you're going to do something from somewhere outside the state of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u89	Please, Gurenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u91	Microphone, please, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u92	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, the faction of Communists voted in favour, only because, first of all, the possibility of so-called "importers" should be limited, and that is, in fact, those who were involved in the smuggling. Their current government of nationalists and socialists gives them the right to legalize their coming. We vote for people to see for themselves today what they're capable of when they promise in the elections that they're going to take ownership today, that they're going to support their own producer, that they're going to finance the peasant, that they're going to increase the welfare, that they're going to protect national interests. We voted that no one speculated as if because the Supreme Council was preventing prices from falling in the market. That is exactly what will show the true face of those who have come to power. This is anti-national politics and anti-national practices in government activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u93	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u94	Please pass the word to your colleague Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u95	Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! You listened carefully. And from "Our Ukraine" from the faction just ahead of one speaker says, "He who did not support this bill is against the people." Do you think the previous speaker said? Peter Mikolaiovich. before Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko? So, the faction of our Ukraine, we realized that today against the people if we didn't support this faction? Second, I'm sorry, I won't insult you, Peter Mikolaiovich, you've been standing quite opposite in the rostrum, and the faction has voted against you just before the speech. I didn't get it either. And in conclusion, she was speaking with Volina from the Agrarian faction, and today they renamed it, which says that we are only balanced intelligent decisions that we have been proposing for 14 years. But where is the village if your decisions are smart? That's why they changed the agrarian fraction to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, what are we going to do with the law? Who's to it? Replicas after the vote Who, in order to return to the vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 please vote. [[17:25:38]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Thus, the bill is rejected. Yes, dear fellows. Replica is a socialist, and then Simonenko. And Carmazine. Only those who called names. Your name wasn't called Vashuk. Please, who's the socialist? Ivan Boki, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, here one of the speakers, who was used to speaking in a higher tone, was snorkeling about the government of nationalists and socialists. I think this speaker is mixed up in political terms as a well-known character in three pines. If Timoshenko, Kinah, Rybauk are nationalists, our speaker is no different than the proponent and spiritual son of Moon. And if, in fact, the socialists in the government are taking a stand, a sober stand for the protection of a domestic producer, a position for the growth of domestic production, as is evident from the vote of our faction. As for the announcements about the government of nationalists and socialists, they mean one thing: the electoral campaign began, and Moon’s supporters catch people in their nets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u99	Please, Simonenko. He'll be followed by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u100	Simonenko, the Communist faction. In our statement, respected colleagues and respected voters, we have shown what this policy will lead to, namely, the policy of lowering tariffs for foreign, i.e. importers. We have shown how the rights of peasants are being violated, how a final village will be destroyed, to which the Yushchenka Government is essentially preparing, and this is indeed the Government of Nationalists and Socialists, is preparing Ukraine, especially after the guarantees and commitments made by Yushchenko in America. This is confirmed by the project. We have also voted to eliminate speculation that the Supreme Council is not supposed to be able to lower prices in the market. So let's go today and see how much they talk about it. What, did the gas prices go down? Did they lower diesel fuel? Nope. In 2000, the Government of Yushchenko sold all refineries to Russian and other oligarchs. That's why. Government of Nationalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Now there was a challenge, including my address on how to vote. Whoever pushes the button is everyone's business, the conscience of every MP. But I want to tell those who don't understand who sold the oil refineries. Kuchma's regime sold oil refineries, and you know it, and then you supported it, because it was Kuchma's regime that didn't get held accountable, that played with the older brother. Many others played with the older brother at the time. And now I want you to think about it. In January of this year, whose government was it? Yushchenka or Yanukovich? In January of this year, four times as much imported meat was imported as in January of last year. Imagine what is happening. And you're moving everything into Yushchenka today. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u103	So respected colleagues, calmed down, moved on. As we agreed, we now include matters in the order of the day and consider the next chapter that followed. I therefore vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on amendments and additions to articles 26 and 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[concerning the competence and powers of local councils]] Bill number 7161. Please vote. [[17:30:23]] For 233 The question is included. So let's think about it in a simplified way. Please, 3 minutes Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich. Get ready for Orzhachowski. Once again, dear colleagues, we agreed that we are now looking at the chapters on inclusion in the agenda and consideration. It'll come to your next one, and we'll consider it if we don't waste our time. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law on the introduction to articles 26 and 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is based on the fact that, today, in the system of local self-government of villages, villages, cities of Ukraine, there is no legislative regulation on the situation of simultaneous absence from their posts for certain reasons of rural, rural, urban and council. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's adoption of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, it is known that in the event of the suspension of the powers of rural, rural and urban authorities, the Secretary of the relevant Council shall act. In practice, however, Ukraine’s local self - government authorities are not unique in cases where the authority of the Council’s secretary ceases to exist on a yearly basis. The Laws on Local Self - Government, the election of the Secretary of the Rural, Village, City Council are to be carried out exclusively at the plenary meeting of the Council. The law provides that proposals concerning the Secretary’s candidacy shall be made by a village, village or city head only. Thus, today, when the powers of the village, the village, the city’s head and the absence of a secretary of the council are suspended for the term, there is no one to direct the council. Such experiences are not isolated today. We went to a place with a practical, practical view of the work of the Bojar City Council. Today the MPs are sending telegrams from the City Council of Sumu, which has been running for the last five months and can't even hold a meeting. Thus, by this bill, we grant no less than one third of the deputies the right to make a proposal, regarding the Secretary of the relevant council, and thus further, under the law, by secret balloting, as it is now stipulated in the law on local self-government, to choose the relevant secretary who will perform the functions of the city's head. With the city’s head chosen, its functions are terminated. We think it will allow us to address the problem that today is on very many councils, both rural and rural, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u105	Yes. Thank you, sit down. Please, from the Committee of Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u106	Dear Head, national deputies, voters, I bring to your attention that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 13 April this year has considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change and Supplement to Articles 26 and 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on the competence and powers of local councils. Bill 7161, author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Ivancho. For the purpose of the draft Law, the author defined the need for a legislative arrangement for the election of a council secretary in the event of a simultaneous absence from office for certain reasons of rural, rural, urban head and the secretary of the relevant council. It is proposed that, in the absence of a rural, rural, urban head in connection with the suspension of his term of office, the council of the village, the city council, at the suggestion of one third of the deputies from the general composition of the council, elects the secretary of the council. In view of the problems in the functioning of local self-government and with a view to the stability of the councils, the profile committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending and supplementing articles 26 and 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. When considering the first reading, to accept the whole, by deleting the second paragraph of chapter one from the text of the bill, namely, in the first part of article 50, the word "for the term of the mandate of the council to be deleted." Please support the committee's decision on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u107	Thank you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. I think the problem is understood, dear colleagues. Shall we vote? Nice one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, in explanation of vote. You see, here we're talking about what. By the mouth of the committee, that in order to ensure the stability of the work of the councils, it is necessary to enable the Secretary of the Council to work in place of his head. But the question persists in another. We can have a situation where, on the second day, the city head or the village head will be removed, excuse me, the cage will be closed, something else, and the Secretary will be in charge of the entire term of office. Nobody's saying it could be for a month or two. If it were stated in the law that by appointing the secretary and immediately appointing the election of the respective head, that would be understandable. Thus, we turn the concept of democracy and the choice of positions from one foot to another. One is chosen by the people and one is ruled by the other. Thank you. We can't accept that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u109	Vassil Ivanovich, you must have listened to the committee's proposal, where the committee says that it is for the mandate to rule out positions. That is, he will carry out these responsibilities for choosing his head, not for the entire term. We agreed to vote. Carmazine, please. Three minutes, Carmazin, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u110	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, and let the Ukrainian people know that there was a session of the City Council today in the liberated Odessa. Of the 85 deputies present, 74 out of 85 voted in favour of the creation of executive organs, and they worked perfectly, the ones proposed by Odessa’s new mayor, Edward Gurwitz. It's me to keep everyone calm, that everything in Odessa is absolutely calm, even among those deputies who were told that they don't accept Mayor Gurvice. 74 men, I emphasize. And now it's about local self-government, and you understand that, because that's where you have to make changes to the law. I am grateful to the national deputy Ivancho for making these proposals. But I will ask you to accept them only in the first reading. Because I am firmly in favour of accepting part of the first article 50 of the supplement that when a secretary is released in the absence of a village, a village, a city head in connection with the permanent cessation of his authority, a village, a village council or a city council of its own at the suggestion of a third, i.e. not a single man, but a third, is also a minority, which is a loving position, but it is a serious part, a serious guarantee of democracy, of its composition, that the secretary of the council, who works only before the election of the city head, as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk correctly observed today. This is done so that there will be no insolence, first of all, and so that we don't spend all the time and get into a road situation, because the secretary of the law just proposed the Head, and when the Head is gone, there's no one to offer. Therefore, Ivancho suggests that a third of the deputies should initiate and thus replace the head as the subject of the proposal. Isn't that democratic? It's totally democratic. And let's agree to that and let's take it. I don't understand why they're saying that this is a machine to remove urban heads and so on. No, the removal mechanism is one -- if they do not implement the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. This mechanism is then included, including the one that was included in the city of Odessa, which is now freed from all bandits. The court is now in session. I think it's going to be normal, too. Thank you for your attention, please accept Mr. Ivancho's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, let us listen to the voice of renowned lawyer Yuri Karmazin and vote. I stress once again, I'm putting to the vote a proposal by the committee on the adoption of the law as a basis and in general with the deletion of the sentence "for the term of the council." It's off-limits. Therefore, I ask you to vote with this deletion. [[17:41:21]] For 241 Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Your point is to include in the agenda and consider the question of the draft Order marking the 85th anniversary of the celebrated pilot, three times the hero of the Soviet Union, John Mikitovich Kožedub. Registration number 7080. I'll give you a vote, ladies. [[17:42:10]] For 255 Dear colleagues, I think it's clear. Let's vote on the verdict. I'm voting for the decree on the 85th birthday anniversary of the celebrated pilot, three times the Hero of the Soviet Union, John Mikitovich Kožeduba, registration number 7080. Please vote. [[17:42:45.]] For 282 It's an order. Well, please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 17, Communist faction - 56, "Ukrainian Regions" - 48, National Party - 24, SPU - 28, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 8, UNP - 9, SDPU - 22, "Only Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, SPTU - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, "Union" - 10, "Prefaction - 8. Please turn on the Night's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u112	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency. Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word, but I'm in favour of a previous bill that you didn't give me your word. I've made a warning, and I'll stand by, and I have the right to make a change. Today you have created a conflict between the head and the secretary. The head of the village council cannot choose a secretary with whom he must act conscientiously in accordance with the law of authority. What the reporter said and what's written in the law is different things. There is no written position that the secretary chooses to choose his head. This will create a conflict in the village council. [[rural]] I ask you not to violate my right to work on the laws anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u113	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich, you may have heard a little bit about what was going on. No one's breaking anything. No secretary can be elected to the head because the head, or rather, the mayor of the city chooses the people in the election immediately and the council chooses. After that, he gathers and chooses his secretary. So first the head is chosen and then the secretary is elected. It's just as you wanted it to be. Dear colleagues, I would like to consider: the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the issue: the draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Heads of State of Parliament and Government of the former Soviet Union. Bill number 7171. Please vote. [[17:45:24]] For 178. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions 3 - 41, People's Party - 2, Socialist Party - 23, Timoshenko and Ukrainian People's Party - Zero, Social Democrats - 16, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Deminicatives" - 7, "Union" - 1, "Postfactional" - 3. Simonnka's microphone, please, as the author of the decree. He is the author of the project, he has the right to speak and argue. Don't scream! It's your decision, you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u114	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention. Maybe someone didn't understand what this is about, but this is a reference to the leaders of the states in relation to the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. We, the Supreme Council, there are three sentences of this appeal alone, asking the leaders to hold a joint victory parade, because there was a common victory for our peoples, so that they could join together and unify this victory parade for the 60th anniversary of May 9, and that's what we're addressing them with. So I'd like to ask Adam Ivanovich, maybe someone didn't understand, if there's a good will, then put it to the vote again: include or not include, and then it'll be finally understood who's taking the political stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u115	Please sign up, three minutes, with a motive. It's written down there, and yet we're motivated. Please explain. Insomnia. He's got Polit behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u117	Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u118	Thank you very much, colleague Bezlogo. And, dear colleagues, I'd like to say the same thing, including the authors of this project. We understand very well, you know our position as we honor the participants in World War II, the defenders of our land, and I would like that on this subject -- the theme of the anniversary of the end of war, the collapse of fascism -- not to make such a pear, not to separate the nations. It seems to me that it would be more clear to our Parliament if we were to look to the leadership of the independent countries that emerged in the post-Radians space, on other issues that are equally relevant and painful to people. I think it would be very good if we went to Russia's leadership first and foremost to help resolve issues, including deportations, which are the result of World War II.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u119	Please, Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u120	Andrew Politt, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u121	Please, Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u122	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that there are two bills in the agenda. One is a call to the heads of states of the former USSR, and the other to our fellow deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, district, district, and so on. But the problem is one. We are ahead of the age-old event of the 60s of the Great Victory over Fascism. This is not just an event of a general Ukrainian scale, not just a Soviet, the scale of the Soviet Union, but a global event. So I would very much ask a colleague, the committee supported both the bill and the other bill, to put it into the agenda, to consider and accept these two references. They are very timely in connection with this age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u123	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u124	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear friends! I'd like that. So that we can throw away our emotions here, some political views, and think about it. With their shoulders they fought for victory and the Russians, and the Ukrainians, the Gurins and the Chechens, the Molds, the Belarusians, all fighting for one victory, all fighting for one power. And today, all those who have had a good time in war have found it very difficult and incomprehensible to understand what is happening today. Why do the sections arise, why borders have arisen, why we begin to share a single story, a single destiny. And I think that if these people in the 60s had lived through this holiday in one way, remembering all that was given to them for this victory, I don't think there would have been anything in this shop and against any party views. I think this bill needs support. As the leaders of States will say, it is their right, as they will say, to say, to the political forces and movements of those parties, that is their right. But such an initiative, I think, deserves attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u125	Thank you. Who would like to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Heads of State of Parliament and Government of the former Soviet Union, please vote. [[Registration number 7171]] [[17:51:12]] For the 220. The factions. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 56, Ukraine - 46, National Party - 3, Socialist - 27, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 22, Ukraine - 10, Democratic Ukraine - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, Union - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 8, non-fractional - 6. I'm betting on getting in the day-to-day. We've done this as an author. I'm referring to the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, city, district, village and rural councils, on the occasion of preparing and marking the 60th anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War of the 41st to 45th years, registration number 7286. Please vote. [[17:52:38]] For 246 It's on. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 47, People's Party - 26, Socialist Party - 27, Block of Timoshenko and Ukrainian People's Party - Zero, Social-Democratic Party - 21, "One Ukraine" - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 12, Deminitive - 13, "Soyuz" - 11, non-fractional - 4. [[united]] Dear colleagues, let's take the project, let's take a decision, refer to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, city, district, village, village councils and so on. Please vote, vote. [[17:53:38]] For 246 Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we made the right decision. But what we accept is not right: Which are deleted or which are added to the decision. This decree is intended to preserve and honor the memory of the defenders of the homeland, to restore the destroyed monuments, but in paragraph 2, which states: "return to the streets and other objects of names that have been renamed in recent years for political reasons, as is the case with political exertion", must be removed, Adam Ivanovich. This is what separates the country today, what separates it, must be cleaned out of our lives. And leave only what unites the country and serves for peace and tranquillity in the state. That's why I voted in favour, but let's delete this point because it's not good. We appeal to local councillors and, at the same time, accuse them of having changed their name. One day it's not good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let go of your hands. You are right, but our decision is a recommendation for local councils to come back and consider this decision. We do not necessarily have to accept them the way we want them to. Each session will be determined according to the established law. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Ordinance on Hearing the Information of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the state of implementation of Ukrainian pension legislation during January-March 2005. [[Registration number 7152]] Please vote. [[17:55:54]] For 214 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0; Communists - 56; "Ukraine" - 46; People's Party - 21; Socialists. Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian People's Party - 0; Social-Democratic Party - 22; "One Ukraine" - 9; "Democratic Ukraine - 19; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12; "Democratic Initiatives" - 14; "Union" - 11; non-fractional - 4. Ladies and gentlemen, be my guest. Three minutes. Please sign up. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, faction of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now invited to hear information from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the state of implementation of pension legislation during January-March. That is, at a time when neither this minister nor this government was in power. Is that wise? That's probably foolish. That's why we can't vote for it. I call on the people's deputies, there is now a well-balanced pension policy. Apart from the fact that there has been no pension adjustment for military personnel who have been retired for various years, we have retired, and justice has not yet been restored, and the State Budget Act has not evenled this out, because there is not yet, there is no resource, we need to find it. There is no need for such information right now, for it is precisely the predicted times when the same minister did not serve in his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u129	Please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction. The flood is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u130	The Communist faction, the city of Harikov, Alexandrovskaya. Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich. I believe that we must go back to re-voting this issue. There is a great deal of voter turnout on the issue of retirement. The people now received a pension in April, which they were told was recalculated on the basis of recent decisions, including the Supreme Council. People don't understand that amount. Pension funds cannot explain the calculation method. No methodical guidance is available to humans. These amounts cannot be confirmed by any normative instruments. Everyone wonders: How should the pension actually count today, how should these indemnities be reimbursed for January, February and March? It is therefore very important for the Minister in this room to answer the questions of the deputies so that all Ukrainians will hear what is happening to the solution. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, let us return to this issue and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u131	Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The "Regions of Ukraine", Potapov. Dear colleagues, the agenda provides information. I don't understand my colleagues, too, when the new government claimed, let's say, popularity, one of the main issues was transparency. What is bad is that the Ministry will inform the people's deputies today, along with the people's deputies and Ukraine, of the situation that has taken place today in the pension system. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that. This is when we hear opposition to these kinds of initiatives, it's like something's not so clear and not so transparent. And I think anyone who objects to this information is probably somewhere cunning and secretive. I think we should talk about this to the population today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to return to the issue of inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Ordinance on Hearing Information from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the state of implementation of Ukrainian pension legislation during January-March 2005, registration number 7152, please vote. [[18:00:55]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 40, People's Party - 25, Socialists, Timoshenko Block, Ukrainian People's Party - Zero, Social-Democratic Party - 19, "One Ukraine" - 9, Democratic Ukraine - 19, industrialists - 12, Dem. Initiatives - 12, "The Union" - 12, non-fractional - 4. [[United]] Dear colleagues, be careful! Dear colleagues, listen, please. Dear colleagues, I continued for 15 minutes. You may not have noticed. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. We need to solve one issue that affects the interests of schoolchildren. The point is: An international competition is being held in the Ukrainian language of Peter Yatzik. Each year, in May, 27 of the best schoolchildren are awarded a prize. And from this bonus, unfortunately, they count the tax on the students. These taxes are about 5,000 dollars or 10,000 dollars for the budget. But according to the law, it is unfortunately necessary to deduct taxes from any income, so I suggest that you and I now include in the agenda and adopt the law of Ukraine amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Natural Persons. I'll read here two sentences: "Paragraph 4.3.5, Section 4.3 of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, to supplement sub-paragraph "D" with this content: "The sum of the funds that are paid annually to the winners of the international competition in the Ukrainian language. [["Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2003, No. 37]] Petra Yatzika." And secondly, "This law takes effect from the day it was published." This is registration number 7398, for inclusion in the agenda and review. Please vote. [[18:03:39]] For 359 We've put it into the agenda. Thank you. 359. I ask you to vote for the law as a whole as a law, and I read it to you. It concerns voting: the adoption as a whole of the Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax, registration number 7398. Please vote. [[18:04:16]] For 359 The law is passed. The factions, please. The author of the law is Richterov. "Our Ukraine" - 74, communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 22, Socialists - 25, Block Timoshenko - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, Social-Democratic Party - 22, "One Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 12, "Union" - 12, "Prefactional" - 9. [[united]] Yes, dear colleagues, we have another 10 minutes. She'll give her personal thanks. Dear colleagues, we have 10 minutes. Let's try to think about it. We have a short-term draft law amending the Ukrainian law on State support for agriculture in Ukraine to increase the employment rate of the rural population. This is 7034, 7034-1. Catherine Vaschuk will be reported. I can't see. Then Kuzmenko Peter Pavlovich, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On June 24, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law on State support for agriculture in Ukraine. According to article 18, paragraph 5, of the Act, it has been prohibited since 1 January 2005 to extend the rules of the law on off-the-shelf transactions in external economic relations to goods that fall within the definition of 1 and 24 of the group of UCTZet, which has led to the halting of dozens of enterprises in the territory of the State that specialize in donor raw materials operations. In contrast, specialized enterprises were completely shut down, and a large number of enterprises reduced production volumes. Especially many of these businesses in the border areas of Ukraine, including east and west, that imported raw materials from abroad and exported finished products abroad. Bill No. 7034 of 02.02.2005, which was to regulate the problem, was submitted by the Vaszuk and Teryohinim National Deputies. But the rules of the specified law, which were established that production should have been exported abroad within 30 calendar days from the date of completion of the clearance procedure, are technically impossible because the production cycle cannot be completed within such a period. So I filed Bill 7034-1 of 28.02. In 2005, which was proposed to repeal the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine, which prohibited imports into Ukraine from January 1st, 1st and 24th. But in view of the fact that the drafters of Bill 7034 have agreed to change the 30 days to 90 days, I ask that I vote in favour of Law 7-34 as a whole, as a law, and mine be removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u135	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill 7034 will report to Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, this bill is made up of one paragraph, it is identical to a colleague, when we considered this bill at the Committee, we decided to unify them. And we accept his offer, which is that 30 days of calendar raw material is not enough. What happened? In the Law on Taxation Operations in External Economic Relations, we have extended this to a group of 1.24 goods that fall within the definition of not going as a donor and we have about 100 enterprises. This law provides for the granting of permission to work for companies on the donor raw material, provided that it is used for the production of finished products, which is completely exported outside the customs border of Ukraine within a period not exceeding that, we accept the amendment of a colleague, 90 calendar days following the day of the closure of the clearance procedure. This rule is extended to transactions involving excise duty and excise ready - to - produce. I mean, it's very important. We actually have about a hundred thousand jobs that may not work for months when we don't allow it. We're correcting the mistake we've made. The Committee on Finance and Banking recommends that this law be adopted as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u137	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please turn on Karmazin's microphone. From the place, yes, please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u138	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Catherine Timothy, I am pleased that you have acknowledged the mistake you have made. Because when I'm always talking, let's see if the laws are compatible or not, and the Tax Transactions Act says one thing, what you're talking about right now, and another Law on State Support for Agriculture says another. So that's exactly what you're proposing for settlement right now. Thank you for doing this. I want to say that I specifically received such a request. For example. The Yellow Employment Centre of the Mikolai district reports that the people who were released in connection with the non-working situation were paid to 202 people in February/month for $55,000. That's right. It's one company at a time. And you call these companies a hundred. I think there's got to be some way to write it down here, or the government's commission in transitional situations, which is the rule, which is the rule, and it's written down, it doesn't extend to transactions with sub-taxation tax materials, but that's completely out of line to ensure that the mechanism of what's being exported is beyond customs control. That's the first one. And the second. There is such a false thing that contradicts the Constitution that the law takes 30 calendar days from its official publication. Katerina Timofievna, I don't know if this is a mistake or why you haven't spoken? You got it, didn't you? If taken, thank you, it should be written there - from the day of official publication, as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, otherwise it is a wrong decision. I understand you've been filmed. I'd like to ask the government for a protocol order to ensure that this product is fully exported outside the customs border of Ukraine. And in that way, that law is needed, and it will not destroy our national producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u139	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, microphone, one minute, Mironenko Victor and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u140	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukraine. I will support the draft law on first reading, which declares a good purpose, by increasing the employment rate of the population of Ukraine through Danish raw materials. But I would like to ask the drafters of the bill: what prevents you, distinguished authors, from supporting the demand of Ukraine's Compatriot for a systematic, integrated solution to the elimination of unemployment, economic growth? Why do you not support our proposals for the recovery of public banks that have invested industry, agriculture at an affordable rate, why have you opposed our demands not to destroy agriculture, and now that they have destroyed agriculture, you have provided terrible unemployment, you are introducing such bills? I insist that, if you think about agriculture, industry, the population, the elimination of unemployment, you support the offer of the Company of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, wait! What procedure? We have a minute to vote. Dear colleagues, I propose to support the decision of the committee of profile. Here Catherine Timothy reported it to you. Yuri Anatolyevich, be careful, I'll read it, that's exactly what you're talking about. The committee proposes to adopt the whole Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture in order to increase the employment rate of the rural population, registration number 77034, by introducing a bill with the authors and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to increase from 30 to 90 days the deadline for the export of finished products outside the customs territory of Ukraine and the introduction of this law from the date of its publication. Please vote. [[18:15:12]] For 175 The factions. Our Ukraine is 4, the Communists are 53, the Ukrainian regions are 0, the People's Party is 25, the Socialists are 20, the Block of Timoshenko is 2, the Ukrainian People's Party is 8, the Social Democrats is 0, the only Ukraine is 14, the Democratic Ukraine is 19, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 6, the Democratic Initiative is 14, the Union is 4, the Non-Factional is 6. Yes, dear colleagues, the law is not adopted, rejected, unfortunately. 18.15, so we have every reason to declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Tomorrow, my fellow Members, I warn you that after questioning, we will hear from the Minister of Finance and Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, and then we will consider bills that we have not considered in our second reading today. Good luck.
