ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, guests, invited and journalists. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[10:02:42]] There were 411 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today we have the birthdays of Boyk Viktor Alexiyovich, Galius Ernest Eduardoovich and Francis Igor Anatoliyovich. They're all very young and very promising. Let's welcome them with this day. Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council in plenary meetings on July 5. Seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result, one law in general and four decrees were adopted. We'll hope that you and I will work for a much more productive day. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of the MPs and groups are kindly requested to apply. And I'm about to move on to the MP's questions. But before that, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Resnik Igor Josephovich into the National Party faction. [[Applause]] And in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Didenko Jury Volodymyrovich into the faction "Our Ukraine". [[Applause]] People's MPs asked: Vladimir LESCHENKA to the President of Ukraine for action by the executive branch to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs in Ukraine. Please support the parliamentary request to the President. [[10:05:43]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Victor ANTEMUCA to the President of Ukraine for the liquidation of the Wynnick Faculty of Distance Education at the National Academy of State Taxation. Please vote in favour of request. [[10:06:12]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine for the exacerbation of interfaith conflicts in Ukraine and the actions of law enforcement authorities and local authorities regarding the religious communities of the village of Rohmanov in the Ternopil region. [[COLONIANS, PEACE, POLITICALS, AND OTHERS]] Please vote in favour of the parliamentary request by a group of national deputies. Vote. [[10:06:52]] For a hundred and Decision taken. It's early on the factions. Please vote in favour of sending a parliamentary request to the President. It takes 226 votes. Please vote. [[10:07:18]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist faction - 56, "Ukrainian Regions" - 42, National Party - 18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 22, NPP - 0, "Ukrainian One" - 6, SDPU - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, SPTU - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Prefaction 4. Igor KALICKEN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the liquidation of the Vinnick Faculty of the National Academy of Taxation. JANUARY to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Constitution of the Constitution in connection with the failure to exercise the powers provided for in the Constitution in respect of the observance of the Constitution, the laws and ethics of the civil servant by the People’s Deputy, Vasil Onopen. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District Council on the measures taken to preserve and restore the national monument – the Legendary Touchanka complex in Kahouka. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information to confirm the submission to the Supreme Council of a personal statement by national deputy Eugene Zovtjak on the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers immediately after his appointment as Head of the Kyiv District Administration, which he stated in the “Inter” television channel on June 30, 2005. TO THE head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir NICHIPREH to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the early death of the Plužnikov People’s Deputy. Michael RADIO to the Head of the Supreme Council, Attorney General for the election of the People's Deputy Alexander Morozov as Head of the VAT Government “State Savings Bank”. Igor KALICKEN to the Head of the Supreme Council regarding the harassment of the head of the Trieste district council of the chief physician of the district hospital. MICHAEL APPROVED to the Head of the Supreme Council for information on receiving information from the People’s Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine IV about the convening of apartments or a one - time financial compensation for the creation of adequate housing conditions. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, for the provision of housing for members of the armed forces of Ukraine. Andrija DERKAČA to the Prime Minister for the improper execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of the decision of the Court on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of safety and health of the environment and environmental security of the environment and the provision of nuclear and radiation safety. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy and Labour, Minister of Finance for Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Mr. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Prime Minister on the integration of the characteristics of the Zacarpathian region into the development of administrative and territorial reform. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the State Eastern Centre for Health, Occupational and Social Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister on the collective appeal of public associations for diabetes to increase the production of Glucophot-II domestic appliances and restrictions on imports that are much more expensive to use. SERGEANT DRUGUNCHOVA to the Prime Minister on the aims of bringing together the Scientific Research Institute and the Ukrainian Academy of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Economics. Bogdan GUBSKI to the Prime Minister for the transfer of the property complex to the Cherka district hospital of the Great Homeland War. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds provided for in the State Budget for the completion of the construction of the general education school in the village of Kalinjka in the region of Korak, in the region of Ravenna. The aunts of ZATH to the Prime Minister for the financing of the removal of the effects of submerged sites in Zaporozhye region. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister for failure to provide the Kiev City Head with information on the availability or lack of ecological expertise in the construction of a commercial entertainment complex in the territory of the Soviet Nature Fair in Kiev. MICHELLE NOSHENKA to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in preparation for work during the fall-winter period, the village of the town-type Svess of the area of the Sumli district. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Prime Minister for the unwarranted reduction of the purchase price of milk for the producers of the Krolevetsky district of Glukhovsky, Koropski and Shastkinian milk processing enterprises in the Suma region. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of pensioners' homes in the village of Nagalčík of the Lugansk region. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for Legalization of Illegal Developments of Coal Layers that Come to the Surface in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in the Zavali district of the Heivoron district of Kyrovograd. Ally ALEKSANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister in connection with the failure to respond in essence to a request for the repayment of the arrears on the salaries of employees of the State Enterprise Malisheva. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister on violations of legislation in the purchase of milk in the population of the Cherka region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the lack of funding for the investment projects provided by the State budget. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the reconstruction of the destroyed school in the village of Grabovci in the province of Vinnitz, and for the establishment and accountability of the perpetrators of the crime. Andria POLITA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the western areas of Kirovograd. Anatolia PALIGARY to the Prime Minister regarding the unjustified increase in quarterly rates in the city of Jenakiyev. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Prime Minister for the delay in payment of salaries to the Mustang Group of the Sumi Road Transport Company. Petra KUZYMENKA and Sergija JUSTDENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market on the involvement of officials whose actions impeded the normal operation of VAT “Cherkasigaz” and caused damage to the enterprise and the state. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund, on the situation that took place at the Pregonov sugar plant in Kirovograd. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for non-response to the MP's request for the order of publication, the introduction into circulation and the organization of the distribution of postage stamps. A group of national MPs to the Prime Minister on improving the living conditions of families affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in accordance with the legislation and numerous mandates of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the members of the Government concerning them. [[RADIO, MANCHULENCO, JJDJIK AND OTHERS]] Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the preservation of the integrity of the property complex of the Debechin sugar plant in the Chargord district of Winnitsky. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister for the liquidation of the Administration of the State Commission from securities and stock market in Kiev and Kiev. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for the introduction of unknown poisons into the villages of the village of Arteliarchy in the Zynkowski region of Poltava. Anatoly by ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the legality of the intention to close the Horlova Agricultural Technical School in Hersonian. Mr Mikoli NOSENKA to the Prime Minister on the financial situation and the future share of the oil and gas engineering plant in the town of Bachmach Chernigiv district. Mr. Andria POLIETA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration, on obstacles to the work of Zaporozhye District Centre for Youth and Students. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Prime Minister on material assistance for children of many children, living in the Mid-Bundes district of Suma. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister on strengthening the social protection of the families of deceased military personnel involved in hostilities in Afghanistan. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Attorney General, on the cessation of the destruction of the unique State-owned research farm “Sadow” in the area of Artemov. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister for the return to practical implementation of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the 100th anniversary of Boris Gmiri, which was deliberately destroyed by former Deputy Prime Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Dmitr Tobacconik. Anatolia KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the repair of multi-floor dwellings in the Pervomayi district of Mikolaiiv. VICTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT to the Prime Minister for the provision of a list of objects to be financed in 2005 on the basis of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the socio-economic development of regions in the 69th constituency of the Žitomir region. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board on violations of legislation during the conduct of the State Registration of VAT “Sanatorium “Psyel”, located in the village of the city type Velika Bogachka Poltawska District. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the granting of the status of disabled persons of the Great Homeland War to the inhabitants of the city of Lucca. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister, Attorney General for the ecologically hazardous activities of the Polysynthesis stock company Organika Lviv Region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, on the implementation of State programmes to combat diseases of mass distribution and ensure proper funding for the implementation of the programmes in Odessa and Odessa. [[CARMASINE, BICHKOV, AKIRKO, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Mikikoli Sokirko to the Prime Minister for not receiving a response to the inquiry into the conflict situation, with the participation of the deputy head of the Department of Human Resources and Staff of the Cabinet of Ministers. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the villages of Yakushinzi and Zarwanci of the Winnick district of Winnick. VALLERY TO THE prime minister on dissatisfaction with the SBA’s response to the MP’s appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers. Tamara PRIVATE to the Prime Minister for the provision of funds for the repair and acquisition of equipment for the Ternopol preschool institution No.5. Petra TLOČKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenka on the impossibility of rebuilding the medieval castle in Lviv. The Minister of Justice for the Legal Assessment of the Regulations of the “Memorandum on Cooperation between Television Companies and the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting for the Construction of the National Information Space”. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for failure to take effective action and for failure to give a reasoned answer to a parliamentary appeal on the Dubovik and other issues. TO THE Attorney - General’s Office, Boris is responsible for violating the rights and interests of Kiev’s residents in the landowner’s office for the construction of new buildings. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the actions of officials of the open-ended Kyiv Construction and Installation Train “Schlakhbud, ” which contains signs of crime. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General on the signs of corruption and the abuse of power in the issuance of the order of the Chief Labour Administration and Social Protection of the Provincial District Administration of December 4, 2005. Andrew SCHOOL to the Attorney General, Head of the Board for the mass disappearance of documents from the Central State Historical Archive funds in Lviv. Vassila GORBAL to the Attorney General on the rightfulness of the inclusion in the receipt for the payment of municipal services of the amount of debt written down by the court. Valery YEDOKIMOVA to the Attorney General on the abuse of the Director-General, the chief physician of the Kurpati sanatorium. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General for the violation of legislation in the release of the chief editor of the Brusilov district newspaper of the Zitomir district of Philonenko. JOURIA BOYKA to the Attorney General for the prosecution of the priest of the Ukrainian Autokefal Orthodox Church of the city of Tsurupinsk and the restoration of its constitutional rights. Vassila GAVRILUKA to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of the judge of the Bologna District Court of Kyiv Volika. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the prosecution of criminal proceedings. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Attorney General for an improper examination of a parliamentary request. Vassil GAVRILUKA to the Attorney-General on the illegal actions of a group of persons for the purpose of unlawful occupation of VAT “Mode”. The U.S. Attorney General's Jury on the absence of a response to the Ukrainian President's mandate to take action to protect the interests of the State and the colleagues of the Ukrainian Research Institute of Paper. Valeria ASADCHEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources on the legality of land collection and the removal of green plantings on the streets of Chernobyl and the activities of the Ecobud Society. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for the reduction of production capacity, abuse of officials of VAT “Kahovka” and limited liability associations “Ukrpromexim”. Igora NASALICA to the Attorney General for the verification of the municipality of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv district. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General for infringement of the property rights of creative communities. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General, Minister of Culture and Tourism concerning the illegal sale of the library in Lviv. Ms. Vladimir NOVACA to the Attorney General for an unobjective assessment of the legality of the decision of the session of the village council of Lisovogrinjetsk, the district attorney’s office. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on the grounds that he failed to take action by the prosecutor against the unlawful conduct of local farm management in relation to farmers living in the city of Borislav of Hersson. Petra KUZYMENKA and Sergey JUSTICE to the Attorney General for the violation by the Sosnov District Court of Cherkasa of legislation in the case concerning the operation of VAT “Cherkasigaz”. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Health, for the violation of the requirements of legislation that harm the lives and health of the inhabitants of Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General on the misconduct of the owners of the private enterprise “Conflict-South”. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the illegal sale of the core funds and property of a strategically important enterprise – the Hmelnica factory Prigma-Press. [[OLUIKO, CHICAL, NOVAK, AND OTHERS]] MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General for ignoring the request of the National Deputy and the inaction of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the area of self - government in the village of Solomonovo, Uzhgrad district of Zakarpatsk. Anatolya RACHANSIAH to the Attorney General, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve on the Responsibility of Officials who Did Not Provide Population During the Summer Prepared Period of 2005, the possibility of buying sugar at affordable prices. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, the head of the Board, on the facts of the involvement of the head of the Lviv District Administration in bribery and corruption, according to information published by Lviv businessman Bogdan Fedorishin. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on non-response to the MP's request to comply with the law of the officials of the Procurator's Office of the Holy District of Kiev. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General for protesting the decision of the Kaniv District Council of October 22, 2004 to remove the Kanów Central District Hospital Corps, eliminate the settlement of the pharmacy, and transfer these premises to a group of persons. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the directors of the law enforcement agencies of Cherkasa regarding the private entrepreneur Gladko. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Head of the Chernigian Ombudsman for the Prevention of the Destruction of the House in Shevchenko Street in the City of Nizhin Chernigiv district, and the Invocation of the responsibility of the City Council and the Municipal Services for Inaction. Vladimir ZAJIJA and Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs on the groundlessness of the accusations of secession of participants in the All - Ukrainian Congress of Deputies, held in the city of the North London Luhansk region on November 28, 2004. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, Minister of Defense on the abuse of office and the purposeless use of the housing allocated to the construction of a residence for military personnel in the city of Lviv, by the head of the State Enterprise “Ukrkkonvers”. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Attorney-General on compliance with the requirements of legislation after the liquidation of the “Bilšovnik” CZP of the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on violations of the law in the course of the investigation by the Prosecutor General's Office of the criminal case concerning the charge of the head of the Luhansk District Council for committing a crime. [[KYSELOV, PREPARATION, HARPHECK AND OTHERS]] Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General for the termination of payment of insurance contributions to the Pension Fund by the Char Action Company of the city of Sverdlovsk Lugansk Region. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney General for the Legality of Building Housing on the site of the destroyed fruit garden of boarding school on the street of the Radhni town of Kyiv. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the prosecutor of the Turupin district of the Hersonian region regarding the verification of the abuse of office as the head of the Stepov cooperative. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health, regarding the violation by the Chief Doctor of the Dnipropetrov Hospital of the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Other Atomic Materials. Mr. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Attorney-General on the violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of a citizen, criminal and procedural legislation, the creation of an organized criminal group by law enforcement officials. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on the illegality of the law enforcement authorities and the inappropriate response to requests by members of the people for violations of the law by the management of the VAT “Energy-supply company” Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister for Youth and Sports, Odessa City Head for the illegal privatization of residential buildings and the unlawful alienation of land in the territory of the “Ukraine” sanatorium in Odessa, the establishment of a boxing museum under the programme “Physical education – the health of the nation”, approved by the Presidential Decree. FIXA to the Minister of Defense on violation of the rights of residents of House No.17-B on Mate Zalka Street in Simferopol. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Culture and Tourism concerning the provision of assistance to the folklore group “Irsava”. Georgia BUIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the violation of legislation by the State Shareholder Company “National Network of auction centres”. Ms. Oleg KARATUMANOVA to the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economics, for the financing of the construction of the gas pipeline in the city of Lubotin Kharkiv district. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the situation surrounding the therapeutic station at Kharkiv Road Clinic. ROBERT to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the conduct of the examination of the facts set out in the address of a citizen of Philathova. Mr. Leonida Kadenjuka to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute the decision of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev. Mr. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Minister of Defence, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence concerning the violation of legislation in his capacity as head of the National Defence Academy of Ukraine. The OBJECT Jury to the Minister of Internal Affairs for Unlawful and Corruption by the Inspectors of the State Autoinspectors of the Obolonian Regional Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev during the investigation of road traffic. Mr. Vladimir PETREN to the minister of internal affairs regarding the gravity of the investigation of a murder case. Ms. Alexander VASILEVA to the Minister of Finance for the financing of the Early Social Rehabilitation Centre for Disabled Children in the city of Avdivka from the State Budget. RUCA’S Jury to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the provision of a disabled car with manual control. Kirila POLIŠKUKA to the minister of internal affairs on the grounds of the unwillingness of law enforcement authorities to investigate the kidnapping of rewards from the apartment of Hero of Sikorsky Ukraine. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, on violations of the constitutional rights of citizens by law enforcement officials in Zaporozhye. MIKOJANKOVSKI to the minister for youth and sports in the sports and football fields in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Olga HINZBURG to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Commissioner for Human Rights for Retirement to a former employee of internal affairs, a resident of the town of Six Sumsk. GREGORY OF THE CALETIAN to the Minister of Education and Science, the head of the VAT Government of the “Scartelek” regarding the non-derogation of the activity of the Vinické private gymnasium “Delphine” and the violations by the management of the Winnické branch of VAT “Scartelek”. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Minister of Environmental Protection for the delay of the Ministry’s officials from enforcing the Office of the Attorney - General’s Office’s order to cancel a special permit for the use of the Stalinest plaster. Istwana HYDOS to the Minister of Education and Science for the Elimination of the Education Department in the Behegiv district of Zakarpat. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Minister of Environmental Protection for granting permission to the “East” of Luhansk region to use the nadrama to extract mineral treatment water. Vladimir Paka to the minister of internal affairs regarding the threats to the life and health of the final citizen who took place in the village of Bogdanovka in the Brovarsky district of Kyiv. THE Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington, D.C., for the creation of a monument to an outstanding philosopher, Gregory Skovorodi, made at the expense of the U.S. and Canada’s diaspora. Anatolia KZLOVSKI to the Ministry of Health regarding the unsatisfying state of the health facilities of the Mikolai region. Stepan DAVIMUKI and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the abuse of the service by employees of the internal affairs administration of the City of Shakhtar, Donetsk. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Tax Administration on the facts of tax evasion on a particularly large scale and the deliberate bankruptcy of VAT, the “Action Company of Viniciablanergo”. Vladimir BRONNIKOV to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney-General, the Head of the BSB regarding the seizure of the utilities of the city of Energodar and the threat posed to the security of the Zaporez nuclear station. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the delay in criminal investigation into the fact that the budget has been disbursed on a particularly large scale in the purchase of premises for the Lviv Regional Employment Centre. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Head of the Judicial Reform Commission, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board on the facts of the involvement of the Secretary of the Judicial Reform Commission, the Adviser to the National Security Council and the Defence of Valery Yvchenk in criminal activity and the appropriateness of his occupation. Mikoli Komara to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights on the violation of the constitutional right of employees of the Ukrainian State Institute of Glass, Autosklo and Tehbudsklo to pay for the work at the right time. Jury KRIVORCHKA to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for violations of the law on advertising and language legislation in the city. Victor Tarana to the Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the Ordering of the Village of Pavlish, the home of the famous Ukrainian teacher Vasil Sukhmlinski. [[TERRITO]] Vladimir Paka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the completion of the gasification of the villages of the Biloczerk district’s Correctional Salad. Michael DOBKIN to the Head of the High Council of Justice regarding the ignoring of a parliamentary appeal by the head of the qualified committee of judges of the general courts of the Odessa District of Appeal, Melniczuk. Alexander HUDIM to the Head of the State Tax Administration, the Attorney General, on the violation of legislation by the management of the Lviv City Municipal Enterprise “L v i t i t i p l o n e r s e s”. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Head of the High Council of Justice for the purpose of bringing the head of the Zaporez Court of Appeal to justice. Leonida KADENJUKA to the Head of the Chernobyl State Administration on the gravity of the issue of setting up a disabled phone and a group of residents of the village of Michalkovo Sokirian district. Valeria ASADCHEVA to the Kiev City Head, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, for the cancellation of the decision of 24 April 2003 on the granting and removal of land for construction. Anatoly OF DOMANS to the Head of the Righteous District Administration of Kiev regarding the provision of family housing for a veteran of the military service. Vasil BARTKIVA to the Head of the Government of the State Shareholder Company “Breath of Ukraine”, Head of the Suma District Administration for the Protection of Labour Rights of Workers of the Child Company of the State Shareholder Company “Breath of Ukraine” “Burinian Elevator” and to prevent the destruction of the enterprise. JOURNEY RUCA to the Head of the State Property Fund regarding the property of the rest base of the Ishmael Gas Farm. Jury KROWROČKA to the Head of the Board for the removal of the symbols of the totalitarian Soviet regime and the inscription in the non - state language for the Odessa area’s BSS. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the removal of residents from the monastery of the “Chinese Desert Skie”. John MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Public Administration for violating the authorities of the city of Colomia and the area of the Cultural Heritage Act and the Supreme Council Order on the 60th anniversary of the Victory of the Soviet People in the Great Nativity War of 1941-1945. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Head of the Cherka District State Administration for the provision of hot water to the “Dniprovsk” city of Cherkasa. TO THE Head of the Board of Directors, the Attorney General, concerning the circumstances of the early death of the Plužnik People’s Deputy. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Head of the State Tax Administration for the Disengagement of a Light Car to the Teterian Children’s Home of the Zitomir Region. Eugen HYRNIKA to the Head of the State Road Service on the allocation of funds for the repair of the road to the Holy Pokrov Monastery in the village of Zaklernice Rožnetów district of Ivano-Frankiv region. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija Samoplavski to the State Tax Administration for the failure of the Excise Assembly's plans to be implemented in the State Budget due to the lack of tools for the implementation of ethyl alcohol for the grain alcohol plant of the Plain region. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Prosecutor of the Sumskie District regarding the objectivity of the civil case by the Trostian district court in the Suma region. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Deputy Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the Regional Department of the State Property Fund in Kiev, Head of the Vosius District State Administration of Kiev, on the rental of immovable property located in Kiev on the street of Dublin. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the head of the Kyiv City Administration of Justice regarding the violation of legislation by the State Shareholder Company “National Network of auction centres”. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Deputy Attorney General, Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the facts of the arbitrary seizure of land, the illegal construction, the abuse of public officials by the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Yes. And some of them are out of order. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations of the interests of the State by the leaders of the VAT Bank of Big Energy. Ally ALEXANDROWS to the office of the Attorney General of Ivano-Frankiv district on the use of necessary measures of prosecutorial response regarding the situation around the VAT "Papateblanergo". Vladimir LECHENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of evicting a young family with children under three years of age from the hostel of the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council for the provision of official information regarding the provision of one-off compensation for expenses for the creation of adequate housing conditions by the Ukrainian national deputies, which combine parliamentary activities with work in government authorities and local self-government. John BOKHO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inefficient management and use of property of state-owned enterprises that belong to the administration of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. GEORGIA BUKA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the provision of information on the generalization of criminal proceedings by the courts of Ukraine under article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Thus, apart from six additional questions. On factions: the faction "Our Ukraine" - 31, the Communist faction - 36, the faction "The Regions of Ukraine" - 14, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 13, the faction of the Party "One Ukraine" - 7, the Group "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, the faction of the People's Party - 4, the faction of the Socialist Party - 7, the faction of the Block of July Timoshenko - 9, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party - 13, the Group "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, the non-fractional - 13. [[united]] Total: 161 MP's request. And another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Matviyovich, is to be part of the "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Vladimir Leschenko has a proposal for a request that was not voted on. Lechchenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u3	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. My first request was to the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, for measures taken by the executive branch of power to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs in Ukraine. As you know, this question is extremely relevant. Moreover, Victor Andriyovich, when he was on the run for the presidency, announced his intentions that new jobs would be created in a mass way. We don't know the state of the matter. So my request is that we, as national deputies, find out what steps are being taken by the executive branch to create new jobs. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote the return of my request, and the national deputies please support, especially the SDPU(o) and others who have not given a single vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Who, in order to return to the request of Vladimir Leschenko, please vote. Go back to the query. [[10:42:56]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions, I ask you to listen to the information so that we can make a balanced decision. Yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed that today we would be working full-time in plenary mode. And the parliamentary hearings that we were supposed to start at 15 hours are transformed into committee hearings that will be held either in Banks, 6-8, or elsewhere so that the hall can accommodate all those who want to participate in parliamentary hearings. Therefore, you are asked to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's day-to-day draft regulation on some of the issues of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 6, 2005, registration number 7767. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:44:10]] For 271 Decision taken. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 73, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 2, People's Party - 38, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, "One Ukraine" - 18, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, non-fractional - 23. Dear colleagues, I propose in the draft hearing order of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood on "Health and Health Problems and Health Care for Ukrainian Citizens and their Ways of Solution" from 15 hours ago. [[This is the second item]] And put a dot, don't write where the room is. And with that in mind, I'm voting for a draft ruling as a ruling. Please vote. Registration number 7767. Please vote. [[10:45:17]] For-286 It's been decided. I ask the secretariat, along with the committee, to organize committee hearings. Please, Igor Šurma, and we'll move on to the performances now. Dear colleagues, he raised. I ask you to raise your hand to vote. He picked up, I gave him the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u5	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, voted, is the law of execution. But I'm asking you to announce in the Court of Appeal's decision, which suspended the mandate of the national deputies in the short term. I don't understand why there are fellow governors here against whom the decisions of the Court of Appeal are. Their cards must be deleted. That's the first one. And secondly, I think that Vladimir Mikhailovich that we have not done the right thing with regard to parliamentary hearings, because up to 800 people have come from the regions. We don't have the system, we don't have health programs, we don't have a government program, we don't have a club, we can get people to a club, and we can get the assistant minister to report to them. And I don't know if those hearings are going to have any resonance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, parliamentary hearings are scheduled to take place once a month. We have introduced the practice that we have weekly parliamentary hearings. That's the first one. Second, dear colleagues, I had a conversation with the committee and the minister. It turns out that there's a slightly lower number of parliamentary hearings between 200 and 300 people. As for the co-conspirators, with regard to the co-conspirators of the Court of Appeal's decision, I gave the command to remove or block all the cards. It's already done. There are now a lot of statements coming up, and tomorrow, after the committee's consideration, we're going to vote to end the term of office, virtually all the national deputies of our colleagues. That's it. Rephat Chubarov, then Valentin Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today’s session will consider the question of changing the boundaries of the city of Alushta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the appropriate adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the matter. I would like to draw your attention to the extraordinary relevance of this issue, your excellent colleagues. Finally, in Crimea, steps are being taken to determine the order of the earth. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you very much, let's move this question from this chapter somewhere at a time like this, so that we can make a decision today or at least tomorrow, because there will be a very high price for this decision, because in Crimea people have, both people and authorities, and all parties have to see that, in fact, we can put in order the use of land, a normal regime -- transparent, fair, just. So I ask that we consider the matter today or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Yes, there is also the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. If you have any support, I think that we need to do so today, regardless of how we schedule, consider these questions, and make the right decision. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to inform my esteemed colleagues. Vladimir Mikhailovich said that there are many claims coming forward. I wouldn't say that's very rich. Today, only six statements from the National Deputies will be considered at the Committee -- John, Yvchenka, Nikolainka, Polishchuk, Rybikina, Tsushka. That's why it's a long way from here. Thus, there will remain 16 national deputies who do not make up their parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u10	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko. And then Ratuszny. And we'll keep on speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u11	Gurenko, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I'm in the order of affairs of the day today, on the subject. The issue of consideration of Bill 7566: the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities -- it cannot be considered today, because it was not considered on the committee since the second reading. And from the committee members, everyone has made a firm statement today in a poll against bringing it up to date. Please take this into account and remove the question from today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u12	Thank you. Stanisław Ivanovich, respected colleagues. When we come to that question, we exchange thoughts, we define. Because there was a discussion yesterday. Stanisław Ivanovich, God forbid we come to this question. And then we'll figure it out. Mikhailo Ratushny, please, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Ukrainian People’s Party Of course, the Ukrainian People's Party notes with sadness that all it took was the President's hard intervention so that the compatibility rule would finally be carried out by our colleagues. But given that there are portraits of some members of the Ukrainian People's Party here, I want to say that all of them have long written statements. There are no accomplices in the Ukrainian People’s Party, there is Shevchenko Vitali, whose appointment as the National Council of Television and Radio is charged with being a member of the Communist Party in court. This is a similar situation to that of the Hinsburg MP, whose election is now being indicted in court. Thus, he cannot actually make a legal claim before the court. I say again, I think we have a perfectly normal situation today, the co-sponsors have written a statement, to go to the laws related to the accession of our state to the World Trade Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to finish the topic with the co-conspirators, I would like to say that there are now voices that seem to have been said in certain safes for a long time, including the safe of the head of the Supreme Council. So I'd like to tell the National People's Deputies that I'm not using the safe. Once again, I don't use it for whatever reason, and I don't have any statements. If they're in other safes, we need to talk about it. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions. Kalinchuk has the word. We're done, we're on our way. Well, we're in the middle of a procedure with authorized representatives. Well, please, Carmazin. Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, I'm sorry. John Bastrig to prepare. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and yesterday it was a disgrace to speak under these slogans "they are accomplices" and so on. What's more, there's more than half, two-thirds, already fired. Please ask the initiators or let them make changes to the list, or let them just take it off, because it's just humiliating to speak to the deputy when they're hanging from the list behind him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u16	Please initiate either make changes or remove this password. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Please, Vasil Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This has already been the case in Ukraine that agricultural reform has always been taken before the next elections, since for the authorities, as for most of these political processes, the village was primarily a battlefield for the voter vote. The VII National Party meeting condemned the practice of political speculation around the situation in this area and obliged the party’s leadership to develop and bring a national strategy for the development of agriculture to 2015. It was a public discussion, since all previous reforms were essentially imposed from above. At times, the authors had no idea of the village’s contents, and no one was interested in the peasant himself. Today, the country's village for everyone, each for the village, project prepared by the members of our faction with the involvement of authoritative scientists and practitioners is being brought to justice by the general public. At 12 o’clock in the day, the UNIAN People’s Party will present the document. Our project envisions a radically new approach to the formation of agrarian politics. First. We propose a system document that clearly outlines strategic goals and suggests mechanisms for achieving them. It's different. Our proposals are about both the need for a clear distribution of functions and responsibilities between the branches of government in these matters and the need for understanding between them. And third. When working on the strategy, we need to make sure that every peasant has the opportunity to get to know it and make his own proposals, and all of this must go into its final form. Unfortunately, the format of a three - minute statement does not allow for detail. However, only reanimation of such areas as hops, carpentry, livestock, gardening and vineyarding will allow them to create hundreds of thousands, if not millions of jobs in depressed regions, to restore their prospects for life. The financial component of our proposed strategy is based on valid laws. So Ukraine's Social Development Priority Act stipulates that financing rural development should be at least 1 percent of GDP, which is 2.5 billion dollars this year. The first step is done. With the insistence of the faction of the People’s Party, the Budget Resolution contains such a task for the government, but this is only the first step, before serious work, and to achieve its real results, it is necessary to unite the efforts of all branches of government. The faction strongly invites the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, to support our initiative and announce next year's village with real action supporting the villagers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u18	Yes. Bastriga Ivan Mikhajlovich, authorized by the faction, the Party "Industrious, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u19	An open letter to the heads of state, members of the Supreme Council, from the participants in the meeting of the local council’s secretaries, associations of the cities of Zaporozhye and the communities. On June 23-24, I was present from our faction in Berdjansk at an association of Ukrainian cities and communities held by a community of secretaries of local councils. As part of this meeting, a seminar was held on reforming local self - government. The organizers pursued the goal of discussing the concept of a system of power at regional and local levels, improving budgetary legislation, regulatory regulation and local elections, and the role of an association in the reform of the power system in Ukraine. To discuss these issues, 120 participants arrived in Berdjansk, including the majority of the city’s city councils, where more than half of the population of Ukraine lives. Regardless of the specific arrangements and the relevance of the problem, participation in the work of the association was neither accepted by the developers of the draft administrative and territorial reform project nor by the invited representatives of the ministries, which could be seen as ignoring the interests and opinions of the local communities in the design and implementation of the reform. Representatives of local government authorities today see the delay in the adoption of Bill 3207-1 to amend the Constitution of Ukraine as a problem, without which administrative and territorial reform is not possible at all. It also highlighted the urgent liquidation of district government administrations by handing over functions and authority to local authorities. A serious concern among the participants was the problem of local budgeting, inter-budget relations, the lack of mechanisms to stimulate the economic development of communities. Therefore, the scenario for administrative and territorial reform, according to local council secretaries, should be aligned with the problems of expanding the tax base of local budgets, strengthening the economic and financial foundations of local self-government. During the discussion, complaints were made that the government was obviously not sufficiently responsive to the thinking of the local authorities. In the meantime, the participants were the very practical workers of local self - government, who would be given a substantial share of the work of reforming their lives. In addition, severe rejection sparked the future holding of local elections on a proportionate basis. The Association of Ukrainian Cities has repeatedly opposed the holding of elections to local authorities for a proportional system. The secretaries of local councils in Berdjansk reiterated that the local elections in March 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u20	Thank you. Peter Simonenko is invited from the Communist faction to prepare Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u21	Dear voters, Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Company’s faction blocked yesterday and today will continue to block the work of the Supreme Council, primarily because we will defend Ukraine’s national interests and because of the threat that Ukraine has faced with groundless, unbiased offers of WTO entry. The entrance to SOT is no more than a cheap illusion, a propaganda bar, where interests are primarily hidden by transnational corporations. Dear voters, the entrance to the SOT is going to dramatically reinforce all of the most pressing internal problems. In this regard, interested primarily in countries that have powerful, competitive economies that have long grown larger in their own internal markets and now dominate markets around the world. For Ukraine, which by the volume of GDP is a underdeveloped country, this will primarily be aimed at destroying our powerful complex. The question of joining the WTO requires careful and comprehensive socio-economic analysis of all its possible consequences, both positive and negative, in order to achieve the greatest benefits and benefits and reduce projected losses. In this situation, the haste with which the official Kiev is pushing for entry into WTO only confirms the absence of a fundamental socio-economic response to all possible consequences. And I want to make a statement. This is due to the fact that there is a directive by the United States Department of State for Ukraine’s entry into the WTO. The introduction to the WTO is going to cause us to lose a lot of the internal market because of the inadequacy of domestic production with European standards. It has to be borne in mind that over the past decade, the structure of Ukrainian exports, which accounts for over 60 percent of the world's total weight of raw materials and materials, including 41 percent, is the production of metallurgical industries. How will this turn out for our people in Ukraine? First of all, I want to say again that this will lead to the destruction of a domestic producer, primarily basic industries, engineering, shipbuilding, aircraft building and many other industries and businesses. It's millions of unemployed, rising prices, it's destroying our village. Today, those who are trying to vote in favour of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO will vote for coal and ore from Australia, metal scrap from Turkey, sugar from Argentina. It's going to be a minimum of three to four million extra unemployed in Ukraine and agri-industrial complex destroyed. The Communist faction calls for no economic justification, without any agreement of all positions, to prevent decisions that will destroy Ukraine’s national independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u22	Yuri Kostenko is invited to speak from the Ukrainian People’s Party and the respective faction. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, in connection with the beginning of Parliament’s debate on Ukraine’s accession to the WTO, the UNODC faction claims. First. The Ukrainian People's Party considers Ukraine's Euro-integration processes including NATO membership as the shortest time to a highly competitive national economy and European standards of life. This position is anchored in our program as the main foreign policy priority of the party back in 1992. The other one. In the Euro-Integration processes, we come from the fact that the government must first protect the interests of a national producer, which has convincingly proven the practice of other countries that have already passed this path. See how today, in the European Union, the Blair government is defending Britain’s interests despite the threat of the continued existence of the Union itself. Third. In modern history, Ukraine has more than once faced the interests of the world community despite the enormous national losses. Let's just think about Russia's transfer of the third nuclear power in the world, where one price of high-rich uranium and plutonium was more than 30 billion. That's what I'm talking about. I'll remind you, as the MP of the first call, who voted against just such disarmament, that apart from the little technical assistance and friendly palsy on the shoulders of our high leaders, Ukraine did not get anything for its courageous move. Four. We are looking at the process of joining the WTO as a constant search by the Ukrainian government for the most optimal balance between the interests of the Ukrainian producer and the requirements of legislation governing the work of the World Trade Organization. In this connection, the faction expresses concern over recent decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers, which have significantly worsened the functioning of the Ukrainian economy. In particular, changes to the 2005 budget led to a dead end for a small entrepreneur, and new freight tariffs and exchange rates almost halted Ukrainian exports. For example, for days the government has adopted a decision that has raised the price of special water use 690 times [[Think about that figure!]] Taking into account what has been said, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party claims that in the matter of Ukraine’s accession to the WTO we will be guided by the interests of national economics. We will support all the bills that will expand the ability of the Ukrainian producer to sell its products without any barriers or restrictions on world markets. We will always vote against any decision that puts in unequal conditions and harms the national producer. We demand that the government in this work be guided solely by the interests of Ukraine. Only in this case will the EU’s integration and entry into the WTO give Ukraine what the people require — jobs, high wages, pensions, and European social standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u24	Taras Cnerwell from the faction of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputy! The party of the regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, is deeply alarmed and outraged by the continuation of the trend of populist accusations that have been reported to many Ukrainian citizens who have been charged with serious crimes that have not been confirmed by any judicial decision. The populist statements and actions that followed them with gross violations of procedural norms, detentions, arrests of a number of people -- both Kolesnik and Rizak, and cases that were discovered both in Tihonov and Kushnarov, and others, already contain official crime, the crime of those who did those statements and did those things. In particular, it is indignant that such statements are accompanied by a person who is, first of all, not the first official in the power structures that is not even fully approved in this office, but who is in charge of the management of the fight against organized crime, Sergey Kornić. His statement is a charge to the Supreme Council in connection with the law we have adopted that it is now, it turns out, that the deputies of the Supreme Council are already creating cooperatives there for 150 people who have been paid huge money or will be paid for their actions regarding the release, saying, of criminal criminals, it is already a higher stage of nihilism in the legal sphere. Such things were not allowed by officials of the same level even under the Kuchma regime. In this regard, on behalf of the faction, I appeal to two subjects of Ukrainian authority. The first is the committee to combat organized crime and corruption, in which today Yuri Lucenko, the minister of the interior, will present the appointment on the permanent basis of Sergey Kornić as head of the U.S. a person who has dishonored the Supreme Council and allowed himself to become involved in the politics that this man is forbidden by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws, to vote against his appointment. And I am addressing the President of Ukraine. Since we see, firstly, a serious violation and populism on the part of Kornich himself, secondly, we see that, in connection with this submission today, Yuri Lucenko, in fact, has given him instructions to do so, we insist that the President by his decree release Yuri Lucenko from the post of Minister of Internal Affairs as a person who has led to the actual breakdown of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and has led to populism and political repression in Ukrainian society, and secondly, to give orders to release and bring to the criminal responsibility of Sergei Kornić. Thank you for your attention. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. And I'm talking to my colleagues. That we should finally stand up for our dignity. In the statements that have been made, there are no more individual factions that have been offended by the entire Supreme Council. Officials of this level should enforce laws when they enter into legal force rather than comment on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u26	Alexander Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the floor. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u27	Honourable colleagues, in view of the events that took place yesterday in Parliament, feel that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is obliged to express its position on the issue of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. This organization today is 148 countries in the world, 30 observer countries, two thirds of the volume of world trade. With the entry into the WTO for domestic producers, new markets will certainly open up, and new technologies will be available. In view of this, the introduction to this organization is very important for Ukraine, and we welcome the initiative of executive power in this regard. But the introduction should be considered taking into account the state of the national economy, the external trade, the creation of a predictable transparent environment for foreign investment. Is Ukraine ready for this? Will our introduction be a shock therapy? Today, first of all, Ukraine needs to take care of the protection of its markets, the competitiveness of the economy, at the state level, to prevent the accumulation of individual productions and the reduction of jobs, which are still limited to promises. Such dangers can be faced by automobiles and agricultural machinery, radio electronics, metallurgy, coal mining, and so forth, in all sectors of the economy. The Ukrainian agrarian sector, which is using a good level of protection against external competition, will now face extremely serious tests, and it's still just making ends meet. Liberalisation of the internal market for sugar-sparing will lead to a situation where, at every ton of additional imports of this product, Ukraine will lose not only in sugar factories that have become problematic but also in machine construction. We are, however, being offered the threat of a sugar crisis to cancel quotas not only for supplies of sugar outside Ukraine, but also to lift the ban on deliveries to the internal market of sugar produced in Ukraine from imported raw materials. In this regard, we prepared a separate statement. We cannot accept the position of a project that poses a threat to the processing sector. Reduction in the export rate of duty on flax seeds, sunflowers, predicts an increase in seed exports and, in line with the decline in the exports of processed goods, oil will cause irreversible damage to agriculture, the cancellation of export duties on young cattle and on skin. This will destroy the internal market for animal production, and the entire population will be lost. There are other problems. of other projects are serious threats. Therefore, we believe that, in order to mitigate the loss of various sectors of the economy, there is a need for compromise and the possibility of compensating these losses, of continuing negotiations on the gradual introduction of special WTO requirements, of a transitional period of Ukrainian membership. Once again, Ukraine is not a field of experimentation, it's our home, it's the future of our children, let's take care of that future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u28	Yes, Michael Noshchenko, the group "Democratic Initiatives" is invited to the presentation. Prepare Alexander Ustenko from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Nightshenko, Democratic Ukraine MP, 160 constituency, Volodymyr Lithuania People's Party. It has become a common violation of the Rules in part of the protection of the rights of deputies to timely and qualitative information about the requests we are making from this rostrum. In May, I applied to the minister of the agro-industrial complex. Today, I support my colleague in declaring the village by 2006. But let's deal with the financial flows that are in the budget for today. Unfortunately, I didn't get a full answer when I asked how it was distributed in the region by 1 billion 160 million. 540 million are covered today by fog. I'd like to ask Minister Baranowski, who didn't even sign my answer, and for that, his deputy did, to give me a complete answer. That's the first one. The other one. The parliamentary group is alarmed by another social issue. But unfortunately, this year the government has abolished the benefits of scrapping gas for the disabled. For 10 years, the benefits existed, 32 million were budgeted, and today government officials have learned that there is no compressed balloon gas in the utilities. There's gas, but there's no word for "baloney." So I'm addressing now, using the presence that Julia Volodymyrna is. Julius Volodymyrically, give an order, please, not to wait for a change to the law passed by our MP group, but to amend Cabinet Order 94 of February 16, 1994, and to introduce this benefit. The money in the budget, 32 million, there is. I think it's not gonna be a word, it's really a state's concern for the disabled. And the last. If we're talking about the productive work of Parliament and government together. So I would like to point out that the government was due to launch a financing mechanism for the construction of pipelines and investment projects of 820 million from April 1. It has been six months, unfortunately, no order, no list of objects. I would like the approval of these arrangements to be in parallel with the approval of the laws of the hundredth century. This will be a worthy example of the joint, fruitful work of Parliament and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u30	Alexander Ustenko, the "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Anatolia Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, first of all about the WTO. No doubt the faction supports this proposal and needs to see the whole process of social development. Without a doubt, Ukraine must have its approaches in this vaster process. But you can't go to the left, you can't go to the right. If we enter these or other organizations in different directions, especially education, science, and so forth, we face challenges and problems. Today, we must consider the Law under number 3323 with you. This is about higher education. We are all well aware that Ukraine’s future depends on future personnel and especially on the leaders of higher education institutions. This Law provides for a range of new democratic initiatives, including serious attention to students, student self - government, and the selection of rectors. Without this education, there is no future. Everyone knows very well what kind of pipe is that and the coming that the head of the school is the same school. I would like to pay particular attention to what happened at the Ternopil Academy of National Agriculture recently reorganized by the Cabinet of Ministers at the university. Endless falsification, endless lying, has led to the fact that the university is not registered, does not exist. However, the administration, which began with Rector Yuri, held an appropriate competition for nonexistent positions, deceived the people who had gone through the competition and thus put the situation in an extremely difficult position. Not enough, the C.R.R.A. audit revealed serious shortcomings at the school. Look, the budget distortions amount to 11 million 767 thousand dollars, which are direct losses of a budget of one and a half million dollars. You see, Mr. Zukinsky was arrested for only 200,000 dollars, various, as it were, charges against Kolesnikov were also minor. There's 11 million here, and it's all passing. Consider my statement on behalf of the faction as a request to the Minister of Internal Affairs Lucenka, the Attorney General of Piscoon, as well as the head of the Turkinov SBU, because there are clear elements of corruption in the actions of the District Attorney's Office. [[Head of the Pigeon]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u32	Anatoly Seminoga is invited from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u33	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Today, we are faced with a matter of great importance. Here in this room we have to answer the question whether we are moving towards world cooperation, trying to take a decent place among the world community, or whether we are on our own on the brink of world development. Today's decision, my dear colleagues, will depend on the further direction of the domestic economy, the image of the country in the world, the prospect of increasing the well-being of our citizens. The current stage in the development of the world system has acquired the irreversible character of global integration and global cooperation. Within the millenniums, the world is united to jointly produce a strategy for overcoming regional poverty, the threat of economic catastrophes, unbreakable competition, and to create conditions for the lives and development of every citizen of the world. We need to understand that if Ukraine is not integrated in the world and European political and economic structures in the near future, it will not have the historic prospect of a worthy partnership in international co-operation and European particularity. Today, the WTO brings together 148 countries that provide almost 95 percent of the world’s trade. The main advantages that countries, WTO participants, receive are integration into the world economy through an international trading system, access to direct investment flows. Because the less obstacles to the movement of goods and services, the higher the level of competition, the faster national economies develop. In Ukraine today, most sectors of manufacturing goods and services are uncompetitive. Instead of carrying out market transformations in enterprises, the Directorate focused its efforts on raising its own capital, often using tax preferences and subsidies from the State Budget. Lack of fair competition as a driver of progress has led to the conservation of low technology, the demolition of basic funds. What should guide us when making decisions? If you want to save the heat conditions for retarded technologies, or if you want to realize the course of innovation that will preserve and increase national intelligence. At the same time, the new rule system will add confidence to foreign investors that their share of capital will depend on the internal political environment and market access conditions, changing the government’s limited actions. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day, Ukraine has been going on for nearly 12 long years. The former authorities used the theme SAT to correct their negative image. She made international commitments, but she did not care about fulfilling them. Today we need to adopt a package of laws and build up courage to implement them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u34	Igor Shurma, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. To prepare Paul Sulkowski for his dissatisfaction with the answer, all the necessary documents have been prepared. The answer to the MP's questions, I mean. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u35	The Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is united and the Party of Regions is addressing the citizens of Ukraine, all the political forces and the international community with protest against the efforts of the forces of Ukraine, subordinates to the new authorities, to deal with all the dissidents by drawing criminal responsibility on both political opponents and ordinary citizens. Today, as in the days of Stalin’s repression, almost all who did not support Victor Yushchenk in the polls are condemned as in the worse times of the Fedorchukian KGB. Instead of raising political power, the economic well - being of citizens, the authorities are destroying their opponents. The means of destruction, chosen by the authorities, is not new -- attracting criminal responsibility. Ukrainian courts have stopped protecting their citizens. Dependent courts legitimize unjust judgments and judgments. The country has been transformed into a range of political ambitions and revenge. On July 4th, Victor Tihonova’s head of the Luhansk District Council was announced that the judicial investigation into the so - called separatism in connection with him had ended. Victor Tikhov was never questioned as an accused. The investigator had no questions for him. All his explanations were given, not by the defendant, but by himself. The charge is based on an expert opinion written by a person who does not even have a legal education. Tikhov was not even ordered to commit a criminal offence against him personally, he was simply summoned to Kiev for questioning, he was served with a warrant for prosecution, and in 12 days he had completed a pretrial investigation. I would like, first of all, to address the President and remind him of Tihonov's speech, for which he is drawn: "I address the leadership of the country, the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers! It is time to demonstrate the power of will and courage in the end, to prevent the opposition of the country from being pushed into civil conflict and the destruction of the territorial integrity of the State. The fact that such a threat is real is evidence of the requirement at meetings and sessions to hold referendums in areas where questions have been dealt with by administrative and territorial devices. This cannot be allowed, the descendants will not forgive us the breakdown of power, the passiveness of the action of a bunch of adventurers and passers-bys!" The party of regions and SDPU(o) strongly demands the cessation of the brutal abuse of the rights of Viktor Tikhov. We turn to law enforcement: Do not obey criminal orders. We call upon the judges: let yourselves be ashamed! Be courageous, do not be pressured. Both factions support the Sovkovic initiative to file claims of duty. We turn to power: first, figure out what "federalism" is and what "separatism" is, and I would like to remind you that in the Middle Ages, inquisitors raped and robbed for three days. You've been doing this for six months. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. Paul Sulkowski has a word for expressing dissatisfaction with the answers to parliamentary questions. The necessary documents under the Rules are drawn up in order to obtain the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking advantage of the opportunity today to be Prime Minister Julia Volodymyrna, I am fortunate to return to the fact that we, Yulia Volodymyrivna, almost daily Vladimir Mikhailovich, make the parliamentary requests of all these violations of the law, the Constitution of Ukraine by individual officials who, according to your submission, have been appointed by the President to lead the region, and they have their short-lived policies, their insolence, their conduct in contravention of the Constitution and their conduct there, in places. We're addressing you as Prime Minister and asking you to get into a situation where mass layoffs, political persecutions, repressions, violations of the law and the Constitution, release thousands of people in areas. Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko assured that they would not release the workers of those who cost the State dearly, indeed. But to this day we see that this is not supported by real things. We're asking you, you're giving the task to the right structures to check out. And look, they're checking, they're writing help, they're signing the V. Tuck, the head of the department. After his help, you, Julia Volodymyrna, are signing, indeed. And here, this paper concludes that the information really confirms that the leaders of the Plains region, in particular the heads of the regime and the head of the Ombudsman, have established the facts of giving the head of the Plains Authority a mandate to collect confidential information about persons without obtaining their consent. You're reading all this information and you're writing to the National MP that you've assigned to the head of the Plains Authority to take urgent steps to eliminate the irregularities detected in the process. [[It's just that I don't have time to tell you.]] Dear Julia Volodymyrna, will this be our order? It seems to me that you should use the urgent. Punish him or catch him or warn him. You're just taking it into account again. That is how he does it! So I would like to ask you, Julia Volodymyrna, if you take this opportunity, to ask you: such leaders, low-level politicians as Basil Red in the Plains region, you have to get rid of it quickly, or rather get rid of it, it will be better for the Plains region, and for you as Prime Minister, and in Ukraine as a whole, otherwise there will be unrest and misery, Julia Volodymyrna, because this man alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, please calm down! The name was Sovkovich at the time of the performance. One minute's replica. And let's get to work. I'm the only one asking, no last names. [[Oh, now we're working hard - then we'll be even harder, yeah]] Please, Sevkovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I have indeed written and filed an application for appearance today with the Attorney General's Office for part two of the 110th article. Why, because I read, first of all, Tikhov's accusation. And I think the same thing as him. Because what he said was in a period of chaos. At the same time in Lviv Sendaka did the same thing. And if Sendaku were put in jail now, I'd do the same. So I suggest that everyone who attended the convention do the same thing by writing an application for an appearance with duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u40	Honorable national MPs, speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. I ask the Secretariat to take into account the suggestions made in the speeches, statements, appeals and proposals made by the national MPs to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, at work. Dear colleagues, at work. One minute! The Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the Government of Ukraine, participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We agreed yesterday that today, according to the procedure, we would consider matters that were scheduled for the meeting. If there's a procedure, please log in for three minutes. I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, let's get to work. I'm asking you to prepare for the report from the scene. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Mikhailo Pojinov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have an agenda for today, and I ask, according to this order, because it is essential today for the country to come back to the previously unsupported issues, those relating to the accession of our country to the World Trade Organization. I don't want to give evidence that this is necessary, but there was a lot of talk about it yesterday, and I'm sure we must all work hard today and adopt all these laws. And what we've heard about the accomplices today is that most of the co-conspirators have written statements and tomorrow we're going to deprive them all of their powers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u42	Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, yesterday President Yushchenko of the Conciliation Council publicly declared that this morning he is releasing all those who are accomplices. And that's his position. Today we are once again faced with the President's giving his word and taking him back, that is, "he is the master of his word." And as before, during the election campaign, he promised a great deal from the Supreme Council’s rostrum as our colleague, and none of those promises are fulfilled. And, first of all, it creates corruption in power. All those who own a powerful capital are his godparents and covens sitting next to him, those whom he arrests, and those whom he frees, are the ones who are destroying Ukraine’s economy today. So the faction of Communists insists, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and we will require you to comply with the Constitution and have them exercise authority. The faction finds it inappropriate to continue our work under such conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u44	Mikhail Siatina, please, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u45	Please pass the word to the national deputy at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u46	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u47	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that yesterday we had a case, we reviewed the Act on Change of List of State Property Objects, which are not subject to privatization, 11 of them. And then we started with these spontaneous movements. So maybe there's a point for us to just start working today. Let us examine issues related to privatization and may then really come up with a normal discussion of issues. And one more point I would like to point out. That if we do not consider today the problem of joining the World Trade Organization in a normal manner, I think we can get a case that we have almost won when the masses, without discussing the 20 bills, are put to the vote. So I think we should move on to a normal, detailed drafting of the bills and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u48	We exchanged thoughts. Dear colleagues! I would ask you not to repeat yourself, it would be as absurd as it is with regard to the co-conspirators. Those national MPs who have written the statements, the committee will consider them today, and tomorrow we will make the right decisions. I don't have the ability to either force a national MP or anyone else to comply with the Constitution. If you have these possibilities, please. May I tell you who filed the application, Your Honor? I, the honourable national MPs, once again want to say that I have no rights to those MPs who are not authorized to remove their cards. With regard to those deputies who have court decisions, the cards have been deleted. Please check again. One minute, one minute, all those who have been tried. No matter what appeals are going on, all the cards are deleted. I told the stenographer. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, have made statements, in addition to: Yvchenko, Pinzenik, Tsushko. Cusco didn't take away the court. An application was made: John, Nikolayenko, Polishchuk, Dustyenko, Ryabikin, and Tarasyuk. These statements are submitted to the Committee today. Once again, dear colleagues, I beg of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read it. We had 55 national deputies who went to work in executive power structures. I read MPs who either wrote themselves, or by a court decision: Baranivsky, Immortal, Bilozur, Bulba, Vasjunik, Yehanurov, Zinchenko, Ignatenko, Kaputin, Kirilenko, Lucenko, Matvienko, Pavlenko, Rybauk, Semenyuk, Skomarowski, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, Timoshenko, Tomenko, Tretyakov, Crvenkovski, Red, Chandra, Shandra, Yustenko, Artemenko, Atroshenko, Balaga, Bondar, Zvtjak, Zvaric, Oliynik, Stojko, Terjohin, Tka. And here's a statement by Alexander. Well, please, I can't remember everything, I'm not the House of Counsel. I want it again, lady, for the transcript. I told you, MPs. I'm not sure who's already in charge. What else do you want? In addition, a statement was received from Alexander Turkinov. I'm also handing her over to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let's work! It's not a good decision; we don't make that decision. You want a wall on the wall to fight in the Supreme Council? Organize. Please, come on. I say again, step away from the chair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u49	I won't provoke you. Let's get to work, let's get to work, let's get to work. I, Peter Mikolaiovich, urge you to work properly. The committee said we'd look into it tomorrow and put it together. I want to say again, the committee will take a break today, and we'll look at it after lunch. All of it. Calm down. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for implementation of the law) is being announced for consideration. I want to say again, let the guards in now, have a conscience, turn on the microphone. The Supreme Council will work under any circumstances. I'm asking the National Deputy Bondarczuk to calculate the cost of the microphone on a full-time basis. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would review all laws in accordance with the Rules and Procedures of the Supreme Council. Hence, there is no reason to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's no reason. And yesterday, everyone agreed. So, honourable colleagues, if we all want to work together to lower the authority of the Supreme Council, if we think that this way we can raise our ratings for the election campaign, you're wrong. I am convinced that we need decisions and arguments to determine how we feel about the bills. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the bill on the return of previously unsupported issues is being considered. It's about the honourable colleagues that we have three bills for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made the appropriate decision not to support these projects. In line with the agreements, dear colleagues, we need to make a decision to go back to the previously unsupported projects. Dear colleagues, if the problem is not to vote on the accomplices, we can solve this problem. But it will go beyond the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. You're forcing me to break. I don't want to do another violation of the law, you know. I said, when the Rules Committee meets and says it's ready in 15 minutes, I'll put it to the vote. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please prepare for the vote? I am voting on the proposal to return to the previously unsupported Bill 7032 on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation, to the requirements of the Multilateral Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of the Intellectual Property Rights of WTO). Second reading. On the return to consideration. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[11:43:18]] For 269 The Supreme Council of Ukraine returned to its consideration of the bill. Please report to the committee. Vladimir Demyohin, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is under consideration for the third time. After consideration in the Chamber, the committee did not meet separately, and the decision remained in force to support the second reading and, in general, the bill. We didn't take into account the three amendments. If there is a need for the authors, they may be put to the vote separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a number of draft decrees against this bill. These are the authors, the national MPs: Yuri Carmazin, Taras Cnerovil, Anatoly Pisarenko, and Mikhailo Rodionov Please, Yuri Carmazin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be delighted to follow the advice that I am now advised to withdraw this project, but. But before us is the same bill that was not adopted in the second reading. No changes have been made, and the offer of domestic producers has not yet been taken into account. I want this to be clear. This law does not meet the requirements of articles 13, 19, 41, 62, 85, 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the relevant provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Property Act, articles 11 and 12 of the Customs Code of Ukraine, part two of article 3.5. 1 of the Supreme Council Rules That's why I think we have to take the following proposals into account, and I made them in my determination. Excluding the word “import” in article 5, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of State Control of Marketing Subjects Related to Production, Exports, Imports of Discs for Laser Reading Systems will open the way for imports of non-licensed discs into Ukrainian customs territory, whose manufacturers will simply not be able to install. Here's what's gonna happen. We're not going to. We're going to get imported. I want them to understand that. In time, the situation will only deteriorate, and Ukraine may be constantly accused of piracy and will answer us with nothing. It is not possible to establish the origin of disks without proper marking. It is also necessary to add this part to the list of disks for laser reading systems. I would like to present this part as follows: "Export, import of disks for laser-reading systems and matrixes for their production are only made by special identification codes available on them." This condition was also introduced into the Ukrainian-American Joint Programme to Combat Piracy in Optical Media, signed in 2000. This proposal only refines and complements this already settled international issue. We need to support the position expressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. A detailed explanation of this requirement is given in the draft law on the implementation of legislation to the requirements of a multilateral agreement made by the Osika People’s Deputies in exchange for the previous one. This includes taking into account the fact that in section 3 of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of State Control of Marketing Subjects Related to Production, Exports, Imports of Disks for Laser Reading Systems, the Ministry of Education and Science proposes to impose restrictions on individuals by the number of disks imported or exported by a natural person. At the same time, it removes any restrictions on the import-export of disks by legal persons, so they can use this path to smuggle a lot of smuggled discs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Grounds for the draft inadmissibility order. Please note that I am voting on the draft regulation by Yuri Karmazin on the inadmissibility of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of operations related to production, export, import of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production. Number 7032 of 17.03. In 2005. Registration number 7032/p1. [[11:48:39]] For-86 The decision is not taken. The factions. There's no motive, dear colleagues. One minute, no motive. When it is, I'll give it to you. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist - 56, "Ukraine" - 1, National Party - 9, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian National Party - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 3. Taras Cranville. Draft inadmissibility order, registration number 7032/p2. Please, it's Taras Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I support the motives that Yuri Karmazin said in his speech, but I also want to add: this law introduces the norm that I spoke about today in my speech from the beginning of the rostrum about the guiltlessness of the guilty, when it is possible to punish people in a material way who are not proven guilty of piracy, what kind of guilt is that in a court of law. This is another example of legal nihilism that is imposed on us. The rest of the time I want to say it more generally, both in the context of this law, and in the context of the WTO in general. I am a supporter of the WTO, but not by such methods as today’s authorities and this government take us there. Because you can't come to the S.O.T. in plastic, you can't sneak in. You can only go in there with your head up high. And only by defending the interests, the national interests, the interests of your manufacturer, can you gain in the WTO the privileges, the gains that the government so advertises today, proving the billions that we will earn in this. So, in plastic, we're just going to turn into a boy to fight. Someone needs to destroy the high - tech production of laser disks and impose foreign products on us. And that's what we do, and our government officials give up. And I remember very well when I was still in the Reforms and Order Party as this party brutally opposed Kuchma's similar law. Why do they now vote all of "Our Ukraine" for a law that is harmful to the Ukrainian state? I want the President and the Prime Minister to mention the example of Brazil, which is visible in the WTO and the influence that the Constitution has established that it can refuse to exercise copyright if it threatens the national interests and security of the State and the people, and it can join the WTO, and we can't. We have other standards. We make those standards our own, I apologize for the non-parliamentary words, and sometimes just the prostitution position. And one more thing. Do you think if you give up all the national interests, someone will let you in? Where did Jackson-Venict's repairs go? Where it's different. Where is the introduction of market economy status in Ukraine that we could have deserved long ago? Nobody's going to let us into any hundred, we're just being used as a boy to beat and a new government, and the new government is really good for that role. But what is the state and nation for? Po. A little bit for your country, feel sorry for your people. Why, when it's said that in Parliament, the concentrated business interests of all of Ukraine, why is there no representative of those business interests who are assured that they're going to earn a hundred billion dollars at this position of government doesn't want to join the WTO? Because they well calculated that they, their businesses, mean the people who work there, mean that in general the state will lose and no one will gain. Under such conditions as the new authority, you cannot go to the WTO. You can only go there with your head up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the draft Supreme Council decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of operations related to production, exports, imports of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7032-p2]] Number 7032 of 17.03. In 2005. The author is national deputy Taras Czarnovil. Yes, please, here comes the vote. [[11:53:06]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 55, Ukraine - 15, People's Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 3, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 7, Only Ukraine - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues! Now the draft decree on the inadmissibility of this law, which was passed by national deputy Mikhailo Kuzmić Rodionov. Please, Michael Kuzmich, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u56	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear radios, people's deputies, Vladimir Mihajlovich! I would like to recall the history of the passage of this law. I don't think most of the deputies will vote after I speak. But this law has already been passed several times, and it has been introduced by the former President, and has been able to be avoided earlier by deputies: communists, socialists, “Our Ukraine”, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The situation has now changed, “Our Ukraine”, the socialists have voted in favour of this law. I'd like to say, Americans do, and we say, "Yes." But I would like to support my colleagues and recall the violation of the Constitution. Article 13 of the Constitution declares that all subjects of property rights are equal before the law. In violation of this provision, the Constitution in the draft law exempts importers from the need to import disks into Ukraine only because they have special identification codes. So all importers that are not Ukrainian manufacturers are going to have a lower cost of production. Well, more than that, the right MPs said we'd still be accused of being pirated. I want to remind you. Article 41 of the Constitution establishes : no one can be unlawfully deprived of property rights, and confiscation of property can be applied solely by decision of the court. Dear Bill 7032 provides for the removal of disks for laser reading systems without what court decisions? I would like to add: Article 62 establishes that a person may not be criminally punished until his or her guilt has been proved and established by an arraignment of the court. The charge cannot be based on evidence obtained by illegal means or on assumptions. So I want to point out that Law 7062 all of this is said to exclude. I'd like to ask all of us, Your Honor and Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is this a violation of the Constitution? We're already breaking the Constitution so much that there's no place to put the glue. I didn't list all these violations here. MP Carmazin said it right, we can keep them going. And in all our regulations, it's all said. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, a draft Supreme Council decree is now being put to the vote under registration number 7032/p3 on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, on the organization of operations related to production, exports, imports of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production. Number 7032 of 17. 03.2005. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Rodionov. Here comes the vote. [[11:57:45]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, draft decree, one minute, the motive will be the bill. The repairs haven't come in yet. Well, come on, I told you we would. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, now draft decree on the inadmissibility of the Law that we are considering, authored by Anatoly Pisarenko. Please, the microphone. Is it Pisarenko? None. Dear colleagues, but in accordance with the Rules, since a draft decree has been introduced, we have every reason to vote. Thus, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the Unacceptability of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of operations related to production, exports, imports of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production dated 17.03. [[Registration number 7032]] In 2005, [[Registration number 7032/P4]] [[11:59:14]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Now, let's do some repairs. The motives before the vote will be. Corrections. Vladimir Yeshchenko. Well, I'm asking you, before the vote, it'll be motivated. So we're going to the amendment, and we're not voting on the bill yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u58	Fucking Communist faction. I want to remind both the deputies and the radio that this bill is already being tabled for the eleventh time in the session hall. In May, the Supreme Council did not support the bill in its second reading by voting only 203 votes. A month later, on June 23, the bill was introduced into the Hall, and once again, the Supreme Council did not support the bill, but only 215 votes. And again, they're pushing national MPs to push through this anti-national law that's going against our domestic producer. I urge the deputies not to vote in favour of this law and to support the faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u59	That's how we vote on the amendment, right? That's why he's voting. Now we're going to vote on the amendments, then. The point is that for reasons of vote, when voted on either the basis or the law as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear colleagues, please. Correction. One moment, please. I beg you, please. Amendment number two is yours, right? I put to the vote the amendment of Comrade Vladimir Yeshchenka and National Deputy Mike. Please, the second amendment is on the first page. [[12:01:16]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have been scheduled to make and read requests, statements, 45 minutes' notice. We're in the middle of this, just a minute. Please. We usually do when. Dear colleagues, we tend to delay consideration of applications, messages, just like that. We agreed we'd work. Let's go after the amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear colleagues, why didn't you yell about the Rules when we made statements for 45 minutes instead of 45 minutes? That's where it's supposed to be. Amendment 14, Vladimir Yeshchenka. Microphone, please. Dear colleagues, please don't violate the Rules now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u60	Fucking Communist faction. I insist on voting on this amendment. I made three adjustments, and all the amendments were rejected. But once again, I'm calling the attention of the House, the National Deputies, primarily the faction of our Ukraine, the faction of the SPI and others who voted in favour of including this project in the agenda. It's a gross violation of the Constitution, it's a gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And I am addressing all of you. National MPs, by no means vote in favour of this bill, which goes against the Ukrainian people and their Ukrainian producer. I urge the deputies to reject this law, as we did in May and June and month. I ask you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the amendments are now being voted on, not by motive. Corrections shall be voted on. Dear colleagues, this is page 15 of the Amendment 14 of Vladimir Eshchenka. After we have voted on the amendments, there will be a motive, please. [[12:03:54]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Amendment 16 Vladimir Yeshchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u62	Fucking Communist faction. The Communist faction refers once again to the national MPs because this bill is aimed at destroying a domestic producer in laser disks. For one thing, it will strike our children at those who use computers and disks, as American methods of working in our Ukraine are being imposed again today. When Yushchenko visited the United States, the hall was set up and voted in the first reading. But on the second reading, we have already rejected this law twice. That's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a gross violation of the legislation and a grave violation of our Rules and Constitution. You can't press the hall. I propose to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Amendment 16 Vladimir Yashchenka, this page 20, is on the vote. [[12:05:39]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Thus, our honourable colleagues, the amendments to which the national MPs insisted, were considered and voted in accordance with the procedure. Now we have before the vote for reasons of vote. Please sign up for a vote of five minutes. Sign up for the reasons for the vote. Yes, Paul Kachur, faction of our Ukraine. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u64	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear fellow national MPs, dear voters! I'd like to go to the voters first, or there's this one-sided information from the session hall that some Communists here are protecting the interests of the Ukrainian people. This is a bill that protects intellectual property, including the intellectual property of Ukrainian citizens. And you don't have to mix the interests of individual businessmen who make big profits because they use someone else's property as their own, and the interests of the Ukrainian people. I invite all the MPs in a peaceful regime to vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u65	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u66	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u67	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u68	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! Today, the United States Embassy is under pressure to betray national interests and a Ukrainian producer is destroyed for the benefit of American producers. Small and medium-sized businesses will be affected, all those working today to implement these products will be severely affected by the same software production. I would like to emphasize that the sale of national interests takes place under pressure from the United States of America by the Government of Nationalists and Socialists. And these political parties are selling themselves out, once and for all, giving up national interests. Therefore, honourable voters, you should know that today the representatives of those political parties that work for the interests of transnational corporations have given national interests. Tomorrow you'll be paying thousands for the software product and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u69	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction cannot support this bill on the grounds that the bill is openly lobbying for foreign business, which is trying to impose its production on Ukraine, destroying businesses in a very serious and important way for the development of a high-tech sector in the state itself. We cannot support this bill on the grounds that it provides for the norms of legal nihilism when sanctions can be included, and very serious property sanctions against people whose guilt is not recognized and not confirmed by the court. We're going against him because he's criminalizing the pirate disk market in Ukraine. They are in Ukraine, they are manifest, and they must be combated. But we can fight this by putting an end to the trade. And the fact that today in Kiev on the same Petrovka is selling those disks freely, and somehow they only disappeared under the summit that was being held here in Kiev, unnecessary evidence that all of this is happening under the so-called criminal roof of power, which should be fought in real terms rather than playing criminal discs abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u71	Sergei Cassianov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u72	Sergey Cassianov, faction of the Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear voters, the Supreme Council has reviewed this law several times. And today we have different points of view. What we're talking about is that the intellectual property that is, not the disk itself, but what's written on the disk itself, so that it's protected, so that it can be found, whether it's made legally, whether it's licensed, or whether it's a disk that's being produced today in those underground factories that are operating in Ukraine and abroad today. Hence, to this day it is a principled law. It's a principled law, yes, and the United States of America is saying today in our bilateral protocols that if we can't protect our property rights, this is one of the pillars of the world's trade organization. And so the faction of the People's Party will support this law. We think that the question of intellectual property, as well as private property, is one of the pillars. Thank you for your attention. Please all support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u73	Mikola Hapoczka, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u74	Dear National MPs and Radio Hearers! I'm 100 percent confident today that the lobbyist law on this issue is for our Communist colleagues. Today their chest interests are being protected, I think it's their economy, and so today I want to say that the economy is today. Clearly, we vote in favour of the law. I wish you creative inspiration! I'm fine with my head, you guys check yours!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u75	Yes, Mikola Rudzikowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u76	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Socialists have always advocated the protection of a national producer, and we believe that laws should be adopted only in a manner that might not harm Ukrainian producers and Ukrainian citizens. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. Any student who is currently recording something on a computer and rewriting music may be criminally responsible, according to this law. I ask you, let him, if you vote, replace criminal responsibility with administrative responsibility throughout the text. And then in such a form, we will save thousands of people from criminal responsibility that seek only knowledge and not potential criminals. Please vote only with this amendment, because it will be irreparably criminal to the administrative.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u77	Yes, dear colleagues, final. Just a minute. One minute, a closing statement by the head of the Committee of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. That's it. Dear colleagues, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u78	Gurenko, head of the committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want your attention. All members of the committee, when strongly opposed to discussing today’s issue, spoke of the crazed pressure that was being exerted and did not laugh at the United States Embassy. Vladimir Mikhailovich, have you recently been visited by the Ambassador of the United States of America, as in the Voice of Ukraine, who expressed serious concern, is again from there, at a weak pace in the adoption of laws in the Supreme Council. What are you laughing at? Why are you laughing? Think about what you're doing. 11 times the law is passed for consideration; yet, if not conscience, fear of your electorate. And I'm ashamed of those comrades who used to be our partners, and I don't call them names that are now falling out of power. Be healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Dear National Deputies! We've considered the amendments, I think there's been a full procedure. Please. I now put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general, as a law, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the implementation of legislation to the requirements of the Multilateral Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), registration number 7032. (U in m in s a l i) [[12:14:50]] For 261 The law is passed. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 79, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 1, People's Party - 23, Block Timoshenko - 39, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, Ukraine - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 17, Industrial and Business Party - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 4, non-fractional - 19. Three minutes, please sign up for motive after the vote. Sign up for three minutes, please. Sergey Sobolev, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u80	Sobolen. Dear colleagues, I believe that Parliament has made a very balanced decision. At this point, all the issues that existed under this bill, which could in any way have prevented intellectual property from being unprotected, in fact, finally resolved. As far as Internet users are concerned, what applies to computer users in their own needs is the Law that protects their interests. The Law strikes at those who try to enforce their intellectual property by illegal means. And that's what we need to set up a cross. In doing so, this cross should also be placed on those who use this intellectual property, concealing the inaccuracies of data and those who use incomplete legislation. That is why Parliament has made its choice and is very important in favour of order in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u81	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u83	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u84	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, our citizens, I would like once again to emphasize that the principled position of the Communist faction is to protect the national interests of all and, above all, the national producer. The vote now took place, in fact, a national betrayal of the power of nationalists and socialists, who deliberately voted against the interests of and against the people of Ukraine under the American Embassy. Dear voters, I would not like to see our position today as the faction, which, so to speak, today prevents us from resolving any issues. I'd like to remind you once again that you've already eaten cheap meat, you've already arrived at cheap gasoline, you've considered, say, unemployment issues. And now these decisions are increasing unemployment again, and they're increasing social problems, which is what you're worried about. The Communist faction will therefore stand firm for the protection of national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u85	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u86	Dear citizens of Ukraine, our faction clearly wants to state that our own vote is a confirmation that we do not want to compromise Ukraine's interests. And for those who believe populists who claim that national interests are being traced somewhere during this vote, I would suggest: first, to read a well-respected law, to see how there is a special release from the functions of certain control over the import of discs into Ukraine by foreign producers, as these special stamps are being removed for them, a special definition that can be used to capture pirate disks or actual discs. And to go back to when the authorities are specifically controlling and supporting trade, criminalizing laser disc trading and trying to play on their manufacturer -- it's already vile, it's a betrayal of national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we announce a recess, I would like to address you with a big request. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I understand political positions, political sentiments. I have to organize and conduct the work of the Supreme Council in accordance with the Rules. Yesterday we refused an offer that was contrary to the Rules. Today we're working under the Rules. Let's stand up for our approaches and suggestions in the argument process, in the presentation process. I'd like to ask, we've already completed our mission, let's take down the blockade of the rostrum. Believe me, we're not gonna win this, I mean, our position, our authority, our ratings won't win. People don't understand what we're doing here. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, you may have your own opinion, and I respect it and appreciate it. But let's be in the process of either taking a decision or not making a decision, because we are thereby blocking the consideration of other bills that need to be adopted for Ukraine. I'd like to take a break from the factions. Let's not keep score. I come from the fact that from now on we agree that we act in accordance with the Rules, in accordance with the Rules, we act. Please don't push any sides. I will conduct the line that is needed in the interests of Parliament. A middle line that takes all the interests into account. Please, I didn't gather anyone. Dear colleagues, please, I did not gather anyone. I would ask our distinguished fellow journalists not to show the fights that have been here, to show only the positive decisions that we make. If it was emotional, let's just cool down and start working properly. Please. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 50 minutes. And please, if you could do something about the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, please take your seats so that we can continue our fruitful work. We now need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. Well, I say, dear fellows, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the session room. A motion for a return to the consideration of the previously unsupported draft law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures is put to the vote. Registration number 7586. Please vote. [[12:54:03]] For 186 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, by factions. Invite the national deputies to the session room. "Our Ukraine" - 64, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 1, People's Party - 26, Block Timoshenko - 27, SPU - 7, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, "Ukraine" - 15, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 9, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, non-fractional - 8. Yeah, let's postpone the bill. May I have your attention, please? We need to now go back to the draft legislation amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Rates for Certain Oil Cultures. Now, now, one minute. Dear colleagues, I am voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Fees for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops, there are three bills - 5,200, 5200-1, 5200-2. Although there is one project agreed upon. Yes. It's about getting into the agenda. Please vote. [[12:55:57]] For 229 For reasons of vote. I can't do all your teams at the same time. You. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 76, Communist faction - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, National Party - 34, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 0, UNODC - 24, "One Ukraine" - 14, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, SPTU - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 3, "Afterfractional - 10. Now it turns out that we're back on the agenda, now we have to include it, right? I am now voting on the inclusion of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops in the Order of the Day and Short-Term Review. [[12:57:17]] For 233 Decision taken. Please, for reasons of consideration. More precisely, not for reasons, but as you consider the matter, write it down. Three minutes. Alexander Tkalenko, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We're going back a third time to these laws, and I think in order to have a shorter procedure, we're going to look at a government project, because projects 5200 and 5200-1 haven't actually gotten any serious support in the hall. So I suggest we start with a government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u90	Stanislaw Phydenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u92	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, your microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u93	Thank you. Tuck, Communist faction. Dear voters, I think the disgrace that the Supreme Council without Communists today has covered itself is most surprising to me the position of the agrarians and the Head of the Supreme Council, who heads the so-called People's Party of Agrarians. They have disgraced themselves once, voting for the entrance to the WTO, covering the second time, returning to the law so that the sunflower’s seed could be exported. Julia Volodymyrna, as Prime Minister, spoke of the sale of bread. Call me the head of the state who sells bread and buys meat. If you're going to run the state, Julia Volodymyrna, I don't think you're doing your job. Never can a farmer sell bread, sell sunflowers, and buy meat and other products. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u94	For that matter, I think I have a right to a replica, Alexander Mikolaiovich, because there was a reference to me. As far as the so - called elections are concerned. Secondly, I have never criticized the heads of the Supreme Council, and I respect everyone, and I hope for your answer in this regard. Secondly, Alexander Mikolaiovich, in order to decide whether or not to make a decision, needs to be discussed and considered first and then said that this decision cannot be made because it is worse. And the apriors start talking, it's not like that. Let's see, let's figure out, let's not make a decision and that's it. Please. Eugene Kirilchuk, please Block Timoshenko. We're back to looking at this project. I'd like to respect that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u95	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there were no people in the hall when you announced the vote under the first previous law. I ask you to go back to voting on this bill. With regard to the issue already included in the agenda, it is government law that preserves the entire order that is in order to protect its own producer and gradually reduce from growing the production of its own oil. the oil industry, and to reject the two previous bills that virtually destroy the entire oil industry in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. There was an offer to consider only government. If the authors of draft laws refuse or withdraw their proposals, then we will be able to consider exclusively government. Now I have to go according to the rules. There can't be a replica, we exchanged lines. Calm down. Please, calm down. There was a line on the line. All of it! Read the Rules, then you will teach me. Once again, dear colleagues, please calm down. The bill is announced before consideration of 5,200. The author of this bill, Alexander Shevchenko, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Dear radio listeners, dear fellow national MPs! Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dniproperty, People's Party, Volodymyr Litvina faction. The next time the session room is considered is a bill that causes such emotional perception. Last time, I told you that only the draft election bill was introduced more frequently during the last two calls. Unfortunately, we want to "bless farmers" without asking them if they need this kind of charity. Again in the district, I consulted with my men. In our area with a number of representatives, the people who produce the sunflower, these are the areas that are the South of Ukraine, the East, and the Center. In the old position of the manufacturer, the same is true. You don't need a processor's interests, you don't need a speculator's interests, you don't need to mix the goods' interests. The manufacturer is interested in no export restrictions at all. The sunflower. That'll give you a fair price. We haven't been able to pass the law with you, we've only announced it three times since we listened. Already the price in the Donetsk region for a future contract of 1,400 dollars is paid by today’s processors. From 23 percent to 17 percent, the price has risen, and today it is proud of those who protect the processor. I don't want to protect either the processor or anyone else in any way, I want this law to be a fair economy, so that this law, which makes it possible to have seasonal duties, it makes it possible for people who produce sunflowers to have a fair price, to join world prices, to have competition in the morning, and not to have one subject at the expense of another. I would like to emphasize that those people who think that by destroying the peasant, by deepening the crisis situation in the village, we'll expect new technologies, we'll expect an effective economy, we'll expect an effective owner to come, we'll be very wrong. All of Ukraine, unfortunately, works mainly in agriculture for third-generation technology. And this is another indication that such laws are genocide to the village. Such laws do not fit, in my opinion, if my Law is not adopted, I would ask all the national MPs to accept, however liberal the Government Act, which is too soft for a processor, too weak for competition and gives little for a trader. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the report on the draft Law has been completed under registration number 5200. Now the next bill under number 5200-1. Valerius Martinowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, this bill has a long history, it has its own both supporters and bitter opponents, I do not want to offend the opponents, but it seems to me that this is all from ignorance of the laws of the market and basic economic concepts. After a while, it'll only be a bitter smile. I will not dwell on the economic aspects of this bill; they are all known on the basis of their own knowledge and understanding. I just want to acknowledge, call, return, political wisdom, give the Government a chance to prove its validity through practical and economic action. And in their success, I personally and the People's Party faction have no doubt. Therefore, I ask once again to support, if not mine, more so, as my colleague Shevchenko has already said, the liberal Government Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u100	Yes, Economy Minister Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisions the establishment of an export duty on sunflower, flax and rice from January 1st to January 6th, with a further annual decrease of 1% to 10 percent. So it's a period of seven years. I want to point out that since the introduction of export duties in the 99th year, the work of the oil-fat industry has gradually stabilized. The availability of sufficient quantities of sunflower seeds in the Ukrainian market has allowed for the full loading of domestic processing enterprises. Increased competition in the raw market between processing enterprises as a result of increasing production capacity from 3 000 900, is up to 4,500,000 tons on 1 September 2003 at 01.09. 04 sunflower processing has resulted in a substantial increase in purchase prices, which for May of this month amount to about 1545-1550 dollars per tonne, at export prices of about $320. What has been pointed out is practically the parity of the inner and outer markets of sunflower seeds. With regard to the purchase price for sunflower seeds, starting in January 2005, low prices for raw material and low demand in the external market for domestic oil have also been reduced and reached an average of 3,720 dollars per tonne in March. At the same time, I can point out that the government bill proposes setting indicative prices for sunflower, flax and flax seeds, which are exported from Ukraine, which will make it impossible to export this product outside customs territory at prices lower than the world's. So the government is proposing to move very gradually and very carefully to reform this area in order to find at the end of this path a parity of interests between sunflower producers and processors. Please be supportive. And last but not least, this rather harsh position of government in negotiations with the World Trade Organization reached about six months. Finally, we came to such a compromise, both for the benefit of Ukrainian companies and our international obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we need to discuss this now. I'm sorry, Michael Gladys, he's speaking from the committee, and then Oleg Yukhnowsky, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Julia Volodymyrna, distinguished voters. Indeed, the Agrarian Land Policy Committee has considered three bills on this issue: 5200 5200-1 and 5200-2. Our committee supported its own government bill 5200-2. And that's why. First of all, it doesn't break these mechanisms in any way, but rather the rules of the sunflower market that have been in operation for years in our domestic production. Because this is really about reducing the export duty by just one percent. And this figure is not going to affect any reduction in raw materials for our manufacturing companies. By the way, I want to remind you that when export duties were reduced by six percent in 2001, the profitability of sunflower processing has quadrupled. And the second. Above all, the adoption of this minor amendment to the law in force will remove certain obstacles that must be overcome on the way to the WTO. I mean, I think Ukraine will only win by accepting these changes. And the third. In the end, we will allow the government to negotiate with the WTO in particular with the promotion of national interests. Therefore, the Supreme Council does not need to create additional difficulties for a government where they can be avoided. The committee is asking for the support of Bill 5200-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u104	The report. Michael Sich, you're done, aren't you? Oleg Yuhnowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Julius Volodymyrna, respected colleagues. I'm talking to my fellow Communists, let me speak for three minutes, let me express my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u106	Please tell me everything will be fixed for the stenogram. Speak, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this is the issue that the Supreme Council is considering today, if I'm not mistaken, 15 times. In 2001, we made a completely balanced correct decision, reducing the rate from 23 percent to 17 percent, respectively cancelling the tax-delivery conditions and dealing accordingly with the issue of indicative prices. Today, we can be absolutely confident that we have made a completely balanced decision. I'll remind you that at the time, the government also suggested canceling 23 percent to 10 percent. In spite of our position, we made a completely forceful decision. I sincerely hope that today my colleagues will support and actually make a balanced decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, let's move on to a discussion -- two fors, two againsts. Sergey Žizko, please, our Ukraine faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u108	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, the main thesis of opposers of approval of this bill is the protection of the domestic producer, the enterprises involved in the processing of seeds. However, it should be noted that the left-hand part of seed exports belongs to the large agro-firms that provide it for large oil-fat enterprises and are themselves producers of oil. High prices for sunflower oil guarantee an increase in income due to its exports, and thoughtless export of seeds does not suit the interests of large domestic agrofirms. In recent years, there has been a balance in the market, where only that part of the seed that was not needed by the largest domestic oil producers has been exported. So there's no reason to fear the fate of the oil-fat sector in the event of a drop in export duty rates for oil crops. There is a much deeper problem caused by systematic disturbances in the agrotechnology of sunflower cultivation, which threatens the rapid decline in soil fertility. Sunflower cultivation is today the most profitable sector in plant life. Agro-industry enterprises are interested in getting large quantities of seeds and are therefore growing them with technology that allows sunflower seed to be sown more often than once every 6-7 years, taking into account that fertilizers are now a few times less than normal, and that sunflowers are grown exclusively at the expense of natural resources, i.e. by exhausting the fertile properties of soil. The disruption of technology leads to a systematic decline in sunflower yield. It is enough to note that during the last decade, the sunflower’s yield has been reduced by an average of 7 percent annually. This forces agro-enterprises to expand the sown areas under the sunflower and to engage in a closed circle of fertility declines more and more of the soil. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy needs to pay careful attention to this problem -- to ensure that agricultural technology is maintained, to ensure that agrarian producers do not want to gain high incomes through the cultivation of a single crop, but to ensure the scientific validity of the trade union. Then some reduction in sown areas under the sunflower will remove the issue of seed exports, since it will be fully needed by domestic processing companies. So I propose approval of the government bill 5200-2 under consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u109	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin has the floor for the speech. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u110	Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials! I would rename this law and call it right -- "To encourage the exhaustion of Ukrainian motherland and the decline in fertility of Ukrainian land." That's what this law should be called. Now, listen to why. Now there was a representative from the committee who said he thinks we're going to make a balanced decision. He did not specify what the decision was. This decision must be one thing: leave the duty as it is. Why? Because seven years after the harvest, it takes the land to leave, our Ukrainian land. Seven years. And we're going to stimulate all of her burnout. Let's see who's not comfortable with that. It's focused on the export of oil seeds and the depletion of the land, so much of it is being converted into our oil-fat industries. This allows our businesses to export a processed product, or oil, and not its raw material, to provide a large number of people with jobs. Now I want us to look at it economically. I don't take any numbers anywhere, I take the numbers signed by Sergey Anatolyovich on page three: "Financial-Economic Grounding." It gives that a one-percent reduction in the rate is $746 thousand in the United States of America, four-and-a-half million dollars in Ukrainian, in total. I'd like to multiply these millions by seven years, which is proposed to lead to ten. And we're going to get a negative economic result. So we have been given by the Lord the earth, the best land in the world. We're stimulating her burnout. And we say that after that we're patriots of the state. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to approach the adoption of this law very carefully. The country is tired, the land is tired. And it, the earth, deserves to be treated quite differently from what is now being proposed. And it's because of that rate that was reduced to 17, because it was 23, that's just scientifically justified and balanced. This is evidenced even by the dynamics: 68,000 tons of seeds were exported in 2002, 867 in 2003 — 15 times higher, and 354 thousand tons in 2004. Do you want to triple it, triple it? Surrender, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u111	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, today we are discussing with you a matter that seems to be causing very much political emotion, and I would like to talk about whose economic interests are at stake in this issue. It should be noted, however, that today, shoppers who work with a rural producer are trying to maintain their positions as soon as they are able to enter the external market. Exit to the external market wants to do so or leave those who exist there. A particular producer capable of producing flax seeds, sunflowers, rapsa, so that they remain unexploited and therefore receive a gift to the wholesaler, who himself will appoint an in-country price, and the difference between the domestic price and the external price on the external market, respectively, will find a simple and understandable economic interest. If our task with you is to allow the fences to continue to play ball in the agricultural market, then we must oppose it today. If we want the manufacturer to be able to enter the external market on his own and, accordingly, to profit from his products, we must support the bills. Of course, there are controversial beginnings, but I must say, and you will agree with me that the words of thanks to Shevchenko Alexandrovich, Martinovsky Valeri Pavlovich, must be said at least for what they have said. What the Government is now proposing gradually from 17 per cent of the duty to 10 is also logical. And thus, I think that today, as we return to the original theme, if we want to enable the agricultural producer to implement its own products at world prices, we must support the ideas expressed in these bills. And if we want to have political debates, I think we don't have one, some of us do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u113	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u114	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! I now wish to make public the Government which is represented here, including the Prime Minister, and to ask a few questions to which I think the answers are obvious to all of us. I think it's over, but you have to tell the truth in this room. My first question is, "What does the Government really do to bring such bills to Parliament?" They do not seek to improve the economy of Ukraine. This is where Carmazin rightly said that the implementation of this law would result in the loss of our Ukrainian land. But I don't even want to ask that question, I mean. Are you making sure that Ukraine is actually a producer or user of import products? By this bill, you're trying to increase seed exports, but we're going to import sunflower oil, as it was a few years ago. In recent years, in Ukraine, because of the producer's economic support policy, we have become producers of salt oil. 20 per cent, 1/5, of our Ukrainian agricultural exports, these exports of salt oil. Julia Vladimirovna, do you want us to import it? Tell the truth about this people of Ukraine, you rarely tell the people the truth. Let's move on. The introduction of the bill would, in fact, result in the expansion of the sunflower crop and would not be won by the farmer who processes the land, but by the buyers who buy the seeds from them, who export and earn money. What are we up to? You promised the people of Ukraine with President Yushchenko to create jobs. Do you create jobs by this law? Nope. We're going to reduce oil production, we're going to export raw materials, people are going to get jobs abroad, there's going to be wages, and our people are going to pay for imported oil and they're going to pay dearly. Will you ever tell people that truth? I don't think so. You're afraid to say that. And one last moment. By lowering the export tariff, we are, of course, reducing income to Ukraine's budget. Someone counted that amount, Carmazin called some numbers. But why not invest this money in the development of Ukraine's economy? Why not send the money that will lose Ukraine's budget to our producer? Is that the truth anyone's gonna tell? I don't think so. I want people to understand that the government is lying from morning till evening. And these bills are made for only one, and they meet the needs, demands, returns, of the International Monetary Fund. And that is frankly stated in one of the most recent notes by the authors of such a bill, which has been handed down to us. This is what the International Monetary Fund requires of us, and we must do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u115	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, please, the faction of Ukraine. Jaroslav Suhi, please. Microphone from the rostrum turn on, please turn on. What have they ruined? The rostrum microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'm speaking from this rostrum on this bill not for the first time. There's no need to talk about this any more. The timetable that has now taken place in Parliament shows, however, that this bill and all others will be adopted for health. What gave us the use of customs in 2001? Remember, there was a scarecrow like this: you have to take the bribe to zero, because the IMF doesn't give credit. We've set up 17, we've banned the donor scheme. Ukraine took second place in the world after Argentina in oil production, once. The profitability of the sunflower has grown from 22 to 88 percent, two. Prices of oil stabilized, three. The consumption of oil per capita, especially for pensioners, is approaching the standard of our Ukrainian, but not yet European, four. Other facts that might be called: new jobs, stable budgeting, and investment in the processing sector. Why did this problem and misunderstanding arise again in the hall? Two bills of the people's deputies who decided, harshly speaking, would send out a zero bet on taking out the sunflower. That's a shame. I'm an agrarian, and I can imagine with which face you'll go to the polls. I'll come to you where you won't be in Zaporozhye, you'll see me. I suggest you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, Prime Minister. I want to tell you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you'll come, I'll tell you later not to speak in public. Okay? Please, Prime Minister. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please, you. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, I'll tell you later, you'll go with partying. Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the subject of the sunflower seeds. Dear friends, we leave virtually the same situation as it is today, which has ensured the normal work of oil processing companies. And I think that now the vote will make sure that we have everything completely taken into account: both the interests of peasants and the interests of processors. And I'm asking you to support this bill of government that supported a professional agrarian committee that knows better than anyone what peasants need.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! You're in Parliament, please. Dear people's deputies, well, I beg of you, exclude me, I beg of you. Dear colleagues, you're in the Supreme Council, don't make fun of people. You're not protecting the Ukrainian people here in comfortable conditions, you're protecting all your own political interests. Calm down, and in the process of discussion, let us ask questions. What's normal or what? Please, calm down. I'm not insulting anyone. Calm down. I'm asking you again. What is it? Calm down. I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, to sit down. It's not for the protection of the people. Calm down. Please calm down, take your seats, please. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, please. Calm down, dear fellows. What are you turning the Supreme Council into? Calm down. I'm the faction leaders, please. I'm asking the faction leaders to take your seats, please. Please calm down. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please. I'm asking you, stop it, you're a normal person. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. We're about to proceed to the vote. Please take your seats. I'm asking you again. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. You demanded to follow the Rules. Action follows the Rules. What else do you want? Yes, the honourable national MPs, according to the Rules, are the first to be adopted as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 5200]] The author of the project is Alexander Shevchenko, please identify yourself. [[13:33:32]] For-31 Puts to the vote for adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 5200]] Author: Alexander Shevchenko, please. Based on the base. Please be sure. [[13:34:24]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Puts to the vote for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 5200-1, author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Valery Martinowski, please identify yourself. [[13:35:01]] For-19 The decision is not taken. There is a draft bill for adoption on the basis of registration number 5200-2, where a government bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Rate Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops is put to the vote. [[13:35:38]] For 238. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, decisions are made not because you're blocking them, but if there was a normal procedure, there would be another result. The factions, please. I'll tell you myself. "Our Ukraine" - 79, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine regions" - 1, People's Party - 32, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 0, UNODC - 24, "Ukrainian One" - 18, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, SPTU - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Prefaction 12. I'd like to say, my dear colleagues, to the scream that I'm saying in an unorthodox language. There's no such thing in my vocabulary. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please! Calm down, don't touch each other! Would you calm down, please? Well, please don't touch it. Dear colleagues, we need you. Please don't touch each other, don't use force! Please! We need to now consider the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of short-term bills. [[I'm begging you! Well, please, let's work! Please don't touch each other! Please don't touch! Please don't touch each other!]] [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to stop fighting! I beg of you, dear fellows! Well, don't touch each other! Please, wow! Please don't touch each other! The issue is: the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, registration number 7563. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:23]] For-123 Questions are not included in the agenda. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 19, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 19, Block Timoshenko - 20, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, "One Ukraine" - 18, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfractional" - 5. Now, honourable colleagues, the bill on export duties for waste and scrap of black metals is now being voted on for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the reduced procedure, the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Wastes and Black Metals, a new edition. Registration number 7565. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:30.]] For 232 The law is included in the agenda, it is a registration number, I recall 7565, a new draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Exports of Customs and Black Metals. Reporter: Minister of Economy Teryohin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the draft law that was passed out in the hall in exchange for the above, you will see that this is about lifting the ban on the scrap metal and further setting up banning export duties. Article 3 of the bill. Since the entry into force of this law, goods that are now exported in the form of junk have been removed from free trade regimes with foreign countries. The adoption of such a standard is based on the need to ensure the effectiveness of the implementation of the bill. Article 4 of the bill states that exportation of goods listed in Article 1 of this Act is subject to acceptance by the Ministry of Industry in order not to re-sort such goods when the form of non-colour metals is exported in color. Article 5 amends the Law on Metallurgy as regards the introduction in the new edition of article 9. A standard is introduced that, within five years of the law’s enactment, their exports of scrap metal, alloys, and coloured metal products are carried out by purely specialized metallurgical processing enterprises for which this product is manufactured for the availability of an expert certificate of quality. Other changes will be made. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that all these changes are fully agreed upon by manufacturers and consumers of scrap metal with the Committee on Industrial Policy, signed and recommended for adoption in the first reading and generally as a law. No comments. Yes, there are no comments. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the request from the government and the committees of profile is to enact this law. This project as a law, it's all pre-empted and confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u121	Anatoly Seminoga. Please record Anatoly Seminoga from the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The bill is a fully harmonized version of the law between all interested entities. At a committee meeting, the bill was discussed and adopted, and it was recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the law as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u123	You already have it, don't you? Yeah, let's get down to business. That table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please. Where's Carmazin? Microphone, please. Get ready for Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! This is the one of today's series of laws that has really been given a completely new edition. I'm asking you to listen to who's holding up on work right now. This is a completely new edition and even a new one. the name of the law. He, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is not like you put that name to the vote. It's now called "To repeal the export ban on the export of alloyed black metals, the scrap metal and semi-manufactured metals." I would like to draw your attention to the fact that everything that contradicted the national interests of Ukraine has been removed from this law. We can vote for him today. And especially I warn you and I say you can vote because it is now recorded in paragraph 3 "as this law becomes effective, the goods listed in article 1 of this law are removed from free trade regimes with foreign countries. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine informs foreign countries of such removals within a month." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have included this law with 232 votes, number 7565, with a different name. I'm paying attention to you because there might be a misunderstanding. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that I may not be able to hear me, but I'm asking this to be reflected in our protocol, that this is a completely new law, and this is where the government needs to be supported, and this is where it can be adopted. This law is now agreed upon by both the professional committees and the parliamentary groups and the associations involved in the production of the goods we have in Ukraine. Unlike the first law on laser disks, which today are practically State interests, this law can be adopted both in the first reading and in the second reading. I will simply remind you that the second paragraph states that the foreign currency is listed in the currency at the official rate of Nazbank for the day of the customs declaration, and that the foreign currency is credited by the customs authorities and paid by the entities to the budget exclusively at the cost before or during the customs treatment of the goods. So I ask you to put to the vote first in the first reading, then, when there's no comment, put it in general. This law can be adopted. It does not conflict with the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u125	Alexy Kozachenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to draw first attention to what the previous speaker said. We voted for the same number of laws and for the essence of that law, which the Supreme Council had rejected twice. But I emphasize that this law is completely redesigned and harmonized, and it has another name, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. That's the name: "To lift the export ban on scrapping. black metals, scrap metal, and semi-prefabricated metals." The laws have been reworked to protect domestic goods, domestic metallurgical enterprises. This is agreed with the association, it is agreed with all market participants. So I ask the Supreme Council to support this law in the first reading, in the second and in general. The standards are fully developed. I would like to emphasize again. An absolute, 100% protected domestic manufacturer. Thank you for your attention. Please turn your attention to procedural matters in the name of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u127	Yuri Solomatin, please. You won't? Solomatin won't speak? Does the word convey to anyone? Yes, Sergey Matvienkov, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, of course, speaking in such situations is very difficult, but I would like to say, after all, a few words for the radio audience. It's not a very simple question. The export of the colored scrap is one of the problems we've been fighting for six, seven, even the last few years. We've done everything we can to come up with this scheme. And I'm going to tell you honestly, the interference in these two laws in my own right now is causing me a lot of fear and doubt. Since all of this can bring us back to the times when cables were cut, lifts, elevators, etc. were smoked. We have written out ISO 9002, we have created normal conditions for our export-related enterprises: Interspoil, Odessa Cable Plant, Artemovski and to date these are working enterprises. However, to take such a step, I think that this bill, if adopted, would only have to be adopted on first reading, in order to make the most detailed analysis, with what effect would it have? So that we don't invade the country again when the tax collectors don't know where to put their stuff when we see broken equipment. When we see the electric motors down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u129	Solomonine's handing over the right to speak to Peter Simonck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u130	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respected citizens of Ukraine! We are with you when, by agreement, the oligarchs are trading everything today, even the scrap metal. And it's kind of weird to ask a question. That today, a world or a world-wide trading organization imposes requirements for the export of scrap metal. Don't ask us, give us high-quality machines, give us good equipment, give us the opportunity to use your high-tech products today, and the World Trade Organization is demanding. And today, the oligarchs are fighting for dumping scrap metal in the Azov Sea, and then, let's say, at the border, they got VAT on exported products, and the nails were loaded in the sea. That's what a struggle is all about, respectable voters. That's why a faction of communists is so hard to protect their interests that the scrap metal comes into our metalwork combinations so that you can have a job so you can have a salary so that we don't have to turn Ukraine into garbage today. Because they're turning into dirty technologies. We are producing raw materials for Europe here. And today, nationalists and socialists are handing over and selling their native Ukraine. That is why a faction of communists requires, before considering issues that are relevant to the export of raw materials, and, more so, strategic raw materials, to be based on national interests. And those who vote come from the interests of their personal pocket, their arrangements, their surpluses, and so on. Therefore, honourable and dear voters, I would like to inform you once again that the Communist faction will stand firm for the protection of national interests and will not allow the Government of Nationalists and Socialists to trade in Ukraine today simply by selling today. Started in 90 years with the sale of children. In fact, this is precisely in the territory of the areas from which nationalist parties are represented. Trade in children, trade in women today and trade in Europe. All of Ukraine has been disgraced throughout Europe. The resolution was adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, condemning Ukraine for trafficking in women and children. Today, the last nail is sold from Ukraine. That is why the Communist faction today condemns such criminal practices. And I ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you represent Parliament, and this is the people of Ukraine. You're the head of Parliament, so you're the head of the people. And if you vote by means of these treasonous laws today, you are certainly also complicit in crimes in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please! They're not here yet! Well, please, don't worry. Dear colleagues, dear Peter Mikolaiovich, have personally accused me of so many crimes that I am no longer intimidated by this crime. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u132	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear radio listeners, we are witnessing that the Socialist Party is clearly defending the interests of the Ukrainian people. We have supported and will support the government in a direction where we believe that there are no violations of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution. Now I ask you to give Joseph the word to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u133	Honorable national MPs, since the discussion is over, what? Ah, Melniczuk gives it to Boko. Boki, right? Who? Oh, Winsky. Please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Communist leader Peter Simonenko is quick to lie: Socialists do not support these bills, as stated in the statement of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. So I would like to ask Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka to apologize for the obvious lie that he has given to the air today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, discussion of the draft law. What? I can't hear anything. The draft law has been finalized. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the precise wording of the name of the law, this is the name of the bill, which is the draft law on the abolition of the export ban on the export of legal black metals, the scrap metal and semi-manufactured metals from the use of them instead of Ukraine's draft amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, registration number 7565. Based on the base. [[13:55:01]] For 242 Decision taken. We took it for granted. Dear colleagues, I can't put up for this. Well, you know what's gonna happen. Well, what are you talking about? The factions, please. Well, do you want them to break everything or what? "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communist faction - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, National Party - 31, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 0, UNODC - 24, "One Ukraine" - 17, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, SPTU - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, Postfraction - 16. Dear colleagues! Well, please, let me say, then turn it on. Dear colleagues, I can't put it in general, because then I will break the Rules, the whole Parliament will be ruined. Well, I can't put it. We continue our work for 15 minutes. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Customs to Live Animals and Leather Raw Materials, 7567, a new edition. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:35]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communists, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 23, Block Timoshenko - 39, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, "One Ukraine" - 18, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 4, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Afterfractional" - 14. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Come on in. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let me tell you! Since we've continued the question, we've continued our work for 15 minutes, let's consider including at least two bills to further determine the procedure of work. [[I'm begging you!]] The draft Act on the Use of Certain Agricultural Products for State Interventions, registered number 7311, is put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:58:28]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. What's not working? Well, please, dear fellows! I'll tell you what! Well, one minute! "Our Ukraine" - 78, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 16, Block Timoshenko - 39, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, "Only Ukraine" - 19, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17 Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfractional" - 16. [[running]] [[running]] [[running]] [[Cannot initialise ……]] [[running]] I went on for 15 minutes. Honorable colleagues, for they are. Well, please! To make sure something doesn't work, I'm voting on who's to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7311 on the use of certain agricultural products for State intervention. Please vote. [[13:59:54]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I've announced an extension of 15 minutes, all according to the Rules. I've announced it before! No, no, I announced in five minutes! Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 7274. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, there goes the vote. [[14:01:04]] For 249 Questions are included in the agenda. First deputy head of the National Bank of Shapovalov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u136	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Act on Amendments to the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, prepared by the National Bank for the purpose of legal settlement of the issue of granting foreign banks the right to open and carry out banking activities in Ukraine. In fact, there were two basic reasons for working on the bill. First. On November 10, 1994, Ukraine ratified the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and thus committed itself to allowing branches of banks to access their market. It's different. This is again a situation that is explained by joining the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organization. In addition, a bill prepared for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law "On the Universal Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to. The European Union" of 18 March 2004" has taken steps to complete Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organisation approved by the President's decree, as well as recommendations based on parliamentary hearings on the implementation of state policy, Ukraine's integration into the European Union since 17 January 2002, 28 November 2002 and 15 May 2003. We believe that granting foreign banks the right to create their branches in Ukraine will not in any way endanger Ukraine's economic sovereignty, but will contribute to the active development of Ukraine's banking system through the broad involvement of foreign capital, the application of modern banking technologies, the expansion of spectrum and the quality of banking services. Considering that Ukraine's legislation allows and allows foreign banks to be present in Ukraine's banking system through the control of national banks and the establishment of subsidiaries with foreign capital, it can be concluded that granting foreign banks the right to open branches in Ukraine will not bring about radical changes in the current situation, nor will it result in the expansion of a large number of foreign banks' branches into Ukraine's market. According to practice, the mass outflow of foreign capital is important in two cases. First. During the massive banking crisis and mass bankruptcy. It's different. The government. Targets foreign banks into the national economy. Today, in Ukraine, the first option is impossible, and the second one is unlikely. For example, in some Eastern and Central European countries, which are now members of the European Union, the consequences of the exit of foreign banks to their markets can be considered. So in Hungary, the main route that foreign banks have chosen to enter the market. the acquisition of local banks, not the opening of branches. In Poland, the flow of Western banks has increased competition, raised standards for lending, or expected. The consumption was largely satisfied. Only one foreign bank has chosen the way to open branches in operations in Poland. It is also important to note that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Sergei Burjak, Head of the Committee, please. Very briefly, please. To prepare for the draft of the decision on inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee has carefully considered this bill and has asked it to be supported only in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u139	Leonid Chernewicki, please microphone. There is a draft decree on the inadmissibility of this Law. Is there a Chernewsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down for a second. I would like to read out to the Parliamentary faction the People's Union of “Our Ukraine”, which responsibly declares that any media report by the public tax service, the alleged failure to pay taxes in banks, is a provocation. Such irresponsible statements by the Administration are unprofessional, detrimental to the economy of Ukraine and citizens. And requests the President of Ukraine to intervene in this process in order to halt the flow of this dirty information on air. And I will personally ask that Kyreyev be expelled from his job because he is a criminal after he claims to be in the media. This is also true of the bill that has been tabled to shut down banks. It's a bad bill, I think, and it has to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u141	Yes, Your Honor, before we go to the discussion, we need to consider a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Act amending the Banks and Banking Act. Author Leonid Chernewicki. He's just justified his position. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Banks and Banking Act. [[Registration number 7274/P]] [[14:07:19]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the discussion. Carmazine's microphone. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Party, I have repeatedly demanded that the National Bank of Ukraine amend the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine. I have repeatedly, as the Party of Protectors of the Motherland, her representative in Parliament, asked questions about the cost of loans. Because today people who retire on their salary can't get loans to buy housing, to buy other goods of widespread use. If we are in the country for competition and in all sectors we allow this competition, why is there no competition in the banking field today? Why is there now lurking about this law? Because serious things are being suggested here, it offers the order of the opening of branches and the representations of banks in the territory of Ukraine to be introduced into the national regime. And the National Bank will control the opening and operation of these banks or branches of banks and will have the right to decide whether to terminate branch transactions for the benefit of or at the direction of customers if the disclosure information by the bank of its branch contains false information or the activity does not meet the requirements of Ukrainian law and the legal acts of the National Bank. The foreign bank or its branches will have the right to open a branch in Ukraine only if the country where the foreign bank is registered does not belong to States that do not engage in international cooperation in preventing and combating the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and the financing of terrorism, and cooperates with the group on the development of financial measures to combat money-laundering. At a time when banking supervision in a country that is registered by a foreign bank is in line with the basic principles of effective banking supervision. It's about banking supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to have cheap loans in the state, and so that a bunch of bankers don't take advantage of the Ukrainian mountain, representing 13 to 20 percent of what they don't own, the money that the National Bank gives them for it, we have to vote in favour of that law. Because it improves the position of every Ukrainian. I emphasize, it improves the situation. And for what he does better, I am willing to vote for him today and in the first reading, there will be no comments, and in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u143	Yuri Solomatin, microphone, please. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u144	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u145	We'll all go to the Communist faction. It's okay to perform, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u146	Respectable colleagues, respected compatriots. We witnessed today the second stage of the anti-national road, which took place last December in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This path continues. And if you, my beloved and destitute people, think that here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 300 million members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will press buttons for your interests, you are deeply mistaken. Moreover, in the last fiscal year, the number of millions in Ukraine increased from 854 to 1600. Think, then, of the destitute deluded people for whom you vote in every election! A faction of communists is calling to you again and again, because we have no one else to turn to: wake up, stand up around your mother-in-law, and together we will send the stories of those who take part in this anti-national path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u147	Masters, factions of the People's Party. Now, let's finish the question, call it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u148	Vladimir Mystrishyn, People's Party faction, Žmerinské electoral district number 14. It's very sad that in such an atmosphere we can release very important and necessary laws to our economy. You know, today, if you analyze the state of banking in Ukraine, we're the only closed banking system left in the world. We are not allowing any competition today in the supply of banking services to our population. What does that mean? It means that we can only go to the nearest bank today. Maybe he's not the biggest, but he's the closest. I'm here to give our people a choice today. And I know that this bill was being considered by the Committee on Finance and the Banking System, and there were a lot of interesting and important proposals about the banking system, including our bankers. I think the system that exists in Ukraine today does not allow us to talk about such nice, interesting bank loans for the population. Let's say today, I see that our fellow MPs, they've approached the people, let's ask the people today, and does he agree that today he can only borrow money from our Ukrainian banks, not be able to get loans under 20-25 years of age to build the same apartment? Let's ask young people today, would they want to get a 4-5 percent loan today? I'm not saying it's going to be tomorrow, I'm saying that any competition will give us the opportunity today to move on this path gradually. And in the end, I think I also have to say that unfortunately, today we have a system where agriculture works in a regime that essentially restricts access to bank loans. Let us pay attention to what the village suffers more? The village today suffers the most from the lack of long - term loans. People good, let's give the peasants a 3-4-5 year loan, although there's no more than 10 percent there, and you'll see that nothing else for the village, and you don't need a peasant to be forced to sell it in the fall, because he has to pay the loan back. Unfortunately, our banking system gives us six months, no more, in the autumn, to return bank credit even though the lowest prices are during harvesting. And then so that a peasant, with a long loan, could work on long - term lending today. I propose to support this bill, more than that, I think it's right now and is most important in this package that is being proposed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u149	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u150	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I would like to take the floor to Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u151	Peter Simonenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u152	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Do you find it strange that we are considering, at the request of the World Trade Organization, how foreign capital will be presented through their banking system in Ukraine? The first conclusion, in the years of reforms, so-called economics, to which those present in the Government are involved, we have our national currency, our bracelet, in fact, fully attached to the dollar. That's the first one. Secondly, the banking structure that has been reformed and established in Ukraine is subject to industrial capital to destroy and create speculative capital. The third question is, today, Ukraine's economic activities, pricing and other activities depend on the New York or English Exchange. The people of Ukraine are suffering as is the case with quotations, including foreign banking structures, and the third skin of our people. Therefore, the faction of communists has repeatedly called on experts to address industry leaders, calling on those who consciously perform their function and the task of the people's MP today again and again: there is no way to vote until we can put order in our banking system, until we create the opportunity for working capital of banks to work today on the national economy, when we do not clearly establish credit rates in banks that are not profiting and eating each other, and for other machines, jobs are taken by sinking it into scrap metal! That is why we demand that today order, first of all in our banking system, to create a normal credit policy, to channel it to specific programmes that will enable today's jobs to be created, to fill the internal market, to regulate prices that will allow today's standard of living to be improved. Thus, the same American and Western transnational corporations today are being set up with specific banking structures, which are necessarily because they will be more economically powerful to destroy those banking structures or absorb what they are, and will necessarily destroy industrial capacity balances as competitive capacities in the markets of Europe and Ukraine. That is why, dear fellows, I repeat to you and speak to our voters, I address the Government, and I declare that the Government of Nationalists and Socialists - and let my colleagues here today talk about nothing else - because it is precisely in the Government that there are specific representatives of the Social Party who are fulfilling this social order. Once again, I call on no one to vote on the demand for international finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Banking Act and Banking for Branches of Foreign Banks, registration number 7274, has been completed. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 7274. [[14:19:40]] For 246 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Considered the basis. Before we announce a recess, at the request of two factions to make a statement by Mikola Eutychyevich Melnik, please. He's right. We accepted as the foundation in the first reading! What? Dear colleagues, if you want us to. Well, please. I can't break the Rules right now, they won't let me work at all. Understand me, Stepan Ilkovich! Microphone, please, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. President! Because I am addressing you, Victor Andryovich, and therefore I ask you to consider my speech as a direct request to you. Last week, members of the Party "Our Ukraine" celebrated the participants in the Orange Revolution -- entrepreneurs who, in a difficult moment, despite their own security and business interests, became side by side with the democratic opposition to prevent Ukraine from being turned into a prison zone. Yet, the rewards were almost empty in the hall. Why? So, Victor Andryovich, nothing has changed for these people at all. I officially claim to be today. Ukraine has a very dangerous criminal Iushenko clan, which revives bushmism in its most ugly forms. The activity of this clan is as cynical and immoral as possible. They are trying to occupy Ukraine, and national deputies are complaining to the taxpayer that Dustenko is leading the whole - country process of laundering the shadow money associated with the abuse around the value added tax. Customs complain that Peter Poroshenko is the leader and organizer of smuggling operations and is fully in control of the Customs through his stand. It is reported that Peter Prashenko and Trelyakiv are trying to restore the shadow stream to the NAC "Nafta Ukraine". Don't look at the businesses you don't talk to. Everybody's got one word on their mouth. Ukraine is groaning from your secretary's fair, which people call "The Joy of Robbed Business" by means of such as Dustenko. Now, let's talk about the main thing. I have specific facts and real documents that very eloquently characterize Peter Poroshenko on the moral side that I'm going to talk about in the media after I speak. Think about the following. On October 6, 200, in the midst of fighting the Kuchma criminal regime, just at the time, Victor Andryovich, when you were poisoned by the previous gang, and the opposition was torn apart, the Mrija bank, controlled by Prashenkom, came into contact with the National Bank through a secret order of the RNBU, number 473 with the classified Griffith "Bankowska Mystery", received a half-million-dollar loan of 50 million dollars. We all know very well who and why we gave credits of this magnitude during the reign of Cuchma. I also demand that my statement and the facts presented be considered an official request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Svetoslav Piscona, head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u155	Thank you. 30 seconds, please, since we've worked so hard, let's finish beautifully.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u156	. The internal affairs of Yuri Lucenka. Dear National Deputies! Our Motherland is in danger today. Because of people like Peter Poroshenko, he was threatened. millions of honest people who are waiting for new power to be given to action and decision. People like the secretary of the NPB are discrediting power, dishonoring Ukraine and the people, putting a cross on our Ukraine to the civilized world. Victor Andryovich, today you have an unprecedented loan of popular trust. The people believe you and hope that you will be able to build a normal, prosperous country, but with one. Like Peter Dustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Thank you, Mikola Eutychyevich. Thank you, you're on. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say what we have. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like to do it this way, because we've had an active job like this today, normal. I think we're gonna calm down. I think they'll understand me. I'm sorry. But now there was this proposal, and the faction leaders are coming to me to continue our one-hour meeting tonight. I can only put it up, only, I can put it to a vote in the morning session. So I'm making this proposal to continue the evening session for 1 hour. Please vote. Well, one vote, we've finished the morning session, well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m0.u158	The BUT faction and our Ukraine have written this requirement. Well, I've put up some respectable colleagues, come on. [[14:25:24]] For 251 Decision taken. The evening session will begin at 4:00 p.m. and will end at 7:00 p.m. At 16 o’clock, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will address us. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our break until 4:00, continue our work after recess.
