ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:43]] There were 398 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. One minute, now. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 16, 2005. We've considered three issues of the agenda: two bills and one draft decree. One law has been passed as a whole, one bill has not obtained the necessary number of votes, and one decree has been passed. [[is meant by the law on ratification]] Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the entry of Ratushý Mikhail Jaroslavovich as part of the Ukrainian People's Party's Deputy faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Mihajlovich, from the MP's "Region of Ukraine" and his membership in the MP's "Will of the People" group. About the National Deputy of Ukraine Gorlova Gennadija Vasilovich, who is part of the "Will of the People" Group. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pak Volodymyr Petrovich into the "Our Ukraine" faction. Yes, with good motives, please sign in with the procedure, more precisely. Please sign the procedure for three minutes. Gunnery Eugene, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u2	The miner, the faction of our Ukraine, the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Vladimir Mikhailovich, today there are about 60 questions in the agenda. Do you think we can get through them? I mean, what's the point of my offer? What we have to do is sort out our order of work, take real jobs and do things. Hence, it may not be that we are pursuing socialistic or capitalistic obligations but that we are working on quality. So the proposals for two are to make a normal order of the day, and the second is to define how to adopt the budget, how we're going to work next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u3	Yes, Vladimir Matviev, please, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On March 15, the Supreme Council reaffirmed that we would do anything to honor the memory and celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. That's why I'm asking you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to give an order to the Cabinet of Ministers, in this case the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to call temporarily for consultations by Ambassador of Ukraine from Latvia in view of the fact that the official government and official government of Latvia supported the Nazis and defended the parade of "Essessians' chiefs" and arrested those who protested against such actions. I ask you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an order to suspend our ambassador from Latvia for consultations on this crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u7	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council is being accused of another time that we don't seem to want to look at the budget somewhere, that we're getting budget changes again, that's what they're threatening us with. We don't mind considering, but there are a few shades. First, yesterday on the budget committee, it was found, completely unprepared, the government is not even ready to present a budget, I think we have the weakest minister of finance for the entire period of the Ukrainian state. In addition, we are being imposed, and it is likely that today or tomorrow will be the day - to - day issue of changing the work of the Supreme Council. Before we ask this question, I would like to really have guarantees that there will be a budget, and we will be able to fully consider it, because, as it looks, there's a whole series of holes that are not really going to be filled. There is fear that there will be no subsidies to local wage increases, there is fear that inflation mechanisms will be unleashed, and there will be a colossal blow to Ukrainian exporters. This should therefore be done in accordance with the normal budgetary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Regarding Eugene Hoornik’s observation, a respected colleague is right. But the point is that these are committee proposals, and during the Conciliation Board meeting, representatives of parliamentary groups and factions make demands to include in the schedule of meetings and to consider some issues. We really have to come out of how real we can look at full-blown drafts and plan our work accordingly. I think on the next Conciliation Council we're going to have a discussion on this particular problem. With regard to the budget and the budget changes, as Eugen Górnik and Taras Crnovil spoke. We discussed this issue on Monday, my fellow Members, on March 14, during the meetings of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and agreed unanimously, in a practical, unanimous manner, that we would anticipate one day for a plenary meeting, whether on March 14 or 25, by making a decision if the government said it was ready to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the 2005 budget, with such a view that the Supreme Council had the opportunity to study this document for three days, and appropriate proposals on the procedure for dealing with this issue were already proposed. There's an appropriate draft decision, I think we'll figure it out. But at the same time today, a government representative in the Supreme Council would ask that the position be clearly fixed when the Supreme Council receives this document. As for Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek's proposals, I think let's do it this way. I ask Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski, head of the committee, to study this issue and make appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council so that we do not go beyond our authority. Is there no objection? I'd like to take a quick look at these proposals. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the issues identified for today’s meeting. The question of the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies is being answered. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday the committee considered and supported a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Zinchenka Aleksandra Aleksejyovich on the time-limit for his appointment as State Secretary of Ukraine. The committee decided to bring the Supreme Council to a review of the draft Ordinance on the Early Cessation of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Zinchenka Aleksandra Alexiyyovich, registration number 7195, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[10:12:37]] For 332 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u12	An application to the Supreme Council has also been made for the permanent composition of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skomarovsky Vladimir Volodymyrovich, in connection with his appointment as head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. Therefore, the committee is introducing a draft decree on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Skomarovsky for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the suspension of the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovic, is submitted to the vote. Registration number 7194. [[10:13:47]] For 342 Decision taken. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, with the application for permanent representation of MPs, the national deputy Red Vasil Mikhajlovich also appealed in connection with his appointment as head of the Ternopil district. Oh, please. Equally District State Administration. Therefore, the committee also proposes to make an appropriate decision to suspend the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u15	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Redwoni Vasil Mihajlovich is put to the vote. Registration number 7193. [[10:14:57]] For 350. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Given that I think there will be a question now, and what is the state of affairs with other co-sponsors today, I would like to inform the Supreme Council on this issue. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Thus, after we have adopted the relevant decrees of the Supreme Council, we are now being reconciled with or continue to reconcile our positions with the MP’s mandate to carry out the other duties of the 25 national deputies. In particular, in Government 9, including 7 ministers, these include Zwania, Minister of Education and Science, Phinehas, Polish Minister of Health, Tarasyuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Minister of Transport and Communications. By the way, as we learned, there was a statement by Eugene Alfredovich to the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, it hasn't arrived yet. [[With a commission, I mean, the leadership of the Supreme Council.]] As soon as we get there, we'll take a quick look at this issue and make proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council. In addition, respected colleagues, heads of district government, national deputies also combine the MP’s mandate to perform these duties, that is, with the public service. These are the National Deputies: Artemenko, Head of the Zaporozhye District Administration, Atrovchenko, Head of the Chernigiv District Administration, Baloga, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, Bondar, Head of the Wallin Observatories, Bulba, Head of the Poltava District Administration, Žebrovski, Head of the Žitomierski Obljid Oblast, Jętak, Head of the Kiev District Administration, Johnov, Head of the Sevastopol State Administration, Oliynik, Head of the Lviv Oblast, Stojko, Head of the Ternopil State Administration, Tak, Head of the Ivano-Frankov State Administration, and Tsuko, Head of the State Department of State. By the way, 10 of them are elected in one of the constituencies. In addition, they combine the public service with a parliamentary mandate and a number of national deputies who hold appropriate public, high public office. This is, first of all, Poshenko Peter Alexiyovich, Secretary for National Security and Defence, this is Steckov Taras Stepanovich, President of the National Television Company. This is Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich, head of the Ukrainian service, Ivchenko Olexy Grigorovich, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. And as for Green Igor Alexiyovich. As appointed by the director of the National Institute of Strategic Research, he submitted to the Committee yesterday an appropriate explanation and documents stating that he was performing his duties, these duties on public grounds. The committee will also study the matter and make appropriate suggestions to the Supreme Council. On March 3, this year, the Committee sent letters to all of Ukraine’s designated national deputies, reminding them that by March 10 they had been asked to determine their place of work, or to apply for their term of office. However, the answer to the committee’s address did not come, except for Greenview, as I mentioned earlier. Therefore, according to what was said yesterday, the committee decided to recommend to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in accordance with the requirements of section 2, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u17	Allow me to finish my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u18	apply to the court in 10 days for the suspension of the powers of Ukraine's national deputies as decided by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u19	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. I see there's a lot of people here, so let's write it down. Three minutes. Please sign in. Valentin Grigorovich. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u20	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass the word to the lawyer Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u21	Vladimir Stretovic, please. It's not a question, it's just motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u22	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, reverend Valentin Grigorovich. We realize that the issue that is being discussed today is important. And my position is that every executive has a mandate. And this process, as we can see, is coming. Every day we virtually release someone and suspend them. But I have a question for Valentin Grigorovich. Why do you insist on every statement you make when you have a time-consuming termination of a specific person who has filed a claim, but you turn it into an agitation against the government that they do not make a claim to this day that they are acting in an appropriate manner and thus discredit the government's activities for a certain period of time? I think the time will come, and each of them will make a statement to you based on their own motives. Thank you. You didn't do it before when we had and you were swearing in the government, and Slava was in the government, and others were in the government, but then you kept quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u23	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. But I want to tell you that the Rules Committee doesn't have any rules, they don't have double standards. As before, we have initiated the submission to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of his appeal to the Court of Appeal to the Court of Appeal for the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputies you spoke of. So now that there is a gross violation of the requirements of article 38, the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the articles of the third Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, we cannot but respond to this. What is more, there is a constant appeal to the committee, to individual members of the committee, that it is necessary to put an end to this gross violation of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u24	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u25	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u26	Peter Simonenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u27	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I declare that from the next plenary week, the Communist faction will act adequately that, in violation of the law, the faction of “Our Ukraine” and its representatives in power today do not constitute powers and thus violate the Constitution. That's a first. Second. I declare that they are going to elections and to power with clean hands. First of all, I remind you again, I'd like to hear from you whether they've returned their wages. The Ministers of Zhwana, Nikolaenko, Pinsenik, Polischuk, Tarasjuk, Terehin, Crvenkovski have already received salaries as ministers and have received parliamentary money. Second. The Heads of Administration of Atroszczenko, Bondar, Bulba, Ivanov have also received salaries and MPs, in grave violation of Ukrainian laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u28	I asked the Secretariat to study this information when you published it yesterday. Safiulin, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u29	Request to pass on the word of Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u30	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I really want to ask you about that. Where are the employment books of those now assigned to the executive branch? And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you personally: if you have a telephone call or a meeting with President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine in the near future, please ask, because he promised two weeks ago, publicly stated that he would have an impact in such a way that in a few days all the powers of those who were assigned will be laid down. If he does not influence his subjects, it will really discredit both the new power and the new president today. So let's define this: if there is an attitude to the openness of power, to the democraticity of power, to the fact that it has shown respect for the Constitution, please, that they have authority, and the Supreme Council has not constantly considered this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u32	Thank you. I'm answering your question for the first part about work books. Under an agreement that exists between the committee and the administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the work books are to be given to national deputies who have not yet obtained parliamentary powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u33	Yes, thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, we have already translated into the scope of the discussion the problem of the early termination of the parliamentary powers of those national deputies who have written the relevant statements. The question of the election of Ukraine’s national deputy Korja as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. The reporter is Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a committee meeting, an application was made for the election of National Deputy Korža Vitaliy Terentiyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transportation, housing and communications. As you recall, he took an oath, and his parliamentary authority was confirmed by the Order of the Central Election Commission. Considering that the calculated quota for the parliamentary faction of the electoral bloc of Yulia Timoshenko on the committees is today 0.8 and on the committee noted. There is no representative of this faction today, i.e. no one, the quota, thus this faction is not used, and the committee has decided to support the application of the People's Deputies of Korja and to make a draft decision for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the People's Deputy Korža Vitaliyyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transport, housing and communications. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please proceed to the vote? A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Korža Vitaliyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transport, housing and communications is being put to the vote. Registration number 7196. [[10:28:57]] For 306 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, acting on its decision, concluded that according to paragraph 16 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was to consider the question of the appointment and dismissal of the head and other members of the Court of Auditors. The Supreme Council of Ukraine shall, when considering the matter, take appropriate decisions on candidates who are released or appointed. Thus, on January 17, 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to release the members of the Court of Auditors in connection with the completion of the term of office. Fifth year, I apologize. On the basis of the requirements of part six of article 10 of the Law of the Ukraine on the Court of Auditors, the First Deputy and Deputy Head, the Chief Supervisors and Registrar of the Court of Auditors are appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Head of the Court of Auditors. Thus, on this basis, the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, submitted a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for nominations for the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee at its meetings on January 11 and March 14, 2005, reviewed the proposals made by the head of the Court of Auditors regarding the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. During the discussion of the matter, the head of the Court of Auditors noted the high professional level of each of the candidates he proposed. The committee also reviewed the relevant draft regulations of the Supreme Council for your consideration. They refer to the appointment of the members of the Rakunkov Chamber : Jaremenka Aleksandra Stepanović, Deputy Head of the Rakunkovy Chamber, Yuhimčuk Anatolia Petrovic, Secretary of the Rakunkovy Chamber, Samusia Georgia Juriovich, Chief Controller of the Chamber of Accounts, Igor Mikolaiovich, Chief Controller of the Chambers of Accounts, Vitkovska Larissa Volodymirirovna, Chief Controller of the Chambers of Accounts for the second term. After discussion, the committee supported the above draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution and taking into account what has been said, the Committee is introducing drafts of the rulings that are in your hands to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is requesting and recommending their adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable colleagues may be offered in this way. If we were to invite candidates to these positions to the rostrum. If there is a question, ask questions within three minutes, if not - then there will be no questions. To see who the Supreme Council appoints. Is there no objection? Then Jaremenko Alejandro Stepanovich is invited to the rostrum. And then Valérie Mishur will say. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in. There's a name on the board. There's a question, it turns out. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u38	Well, I know, my colleague Jeromenko can do well in any position. That's my question. Indeed, the Court of Auditors is accountable under the Constitution. What good does it do the state, for the House? How much does the Court of Auditors spend per year on its maintenance make it interesting to hear such a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u39	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know as well as your colleagues that this is a constitutional body, it is defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, and it is the body that provides the information, firstly, the Supreme Council, both the committee and the factions, and separately each national deputy, and it operates within the limits defined by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u40	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u41	I have a question. Don't you think it's time to bring the Court of Auditors' status to normal international status, so it's a financial and budgetary chamber that controls not only budget expenditures, but also budget revenue. Is it time to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u42	Dear Oleg Grigorovich, the question you've asked is relevant and we've been discussing it in detail at your faction meeting. He's about to be prepared, he'll be admitted to the Supreme Council as soon as possible, and we'd like to ask you to support him. This will make it possible to work more effectively in the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u43	I want to make a point on this. In those changes to the Constitution that we have voted on, it is envisaged that the Court of Auditors will monitor budgeting and budget expenditure. So that's what it is. And the law is not necessary here. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u44	You know that past government has been marked by unprecedented looting of government funds. And are you planning deeper intelligence in this regard? What special measures will you take in the work of the Court of Auditors to really expose this theft and to punish people? And let's talk about the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. We have a lot of conclusions, we have a lot of tests, but from my point of view, neither the prosecutor's office, nor the judicial offices, nor the Cabinet of Ministers, are very superficial to respond to your proposals. Again, what do you miss, perhaps on the part of the Supreme Council, perhaps on the other hand, to enhance the efficiency of your work? This was asked by John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear John Alexanderovich! I want to say that the Chambers of Auditors are the questions that you've been talking about, they're constantly working on them, and there's no question today that we're just going to do these tests. These tests are done according to the graph that you have, and these materials are supplied to the appropriate responding authorities. Of course, the decision - making process requires the decision of the relevant competent authorities to which it belongs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u46	Sergei Shevchuk, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u47	Thank you. I have not a question, but a suggestion to my fellow MPs to support this candidacy, because it is a well-known recognized specialist in financial and economic matters, and that is why we think it will be worth working in the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u48	It's a very nice wish. I thank Alexander Stepanovich, please sit down, time is running out. Yuhimchuk Anatoly Petrovich, a candidate for the office of Secretary of the Court of Auditors, is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u49	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkwa, Lviv. My dear colleague Anatolia, you and I served as national deputies in the same vocation. I have a question for you: yesterday I asked the Attorney General's Office for what, say, a state-owned cruiser company from my budget, that is, from state funds, because it was a state-owned enterprise that went over about 90 million dollars into a charity fund there, something like Artemis for people there and so on. And in January, right at the time of the electoral company, and already in January, when they saw who had lost, the fund was dissolved. Tell me, please, I understand that this will be done by the Attorney General's Office, but what do you think, as Secretary of the Court of Auditors, is this your jurisdiction, is it not? I could call a lot of facts and glasses in the Ministry of Social Protection that you wear or monkeys out there, or someone who doesn't know where they went. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u50	I thank you very much for asking and for mentioning our work together, today's Court of Auditors is governed by a clear bill on the Court of Auditors, if these violations of financial discipline have the resources of the State budget, then the matter will certainly be dealt with by the Court of Auditors and this is included in our work plan, and for this reason the Court of Auditors has not once submitted the materials to the Attorney-General's Office. But unfortunately, you know about the effectiveness of the previous U.S. Attorney General's office. But if we are entrusted with these matters, surely the House of Accounts within the Law will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u51	Victor Petrov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u52	Dear Anatoly Petrovich, we know you as a good, decent person, a skilled specialist. I hope that you will continue to work in this post with self-responsibility, to carry out your duties. I don't have any questions for you. We simply support you and call on all the deputies to vote in favour of your candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u54	Paul Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have absolutely nothing to do with this man. And we'll support it. But I would like to take advantage of the opportunity today. I have not said for the first time that this organ, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in my opinion, has shown in its activity in previous years that it is operating under a scenario of the former KGB of the Soviet Union and is replacing the KLA with the second Minfin in the state. And in our view, our faction, we've discussed over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, this body is not helping the society, the people of Ukraine, but it is causing great damage and using the cost for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u56	Anatoly Petrovich, do you have any thoughts on this? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u57	Undoubtedly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. Of course, each national MP is entitled to his own subjective point of view. But the House of Accounts was created by Parliament today, operating within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine, within the framework of the Court of Auditors Act. Today, the whole world has, especially democratic countries, such an independent financial control institution. So you will soon have the opportunity to vote in favour of the new edition of the Accountable House Act. Any opinion of the national MP as the subject of the legislative initiative will have a place there. And everyone can make an effort to make the House of Accounts a stronger, independent body of financial control in us, in a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u58	Thank you, Anatoly Petrovich. Have a seat, please. George Yuriovich himself is invited to the rostrum. As he goes, I want to say that our colleague, Paul Sulkovski, must understand clearly in such a way that a single body of financial control is needed in Ukraine. And that is the only financial control that the Court of Auditors must be subordinated to Parliament in order to have mutual control. Please sign up for a question to Georgi Juryovich. Please, on the board. Orzhachovsky Anatoly, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Your Honor, I have a question in mind that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin has just said about the need for one single body to control the budget. So you think that at the center level, clearly, the House of Accounts can operate here clearly. Is there a problem for your local budget management organization at the district level and so on? What would it be desirable to do in this regard in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. In accordance with the law, the Court of Auditors exercises external control over government finances. The costs of the State Budget, which are transferred to local budgets in the form of inter-budget transfers, grants and subsidies, are systematically controlled by the Court of Auditors. The problem is this. That machine that is today, it's basically researching the central level of the ministry, of the department. But in accordance with the Supreme Council’s decree, there are now three regional offices of the Court of Auditors with up to 30 employees. This will allow external control by the Supreme Council through the Court of Auditors, using the funds of the local budgets generated by the state budget. The only thing I want to add is that the financial resources currently provided for in the 2005 State Budget for the expansion of the number of territorial offices are not actually there today. They are envisaged in accordance with the decree of the College of Accounts to create 10 regional offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u61	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u62	The “Regions of Ukraine” faction in the discussion on the functions of the Court of Auditors supports the editorial work that you, Vladimir Mihajlović, have heard in this room. As for the Court of Auditors, there are investment revenues in the State budget. And I believe that the bill, without replacing the Cabinet of Ministers, should control that the procedure for the use of these investments should be and should be carried out clearly rather than allow for the improvisation of the case. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u63	There really is a problem with that. And the research, the analysis. which is carried out by the Court of Auditors, has shown that previous state-run centralised capital investments for today, which have been placed in places, are in fact absent today. They've moved towards subsidies for investment projects that are being put into place. At the same time, the law provided for in the Budget Code should determine the basic principles for granting subsidies for the implementation of investment projects to date. And we have repeatedly called attention to this issue and to the Cabinet of Ministers, and we have asked the Supreme Council to speed up the adoption of this law, which should regulate the efficient use of public investment funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u64	Thank you, Georgiy Yuriovich, sit down. Zarba Igor Mikolaiovich is invited to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please sign up for Igor Mikolaiovich Zarba. If you have one. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleague! We are constantly, in fact, talking about almost 13 of these years of independence, that the budget that the Supreme Council accepts is generally not being implemented. The year ends, and then the head of Simonenko's office will report to us early next year, and we're just, well, we're terrified that, in fact, half the budget is either being stolen or not being used purposefully. I understand the complexity of your answer to the question that I'm going to ask: how do you estimate that you're going to do your function, whether you're going to do your function, or not, that we're going to face this phenomenon every time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. The Court of Auditors, as a constitutional body, was set up to appoint the Supreme Council, and the Court of Auditors, subordinated to the Supreme Council, knew the real state of affairs in the formation and execution of the State Budget. It's not our fault that we've been deprived of our functions by the Constitutional Court -- it's control over the comings, it's the formation of the government budget, it's a denial of our control function for the State Property Fund, and now we hope that this will be restored in the new law. Only then can we give you a full analysis of what happens to government funds. But there's a law, we're doing it. And because of the powers we have, I think the Court of Auditors is dealing with its functions. We're going to expand our powers, we're going to do better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u67	Anisim, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Igor Nikolayevich, my question is somewhat related to the question of the colleague of Yavorivsky, and yet. On many occasions, your colleagues on this rostrum suggested that the huge number of budget violations and crimes were simply buried by the Public Prosecutor's Office. How do you see the solution to this question, because, in fact, your work in this way in many cases just goes down?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. Specific answer. 2004 I am the deputy director of the Department of Humanitarian Affairs — science, education, health. In our trials, three criminal cases -- the Olympics, the criminal case -- the Oncology program, the criminal case is being prepared -- it's all the Henprosecutor's office, the B.S.A., and the Department of Economic Crime -- it's a criminal case for the Ministry of Education -- it's a computerization of rural schools, it's not every third computer for rural children. This is my last check last year. And I forgot. Well, let's just say, the situation has changed, and now the actual law enforcement authorities are opening criminal cases on the materials of our tests. The investigators are working, and I think the results are going to be very fast, because the violations, well, the screaming, they're seen with an unarmed eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u70	Sergey Bubba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u71	Please pass the word Kirichenko Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u72	Yes, dear colleagues, I beg you, there isn't. Time's up. Please have a seat. Please sit down, Igor Mikolayovich. Vytkov's Larissa Volodymiri, please. Please sign up for Larissa Volodymyrna. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u73	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Still, my colleagues ’ questions show that they are not more concerned. Well, not even a question to the rapporteurs, which shows that the candidates that are offered do meet the requirements, and we think that you do. So I have a question, in fact, about your work. Please tell me, if in this case legislation does not allow the Court of Auditors the possibility of which information is being used, then you have transmitted the information, and you are still not aware of what is happening to it. Perhaps you should initiate and propose to the Supreme Council, because this is the Supreme Council's Auditorium, amending legislation to make your work more efficient, because it's a remarkable inadequacy: half the budget is broken and one criminal case is committed there or two.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u74	It cannot be said that when we send the information, it is unknown to the extent that, under the law in force, the subject of the inspection must report on the steps it has taken to remedy the violations found by the Court of Auditors. The other thing that they don't always report in time, but then when we do the following tests, we also have a chapter that is necessarily "removed violations detected in the previous test." Another thing with the Attorney General is that she's not always responding to our materials, but lately this situation has changed, and our recent trials have revealed criminal cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u75	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u76	Fucking Communist faction. Larissa Volodymyrna, I'm here, a faction of Communists. I have wishes and questions. We know that the Court of Auditors is an organ of the Supreme Council, and we hope that it, as an accounting chamber, will continue to do the great work that it does in charge of Simonenko. But I have a question. Why there are so few representatives of the Accounting Chamber on the pages of our Supreme Council's Voice of Ukraine, and there are so few questions that are asked today by the members of the Court of Auditors, on the issues of budget publicity, on the tests to make the voters of Ukraine know how things are in our state, and how the House of Auditors works.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. That's a very good point you made. We're working on it. Now, if you know, there's even a special television broadcast called "accounts from the account," which shows the results of our checks. And if possible, we always go to the meetings and give interviews and material. And with the Voice of Ukraine here, we need to work on how our materials can be displayed on the pages of this newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u78	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u79	Actually, I have a question about the extension of my colleague, Mr. Eshchenk. We read the reports of the Accounting Chamber. They actually have a fairly high professional level, and they actually describe the abuses, the violations that are taking place, and the particular moments when there are no violations. But I have a question. Aren't you ready to initiate some kind of information flow from our colleagues, because some of our colleagues' questions show that the level of progressive schizophrenicity there is a half-budgeted distribution, 50 percent going from each job to capital investment? The fact that even the majority of deputies cannot read the professional conclusions you make is that they need a brief release, let alone a population for which it would be useful. In order for there to be less innuendo and a higher level to be an assessment of the real situation and the state of affairs in both the Ukrainian and the economy and in the finances.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u80	Thank you for asking, this is a very good offer, we are now working on mechanisms for cooperation in this direction. In all the days of the government and the parliamentary hearings to be held, the approved arrangements are now in place. And to that end, we've developed measures to prepare such analytical notes, thematic notes, on topics that will be held in Parliament and in the days of the Government, as well as presentations, when appropriate, and when we have the appropriate materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u81	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u82	Thank you. I have, Vladimir Cherniak, a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. I have a question, not only, perhaps, not as much to you as to the Head of the Supreme Council and to my fellow MPs. I have doubts as to whether it is appropriate to make a decision on the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors in a situation where within three months the head of the Court of Auditors will knock 65 years and by law he will not be able to continue to be a head, a new head will arrive in three months. All the personnel issues now we will determine without his participation, I think it would be inappropriate and I propose to postpone voting on this issue and his consideration and voting until the new head of the Court of Auditors arrives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u83	Well. I don't think it's a question for Larissa Volodymyrna. The point is, fellow dignitaries who, Vladimir Kirilovich, can't help but work the House of Auditors for a period of time. She has to work, if there are no people, then she can't make decisions, can't hold college meetings. Yes. Time's up, Larissa Volodymyrna. Sit down, please. Filipenko Viacheslav Pavlovich is invited to the rostrum. If you have any questions, please write them down. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u84	Viačeslav Pavlovich, this is not a question to you, but to the House of Auditors in general, and especially to Valentin Kostinović. For three years now, I have been hearing from members of the Court of Auditors who have no authority, no influence, and very critical materials that are sinking somewhere. And over the same three years, maybe I'm wrong, you can correct me, not a single legislative initiative to change the Constitution, to change the law so we can look at it and give you the authority to not only find out the facts, but also influence something and decide something. Answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. It needs to be considered in context, first, of what is needed, indeed, to change into the legislative field of the Court of Auditors. But the Court of Auditors doesn't own the legislative initiative, so we don't have the legislative initiative under the Constitution. That's the first one. The other one. Indeed, our law is not, for example, perfect. A new version is being developed, not the version, but the new bill, the new edition of the bill on the House of Accounts. The working group under the leadership of the Musiyaki People’s Deputy finished its work, and there were representatives of the Court of Auditors who also took part in the work. Now this bill is being tested, so we're listening to thoughts, we're having other discussions in the Court of Auditors. But that's not what I'm saying. That's part of the question. Another question is how to improve the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is, indeed, an independent external financial control body. And when we detect violations and other shortcomings or ineffective use of funds, we are legally obliged to inform both the Supreme Council and the law enforcement authorities when necessary. I think that in order to increase efficiency, we need to use mechanisms, new mechanisms for parliamentary control. For example, conduct committee hearings. These hearings need to be prepared, invited not only by the Court of Auditors but also by those ministers who have been checked, as well as by law enforcement officials. These mechanisms, if we introduce and incorporate into the laws, say, the new bill on the Rakhuunkov Chamber, the Supreme Council Rules, the Supreme Council Committees Act, the bill. It will be a really normal effective mechanism for our materials to find a response.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u86	Anatoly Orzhachowski, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Viacheslav Pavlovich, I believe that most of my colleagues generally appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors, even though we see what it should do in the future. However, I would like to ask you a question of this kind. In previous years, when the head of the Court of Auditors reported to Parliament about the activities of the Court of Auditors, it had been repeatedly heard that an organization had failed to verify that the relevant documents had not been provided. Do we still have such cases that state institutions do not give appropriate documents to the Court of Auditors? If so, what should then be done to the legislative body to avoid such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u88	Yes, that was the case. You're right here. I won’t call because I don’t remember who didn’t. There have been cases of rejection. In addition, cases of unlawful refusal. In such cases, the head of the organization in which the documents were requested should be held accountable. Such responsibility is now foreseen, including the Administrative Code. It was recently foreseen, and the Court of Auditors is now considering how such cases are to be excluded in general, predicting the responsibility of a particular leader. So it's settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say one more thing. Eugene Gorenik said that the House of Accounts did not make any proposals. Obviously, the one who has long worked in Parliament remembers that changes to the Constitution were accepted before article 98 of the Constitution, that the Court of Auditors controls not only the costs but also the costs of the State budget. And these changes to the Constitution were accepted by the constitutional majority. Yet, the President of Ukraine took advantage of his right and made a commitment to this law. And then the Supreme Council didn't find 300 votes to beat the President's veto. So this rule has been passed on to the 4180 bill that we have adopted. Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? In accordance with article 10 of the Act on the Court of Auditors, the First Deputy and Deputy Head, the Chief Controllers and Registrar of the Court of Auditors are appointed to the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Head of the Court of Auditors by secret ballot for a term of seven years in order to appoint the Head of the Court of Auditors. In this regard, the head of the permanent counting commission, Valérie Mishur, has a say in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you who we have on the committee, because we have deputies in different structures and sometimes they just forget. Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna, Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovitch, Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kostinuk Bogdan Ivanovich, Majko Vitali Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliyovich, Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovic, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Ryabik Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostin Merkuriyovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladisławovich, Czerovil Taras Vyacheslavovich, Cicánov Sergey Vladimirovich, Shevčuk Sergey Volodymorovich. I would ask the members of the counting committee to meet now on the third floor, where we're always going to meet here on the third floor, and we, I think, will make a decision so that we can vote in 30 minutes during the break at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, there is no warning that the reckoning committee will now prepare all the necessary voting documents, and during the break at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes, we will proceed with the voting procedure. Just a minute. No warning? Then I would ask everyone to take an active part in the vote. Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm going back to my previous proposal. Today is just the new government, the president is reforming ministries, departments. Now is the time for us and Parliament to think together and, indeed, to make one organ and to eliminate the House of Accounts and the KRA just in time. That's why I'm proposing to return immediately to this question, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you as the head of the Supreme Council, and to put a dot, and to make, indeed, a benefit to our Ukrainian people, to society, to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u93	Thank you. That's a good suggestion, because we're actively working with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Chambers of Auditors, on the relevant law on the single body of financial control. Dear colleagues, please note, the draft decree on the resignation of members of the National Council of Ukraine on the issues of television and radio broadcasting from the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration. The committee is invited to report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich. Please, Sergey Makarovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We have four members of the National Television and Radio Council, who are elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Their term of office is, in principle, another year. But as the executive power in Ukraine changed, the head of state changed, and the new head of state, which logically, has already sent his fourth to the resignation of Leonid Kuchma, that's understandable, and probably right, at least more visible to him, our fourth from the Supreme Council has remained simply illegal. Like the members of the Nakrad, and the decision cannot be taken, matters cannot be decided, they cannot protect the information space of the state, they can issue licenses, or they can't file cases with the court for licenses, so no action can be taken by the four. They correctly appraised the situation, and they wrote to the Supreme Council themselves an application for their resignation in connection with the situation that had taken place. One member of the Nacradu is no longer referred to by the Supreme Council, Vitaly Shevchenk. He worked honestly, in my opinion, in Nakrad and became the National Deputy of Ukraine on the list of "Our Ukraine", already approved in connection with his application for release from Nakrad. But even him and everyone else we have, or formally already, because they have filed, examined and resigned. Next, we'll announce a tender through our committee for two weeks. And perhaps some of these people will become members of the Nacradah again, in parallel, to ask that the President will finally appoint his fourth so that the Nacra would be effective. There are two suggestions: either to consider together the resignation of the members of Nacrada, namely Viktor Ivanovich Monday, Shevchenka Vitalija Fedorovich, Manjosova Volodymira Anatoliyovich, Swan Tetjana Jakovna; or personally, there is such a thought on the committee, it may be sounded by the deputy Yavorowski; or together. [[Well, he's already a deputy, so technically he's not even a member of the Nacrada, but technically he needs to do it.]] And point two: to ask the members of the Nacrada from the Supreme Council, except for Vitaly Shevchenk, because he is already a deputy, or three members: Monday, Lebedev, Manjosova - continue to carry out our assignment, the Supreme Council of its four, and ask the President to speed up the process for his part. Here's the problem. As the Supreme Council will decide, so will it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I see there are questions. Please sign in. Let's sign up, three minutes for a question to the reporter. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Bondarenko Volodymir, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u97	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u98	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the electronic media subcommittee of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! Sergey Truenko, the first deputy head of the committee, since we don't have heads right now, has made a clear statement. I'm just making an offer, because that's the idea on our committee. In order for us not to violate it, the National Council is personally voted upon. Each member of the Board shall vote in person for his or her appointment. Since they personally each wrote these statements, I propose to vote, not by a spear, but separately. In this way we will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u99	Thank you. There is no legal contradiction to this proposal, for example. It is true that the scientific expertise of our government is that we can resign no more than two members. But our respected lawyers at the office confused the rotation of the Nacrada by two men and the resignation. We have the right to either send everyone, or one thing at a time, it doesn't matter, it's about resigning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u100	Nosenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u101	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to your colleague Leshchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u102	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u103	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Sergey Makarovich, as an argument, you said that these four members of the National Council couldn't work because there's no quorum or anything like that. But still, if they resign, it means that for a period of time, this council won't work at all. Which are on the committee of vision to speed up and maybe there are some suggestions from the executive branch to speed up the council to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u104	My dear colleague, I don't know anything about the proposals of the executive board. I don't know why it's been two months since the new president's appointment. All we can do is make sure that he speeds up this process, we can even ask the committee or ask the head of the Supreme Council to contact the President, which is better. There was a precedent the same as the previous President, when the members of the Nacrada of the Supreme Council continued to write, nothing. [[four members]] This gave no positive results. It was just that the mountain of things was piled up, and there were four men sitting there, and the situation wasn't moving completely, just getting paid neatly. In this situation, what can we really do? To resolve a personal question on each of them, let's say, who will be retired today, at least, the position that Vitaly Shevchenko held is now free; to announce through the committee a two-week tender; to propose candidates; we quickly complete our four and properly worry about the President to make his appointment faster; and the body becomes active. [[head introduced]] [[We ask the Head to do this to the Supreme Council.]] If you do as I said, as I said in the example that the four were sitting on, it doesn't give you anything positive, nothing but cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u105	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u106	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Vasilevich! I'd like to make myself clear. Those statements that have been written by these three persons have been written, I understand that, either from those political considerations or from the situation that has taken place so far in connection with the change of power. Some specific claims to them or wishes to them, so to speak, on a job, there were no circumstances, as far as I could tell. Is it true or not? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u107	The claims were generally made by the Nacradu, the profile committee's claims, our committee. Even the idea was to give a negative assessment of the activities of the National Council as a whole. But when the personnel began to study, many of the members of the committee thought that they should not do so, that they worked in the conditions in which they worked and did what they could, and individual ones even with a sign plus, as far as possible in those conditions, especially Victor Ivanovich Pondilko, and Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenko, and so on. And perhaps some of them will become members of the Nakradah again. So the question of negative evaluation, as they say, by the committee and the Supreme Council, I think I might be wrong, off, and this is exactly what I told you about. Because it is also possible to put claims before the previous composition of the accounting office to other organs and so forth, which simply worked during that period.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u108	Yes. Thank you, Vasil Makarovich, time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must, my fellow Members, now for one minute, because when we considered the question of appointment we voted for each candidate separately, obviously we should follow the rules and now we should vote on each candidate separately. Right? Cosaczenko, please, with a motive. Right? Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support the proposal made by Vladimir Mikhailovich, which is to vote on a specific basis, specifically on each candidate. This is the direct norm of respectable colleagues, the law on composition of the council on television and radio. So we don't have the right to vote on the list, just for each person in particular, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, according to the rules and in alphabetical order, I will put it to the vote. May I have your attention, please? The first is the proposal to resign a member of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Council of Swan’s Aunt Jacob. [[11:19:20]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Yes, there is a vote on the resignation of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and Manjosov Vladimir Anatoliyovich radio. Yes. [[11:19:50]] For 281 Manjosov Vladimir Anatoliyovich's resignation was accepted. A vote is taken on the question of the resignation of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk Monday, Viktor Ivanovich. [[11:20:24]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. A proposal is put to the vote. One minute, since this is about Shevchenk, please turn on the microphone in Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I am formally no longer a member of the National Council because I am in the Supreme Council Hall. Yet I thank you for your confidence in that composition of the National Council. And I've already said publicly that if I have the confidence to continue to work on the National Council, I will accept it with gratitude and form a parliamentary mandate, as required by Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the proposal to resign a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talks by Shevchenk Vitali Fedorovich is put to the vote. [[11:21:38]] For-31 Thus, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council, accepted the resignation of a member of the National Television and Radio Council of Manjosov Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Other decisions are not made. I'm asking the profile committee to make the right proposals. A real microphone, please. On what question, fellow believers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u113	Thank you. I'm just asking the second paragraph of the decree to shorten and assign the committee to this one position to hold a tender for two weeks. And we're going to do that and we're going to present a candidate. Contest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, since we did not take the decision, no assignment was given to anyone, I think it would be a protocol commission for the committee. That's enough. Right? Please. This is the committee's protocol assignment. Honorary colleagues, two factions, two factions of two factions, made an offer under the Rules to announce a recess of 30 minutes. This is, I call what factions -- "the only Ukraine" and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the factions separately -- the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine and the "Regions of Ukraine." It's possible to do that. If they're ready to make statements about what's proposed to take a break from the application and keep working. No warning? Please, from the first group of factions, from the faction of "One Ukraine" and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Bogdan Hubsky has the word. Please identify yourself with the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We were forced to make such a request because there were people outside the walls of the Supreme Council who were protecting their right to use their property, their car. Because we know, I'm reminding you that since April 1st, the law on the need for full insurance for cars has entered into force. And only a small fraction of those millions of people have gathered here who are really protesting this injustice. Because that minimum wage, about 300 dollars to pay, is a very large sum for many people. The minimum wage is about 300 bucks, the average wage is almost 600 bucks. That's ten percent of income a person has to pay. How to be a pensioner, a family breadwinner, a multi - parent family, a peasant who receives, not money at work, but grain, sugar, and the sugar that this grain trades for gasoline. If he has gas money, he should pay for the insurance. He doesn't have any gas money. I personally believe that yes, there must be insurance. It's okay. But when people have income, then they will have to be insured. The second question. Many protest not so much against insurance as against those payments. Here we met a cab company. They say, yes, you have to be insured. But they say when the law was being drafted, we offered 100 dollars for 300,000. machines. During the preparation of the paperwork, it became 300 bracelets. And they ask the cabbies, who took the 200 bucks? Show that man. That's 60 million. There's a lot of money in Ukraine. That is why modern - day authorities are transparent. If we're going to have to adopt the law, we have to cancel this, we have to adopt a new one, but clearly show what insurance payments, why this kind of payment? Yushchenko went to the veterans yesterday, consulted with them. And at their suggestion, he made a decision to celebrate the 9th of May. Why do we not want to go out to the people, consult with them, and accept their offer, at the advice of the insurance law itself? And that's the right thing to do. I'm sure most of you are practically all in favor of social protection. And so it has to be acknowledged that a mistake has been made to repeal this law, to adopt a new European law that will take into account both the interests of the economy and the interests of the people. And today it's just another 300 dollars -- a human tax, because if people take money, they have to at least explain to them why they take money, what they're going to benefit from. that they pay, and what good will it do the state? And they say, "Pay 300 bucks, like rams, without an explanation of why to pay," that's not fair. As a result, we suggested that this law should be put into the agenda and put to the vote. Sadly, the next week he is merely asking the question of getting into the agenda. Let's put it to a vote. It's going to be cancelled, so it's cancelled. If the Supreme doesn't vote, it doesn't vote, but then it will be fair, in a state, as they say, and in support of people, all the more so that today is a complete democracy. Since April 1st, it's going to be negative. Thank you for your attention. And the request to go out to people, to communicate, to listen to their arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Not all of them, please, Bogdan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, if this bill is ready, let's look at it tomorrow, because if the language goes to put it into the agenda, it means to look at it. Let's think about it and figure it out. Here two more factions called for an appropriate break. On their behalf is Nestor Shufric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Honorable Chief. Dear compatriots, Ukrainian national deputies! Yesterday there were events in Odessa that were different from brutal repressions against people who stood up for positions other than the ideas of the new government. During the session of the Primorski Court, only oranges were allowed. It's not a problem if she's even sitting on our heads, if they're even sitting on our heads, it won't prevent us from defending the interests of those who are suffering today solely because they supported Yanukovich in previous presidential elections. But why should almost 70-year-old Vasilis Yvashchenko suffer, who was not allowed into the courtroom, and when trying to get through there, she almost had her finger ripped off by militia officers? Why should Irina Viachelavina Silecka, who is the widow of an officer who gave his life to our Fatherland’s service, be the mother of three children? Its representatives hit their heads with orange bricks. She's in the hospital right now. Remember these two names: Vasilis Yvashchenko and Irina Viacheslavna Silecka, two women, one in their 70s, the other in the widow of a dead soldier, the mother of three children are the first people, the first citizens of Ukraine who have suffered from the repression of the new regime. It's not moral. It's physical. We have to stop this prank. In Odessa they say, "The revolution has a beginning, the revolution must have an end."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u118	Yes, Your Honor, we now have a very difficult question: a draft decision on the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on social policy and work. In order to comply with the Rules, I would ask that the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev, explain. No warning? Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u119	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u120	Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, the committee at its meeting discussed a draft ruling that was tabled today for consideration by the Supreme Council on the agenda, i.e. the draft decree of the National Deputies of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the First Deputy Head of the Committee, this committee, and made the appropriate decision, which I will report to the Supreme Council as necessary. But the question arose. Today we were handed over a draft decree registered under number 7132-1 and introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, also on the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. In the first instance, the draft decrees of the national deputies of this committee are proposed to elect the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, and it is suggested to choose, more faithfully, the first deputy of the head of the Dry Yaroslav Mikhailovich. In this case, it is proposed to select the first deputy head of this committee, Leonid Mihajlovich, which is my view that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies, should decide whether or not we are going to consider this issue now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, perhaps. Well, please, from the procedure, let's exchange three minutes. Please sign up. Sign up. No, no, it's not a performance, it's not a discussion. Please sign up for the show. Boris Bespali, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine." It seems to me that this issue should be considered not in isolation, but in a package with other issues, because the appointment of committee heads and their first deputies by the Supreme Council they did appoint, voted in a package with quotas of various MP factions and groups. That's the first argument. Second argument. We are freed from vacancies in leadership and a number of other committees, such as European integration, freedom of speech and some others, and it is clear that these issues must be balanced in order to obtain a majority in the hall. And finally the third argument. If we have a few of these different proposals, this indicates a disagreement, this has to be heard by both applicants, so our general proposal is to look at this issue on the Conciliation Council and bring it up. I want the Chief of the Supreme Council to make agreed proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council, and now to remove this issue as not ready to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u124	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u125	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Here are representatives of the Presidential bourgeois faction "Our Ukraine" urge us to abide by what laws. But the government of socialist nationalists doesn't. Many of them, representatives of this government, have so far failed to appoint their deputies. Let's do this, and then we'll call on others. So I'm making an offer today to consider this question, and the Supreme Council needs to determine who to choose as the first deputy head of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u126	Mikola Komar, please, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u127	..the word of Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u128	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Valérie Konovaluk, 62nd District, Donetsk. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, really, the question of how much I realized that the Regulatory Committee had only been able to consider the proposal for the People's Deputy Sukhoma. I am in view of the very large number of bills now that relate to social policy in general on the issue of the social protection of our citizens. So I understand that we should now consider this proposal that was considered on the committee. And in general, the question of vacancies and assignments, let's really consider, not from the point of view of the statements being written by the respective MPs, but from the point of view of the Supreme Council working really, effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! It's probably absolutely right that we have to make some final decisions. But I have the only question that arises when I listen to today's discussion. Tell me, please, there's a committee of profile, there are people who are already working on this committee. To some extent, they proved their worth as professionals. Why do we have to come up with solutions because someone put another bill in the hall today? That's probably not quite right. There is a decision of the committee, we have less than a year to work in this assembly, we will again withdraw the situation to some ballots and by December we will receive full guidance from the committees. I don't think that's gonna be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Time's up. Let's do it this way. Because we're in a conflict. I'm asking for your attention! Invite the national deputies to the session room. Since the conflict has arisen, let's put to a vote whether the Supreme Council agrees to consider this issue now, and as we will see from the results of the vote, whether we have the good will to make a positive decision. And after that, let's put the proposal to the vote in order for them to come and consider it. No warning? Just a minute. I'm doing the right thing. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee, and I'm referring to the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the Supreme Council's work on this issue today, and I'm referring to it as Bills 7132, 7132-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u133	I can't hear you. The committee's in charge of this, well, you are. So as soon as we turn it on, we'll look at it, then you'll be speaking, well. [[11:37:22]] For 232 So the Supreme Council has decided to consider this issue now, please Hara Vasil Georgievich, Head of the Committee, please, and after that discussion, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u134	First, thank you very much for supporting, secondly, distinguished colleagues, there are only 11 members left in our Committee and most often there are 7-8 people present, some more, some of whom are engaged in various matters. More than enough work has been done, especially today in the Committee, it has simply prompted your draft legislation on social issues. And we need to concentrate on all our work in order to consider and work in a timely manner. Therefore, a high professional is needed. Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhay, and we clearly support him, this is the professional's quality as a professional. He is not only the most active member of our Committee, he is one of the most active members of the people in this sessional room. And his election as the first deputy will enable our Committee, once again, to address issues in a timely and high-quality manner. I very much ask you to support Jaroslav Mihajlovich's candidacy for the position of First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. That'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u135	Any questions? Is it? Please sign in. Yes, please, three minutes. Unburned, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u136	Boris is broke, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." The first question is how to make a candidate. The committee is not a subject. Who and how did he propose to the Committee to consider this very one candidate if we see that there are other candidates. Whether the Committee had asked other parliamentary groups and factions to resolve the matter. So it's really settled with the agreement on this. Secondly, really, when we voted on these candidates, it was the candidate of Viacheslav Kirilenko, who worked beautifully, and it was the quota of the faction "Our Ukraine." I think that in this case we had to turn to our faction, and so on, because Kirilenko worked beautifully in this position and proved his full efficiency. In this case, we see some kind of biased and very hasty approach. So with all due respect both to the committee and to Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I think we should take this question off the table and not vote, not push the situation into a dead end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u137	I'm answering the first question. As a subject of the legislative initiative, I, the People's MP, introduced this proposal, including a proposal for the meeting of our committee. There were no other proposals for other candidates. I believe that in the time frame that we have to work, almost before spring, and then all of us will be overwhelmed by an election programme, there must be a person who knows the committee's work and who has worked on a committee that has the greatest benefit in this committee. This person is Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhay. As far as the quota is concerned, the good people, first of all, remain here very long before this office ends. Secondly, the structure of the Supreme Council was completely different when these quotas were distributed. And the quota principle today is not entirely objective to address this issue. But most importantly, today, taking a person who doesn't know this job has not worked, not in the material, but it's just putting the committee under a lot of trouble. I repeat. Better candidatures than Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhay is not on our committee, and I do not want to offend anyone, nor in the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u138	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague, about the procedure. Now some of our desperate adherents are so eager to tell us that it is necessary to do so. But let's think about the Ukrainian House or how they extended the Earth Code, and so on. So we don't do double standards. That's the first one. And the second. I know from work on my committee that only one third or half of the deputies really go and have a practical share. Does Suha’s deputy regularly participate in the committee’s work? And the second. How did the committee itself determine when this candidature was discussed, as the committee itself voted in favour of the candidature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u140	Thank you. With regard to the conduct of a certain political force, we all know that, and we don't even need to talk about it. Secondly, you need to excuse me, please, the people's deputies, and have a conscience. There are few posts in the executive branch and in the legislative branch of “Our Ukraine”. Perhaps someone and other political forces should be given an opportunity. As to the consideration of the voting, I repeat, my proposal was considered at the Committee's meeting. Only one candidature has been considered, and no objections have been raised at the Committee's meeting with respect to the candidature of Viacheslav Mihajlovich Suhhogo. That's because it's not possible in principle. Because a human being, he now holds the post of Secretary, and in fact he has long held the role for which I, as a people's representative and committee, am proposing him. I mean, de facto, he's already serving as the First Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u141	Thank you, Vasil Georgiyovich, sit down, please. Before the vote, it's too early. Please, we have another draft ruling. Who will represent by the author there Frost, Boki, Harmash and so on. Who Is the Author? Boki? Please, Ivan Sidorovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the faction of the socialist has nominated Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigori as the first deputy head of the committee, leaving one goal. First of all, it's a highly professional person, it's a member of the second vocation, a person who knows the problem very well, and a person who represents our faction fully on this committee. But I would like to say that we came out for another reason. You know, talking about the committee putting forward a previous candidate, it's more than questionable. The committee was composed of three men. It was the head of the committee, it was Mr. Suhi, and it was Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor. Two of them made a deal, and the third one was unnecessary. Well, you know, it smells a little bit like someone else. It's not a job anymore, it's a conspiracy of two or, God knows what to call it, that's all. For me, let's say in this situation, it would be better for our faction if we voted for Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, who most deputies here know. But if we already have a problem like this, let's say we have a problem with that, I think we should agree to the idea of voting in a package for all the positions that we have left. It means both the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and the five seem to be the heads of the committees, and the positions of the first deputies and deputy heads of the committees, because you understand, if we start throwing each time like this on the run, as the committee that heads Mr. Hara, I think we're going to have an endless exposure to these, let's say, not entirely normal discussions, because in the end we ourselves understand what we're dealing with today. [[By the way, I don't know what kind of political power he represents today.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u143	Ivan Sidorovich, please wait. Questions, please write down. Please explain. Three minutes. Chubarov, behind Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u144	Mr. Ivan Sidorovich, I'm here. And yet I want to ask you what's already been happening here. See, over 30 of our colleagues went to executive power and other positions. There were enough positions and not only the first deputies but also the heads of the committees. There are some problems with one or two deputy heads of the Supreme Council. It wouldn't be better if the leaders of all factions sat down, determined with a balance of interest, considered all the vacancies that are today, and who tomorrow will be, since statements from our colleagues are coming, and we will consider them and release them from the MP's powers. So we would have kept more or less that constant, well, at least the conditional one, which is in the Supreme Council until the end of our term.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u145	Dear Rephat Abdurahmanovich! When I was talking about batch voting, that's exactly what I meant by what you just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u146	Yes, please, Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u147	Ivan Sidorovich. Deputy Bondarchuk, Communist faction. I, working on the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, attended a meeting of the Committee when the issue was discussed. Well, first of all, I want to inform you that no proposals have been made regarding other candidates on the Committee. I know your Socialist faction is offering to support Vernigor. In principle, we don't have any comments on Leonid Mihajlovich's work either, but I would like to draw your attention to what it really is, and here Hara Vasili Grigorjevic is absolutely right: the authority that Suhay Yaroslav Mihajlovich has in our committee, his active position, his work, it can be seen even after our committee's visit, so his work -- we have no doubt here. So tell me, where did this proposal come from in one night?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u148	Alexander Vasilovich! I must tell you that when Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigori was nominated, no one was going to humiliate Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhogo. So I think there's comparisons like that and that kind of reproach, they're just inconspicuous. And in one night or two nights -- I wouldn't ask that question, it's the right of deputies, it's the right of every faction to run for office. But I've already told you that we're ready to vote either one or the other in a multi-vote vote, or maybe the third one will show up. I think it was a much smarter way out of the situation than we are here, so start the ring fights around one or the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u149	Please, Mr. Cranowil Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u150	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u151	Microphone, please, Potapova. Diving microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u152	Dear Ivan Mihajlovich, please tell us that we already have a principle: this is when we discuss candidates. All of a sudden, you accused Haru and the members of the committee of questioning in general, let's say, the objectivity of the committee's discussion? Leonid Mikhailovich is, in fact, a worthy MP, but to move in this way is your disagreement, let's say, with the committee, either with the Committee, or with the Committee, or with someone, at least, just inappropriate. I'll tell you something else. Leonid Mikhailovich is a respected man. But I know he's headed the National Rescue Committee in Kharkiv County. He wasn't assigned to Poltava for some reason. The Harkovts have found themselves weak in matters of national salvation. It seems that this committee will be needed soon, because, well, the budget is already in trouble. That's why I would just ask you, well, to attack Hara hard, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u153	First of all, no one attacks Mr. Haru. I don't know where you got these attacks. Secondly, if you doubt that Leonid Mikhailovich was not elected head of the National Rescue Committee in Poltava, then I think it's very simple to say that the MP of Vernigor has been attached to the Kharkiv region, and still remains, from our faction, according to us, the adopted Law on the Status of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u154	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Sitiye, please. Yes, shall we vote? Oh, no? Nine minutes to talk. Please, Solomon. Behind him is the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u155	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this is the same case, from my point of view, when it may be said that it is not worth eating an egg. We must treat with great respect every deputy, every colleague of ours, with great respect the offer of every faction that exists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but at the same time, I am deeply convinced how this has now become fashionable to speak, deeply convinced that we should respect and think, in fact, that committee that a colleague goes to and works there. I have experienced in my Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, in which I am the secretary of this committee, I can say that of those deputies of our distinguished colleagues who are "assigned" to the committee, they are practically working only a little less than half, while others leave us with their claims that they are all soul mates with us and in writing testify that they are voting with us as we will in one piece of the bill. It's a big problem for our Supreme Council of Ukraine to raise the level of work on committees, not in a session hall. In the session room, it's a theatrical action, and the work actually and practically happens on the committees. Therefore, if the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, as reported by the committee's chairman by other representatives of this committee, appreciates and supports the practical work of our fellow MP, Mr. Drey Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, I think we should listen to this. I don't want to say anything bad, God forbid, about our esteemed fellow MP Vernigor, who has great experience in the trade movement, but for today let's still support the idea that we should work together to support those who are practically working and working, the more that we have in this office to work for just one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u156	Please, John the Rabbit. He's been followed by the Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u157	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. At first glance, this question, as my predecessor put it, is not worth eating an egg. This is really a very serious question because the question is whether we are following the principles set out in the Rules and, I would say, the arrangements we had in our Parliament's work, whether we are going against these principles and are beginning to undermine the unity of our Parliament. That's what today is about. If you take a document signed by Mr. Matthew, head of the committee, he writes that you cannot deal with this issue today for a number of reasons. The first reasons are formal, because the draft regulations that are not in line with our Rules have no explanatory notes and so on. And the other is not formal signs. I mean, it's about the fact that candidates for leadership positions on committees are submitted on a quota basis according to the agreement of the leaders of the MP factions and groups. There is no such agreement. And we're dealing with a representative, a member of our party, Mr. Kirilenko, who is today's minister. And no one in this room will say that Kirilenko was not an active deputy working on this committee. But today we're told, "Now let your faction do without a quota, we'll be here at the corner making proposals." Today Mr. Hara actually rejected the principle of the distribution of power when he said that: you are, "Our Ukraine," you have many positions there, then give to others in the Supreme Council." But Mr. Hara needs to know that under our Constitution, power is allocated to the legislative, judicial, and executive powers. And here we are represented in this Supreme Council, and we want our interests secured. So our proposal, the proposal of the Ukrainian People's Party, is to come up with a comprehensive solution to this problem. Because we have a whole series of committee heads that aren't busy today, we have the post of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and if we give up the principles that are set out in the Supreme Council's rules on representation quotas. If we give up the arrangements we made when we formed the leadership of the Supreme Council, we will act consciously or unconsciously against the unity of Parliament. I don't accept the arguments that are being said today that we have only one year to work, so let's look at this problem through specific candidates. I don't want to characterize candidates, I want to talk about principles today. And I'll remind those deputies that when Kirilenko took office as Minister, he was appointed by the Ukrainian National Deputy in a timely manner. So in this case, we shouldn't have any claims against this member of the Ukrainian People's Party. So, honourable national MPs, I want you to put that question down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u158	Yes, please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u159	Igor Shurma, faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine united. Today, we are discussing the question of the election of the first deputy committee, but there are hundreds of thousands of millions of people in Ukraine who are still in the hall. I'm very surprised at the performance of the previous speaker. The Ukrainian people were fornicated in the pre-election race, and 13 moral decrees were promised. I have great respect for John Alexanderovich, well, there's no need to defraud Ukrainian people. What quotas are you talking about? Your faction is gone, your faction is broken. Today you've formed a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, no more faction of our Ukraine, Sterban has left the Liberal Party. Your faction, your block is gone. And now, if you claim to be great Democrats and just, John Alexanderovich, have the willpower to come out to this rostrum so that you can be seen by the MPs and listened to the Ukrainian people and say that we are Democrats in fact and we are the quota people. And the Ukrainian People's Party wants to offer the united Social Democrats a place on their quota. And their place is the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We are not yet applying for this position, and we have abandoned it. But you, at least, be a Democrat and offer the people the quota they belong to. Next. What kind of balloting you're talking about and why you're teasing people. You tell people that the Piement of Democracy is Galicina, the governor of Lviv County, the governor of the Frankiv region, the governor of the Ternopil region. You're breaking the Constitution. You called for the rule of law. You're going to Europe, you're going to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you're going to communicate around the world and you're saying we're the rule of law. They don't make up MPs. They're getting paid, they're getting assessed, they're in the Supreme Council, and they're in the executive branch of power, and you're talking about the pensioners' guarantees. You don't have to cheat people. I'd go to the Supreme Council deputies in the first place. The ambitions of this block today are very large, they just want to take everything. Let us offer them to take everything, because after a very short period of time, their promises will burst like a soap bubble, they will not sow wheat, they will sow the orange symbol of carrots. You'll lose everything, people won't pick you. So take whatever you can, or no one will back you up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the name of the Hare. Please, reply, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say to the previous speaker: Why? Because the faction of our Ukraine exists. And yours and the faction you came to the Supreme Council, it's gone. So, Mr. People's MP, you have to have a little bit of political memory and not tell people today that this faction has collapsed, that you've gone somewhere and you don't respect the law and other things. I wouldn't want you to use parliamentary time today to fool people. And as for the fact that you're running out of jobs, I say again, we're talking about the principle. And as you've seen, Kirilenko as a member of the Ukrainian People's Party wrote the application in time, and in time we took Kirilenko's resignation, accepted it. That's why I'm asking you not to fool people. I'm talking to the people's deputies. Let's live together, let's make a deal and solve all the problems with a package.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, be careful. Dear colleagues, first. Here the various accusations were about compliance or noncompliance with the Rules, I would like to say a few words. First of all, you don't have to blame the fact that there's another bill besides one. Each of the national MPs is entitled to a legislative initiative, and at any time, he can submit an alternative bill. So there's no disturbance. There's a bill, there's an alternative bill, and we're both considering it in accordance with the Rules. And the Supreme Council's right to stand for a bill. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen of the national community, I would like to stress that you should pay attention. Quite often, by giving an interview, you talk about the need to resolve things through a series of ballots. Your right, as you say. The only thing I want to point out is that this is not in line with the rule of law. It is not in line with the Rules because the Supreme Council’s leadership is chosen according to another principle. And the committee heads are on a different basis. With regard to committee heads, the first deputies of committee heads, the deputy heads of committees, it is possible that the Supreme Council has decided to apply the so - called package principle. In a package to vote in favour of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council, who, in accordance with the Rules, votes by secret ballots and votes in favour of the heads of committees and deputies who are voted in accordance with the Rules by the Council system, we cannot. Therefore, there is no need to confuse holy things with sinful ones. So, your honors, the discussion is over, I'll put it in that order. And one more thing. Those of you who have proposed not to consider this issue, I remind you that 232 votes of the national MPs have decided that we should consider it today. So all of this is the Supreme Council's decision. Please write down the reasons for the vote for three minutes. Yes, Kostinuk, follow by Anitchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u164	Please, Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u165	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to protect the honor of the native city of Lviv when such a round that came from Lviv right here in the rostrum speaks of Lviv as a city with some kind of special democracy, and this man is so disgusted by the lions that he is afraid to appear on the streets in broad daylight, because Lviv does not accept such teachers and representatives in Parliament. And this party, which today has 0.0 authority in Galicina, today, something here, give us, as they say, is plaguing us for the cause of the Lviv democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we signed up for the reasons for the vote, so please, for reasons. Anichuk, follow by Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u167	Vladimir Anishuk, the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, already 12 hours 06 minutes, has to take a break. That's why I'm asking you, let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u168	Please, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u169	Pass the word to Potapov, Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u170	Please microphone of the Potapov Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u171	Adam Ivanovich, well, they've already spoken about one candidate, about another candidate, and it's already going to, well, look for some specifics. I strongly support the views of those deputies who simply propose a vote. In addition, I cannot achieve a single vote: the heads of the National Rescue Committee were appointed by a certain order and there was no cancellation. They will continue this reconciliation, and how do we consider, say, the compatibility of the People's Deputy with this post?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u172	Yes, please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u174	School microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u175	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to point out that, of course, a package vote can't be put here because they are. One candidature votes in one way, the other vote in another. But we can reconcile positions. So to talk and solve the issue in such a way that it's not just a discussion, it's not just a discussion, it's a, you know, kind of a market mode of this discussion. And I'd like this to go into the normal river to get us to the specifics of the charges. So I think you could conceptually look at it, but it took factions to negotiate with each other. Let's take a break, the faction leaders will talk to each other, and so, after a break, we can, in principle, get on with some constructiveism, because we can actually get to some kind of frost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think those who say things like that now, Andrew School, the suggestions, are right. But let's hear it from you in the future. When we have human resources issues in the future, let's really sit down and look at this problem. Now we are different than the Supreme Council has obliged us to do, because there are 232 votes for us to consider today, so I can't do anything else. And on the other hand, there's a very good suggestion that we agree on these proposals. So, please prepare for the vote, in order of coming, I will put the motion to the vote. I am voting on the proposal: the election of the national deputy, Mr. Dryoslav Mikhailovich, as the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, registration number 7132. Please vote. [[12:10:05]] For 242 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 55, "Ukraine" - 50, People's Party - 13, Socialists - 1, Block Timoshenko - 1, "One Ukraine" - 16, Social-Democratic Party - 21, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, "Will of the People" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, "Soyuz - 10, "Centre" - 1, "NDP-Republika" - 11, "Postfracial" - 14. [[united]] Yes, Your Honor, I give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission to the National Deputy Mishuri. Please listen to the voting order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u177	Dear National Deputies, the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council approved the form of a ballot to vote for the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors. There are six names here, we'll vote on the list. If anyone has a vote against it, you just have to delete it from the list. Tickets can be obtained at the registration desks. The Counting Commission takes 30 minutes to vote. We think that's enough. The vote starts at 12 o'clock, let's say 13 minutes. End in 30 minutes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, so be careful! - we've got 30 minutes to vote, but we've got until we're ready and so on, so I'm calling it a 40-minute break, up to 12 hours 50 minutes. At 12:50 a.m., we continue the meeting. Now, please take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, we'll continue our sessions until the Counting Commission prepares the results for us. Yes, let us turn to questions related to the holding of parliamentary hearings for days of government. There's a bill on Parliamentary Hearings on Freedom of Conscience and Personal Identification, the registration number for Bill 7,000. Ukrainian National Deputy Samuelka Katherina Semenovna reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I certainly ask you very much to support this question, which I propose to put to the parliamentary hearing. I'll come back to that question. In July 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Register of Individuals of Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments to which such supplements were made. For those who, because of their religious or other beliefs, refuse to accept an identification number, have officially reported it to the relevant public authorities, the previously established forms of tax collection and other compulsory payments are maintained. The passports of the persons listed are marked as having the right to make any payments without this number. The State Register does not refer to information about persons who, because of their religious or other beliefs, refuse to accept a number and officially report it to the relevant public authorities. At the same time, I want to emphasize that all these people are really very disciplined tax payers. Articles 3, 22, 32, 35, the Constitution of Ukraine, which gives individuals the right to refuse these numbers because of their religious and other beliefs, and this right has also been legally established to pay taxes and other compulsory payments without a personal number. I want to say that, despite the fact that five years have passed, the tax administration refuses to put the right markings in passports, people submit to the courts, people win, and only after the trial does this mark really happen to them. You remember all these mass measures that took place before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in front of the Cabinet and the President’s Administration. Nevertheless, the chariot is still there. So we were asked to hold parliamentary hearings and determine whether the government and the tax administration would eventually comply with the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I also believe that this issue needs to be resolved, and only we in this room can resolve this proud peer. So I, despite the prison that gave the government and wrote not to accept this decision, am asking you very much to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u181	Have a seat, please. Sit down, Catherine Seed. Please, from the Committee of Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u182	The question of freedom of conscience and the identity of the person proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mrs. Samolik, for consideration is a long time under consideration. But it's not a problem for us today anyway. At the legislative level, it is decided on the basis of articles 22 and 67 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is the norm of direct action. Article 22 states that citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. There can be no privileges or limitations on the basis of race, color of skin, political, religious, and other beliefs. No one can avoid constitutional obligations on the grounds of his religious beliefs, and official documents do not indicate the attitude of a citizen toward religion. International experience shows that there are no exceptions to the use of identification numbers in taxpayers in Europe, including in Orthodox countries such as Bulgaria, Greece, Russia, and Romania. At the level of religious belief, despite the fact that the issue of non-admission of identification codes was violated only by a part of one of the Orthodox churches, it has already been resolved. This is evidenced by the attitude of the Holy Patriarch of Moscow and of the whole of Russia, Alexia the Second, which states: "The Divine Commission and the Holy Synod, after discussing the subject of tax numbers, came to a firm conviction, the question of whether accepting a tax number is a matter of free civil choice, but it is not a question of faith. This is not the first time that the church has come to a similar conclusion, after a thorough study of all theological, social, and scientific aspects of the problem. End of quote. This is also the case in the summary document, the 7th plenary of the synodal seminary of the Russian Orthodox Church of Belarus, led by the Metropolitan of Minsk and Slucko Philaret. The first paragraph concludes that acceptance, or rejection, is not a matter of confession, nor is it a matter of sinful action. The issue of the introduction of universal cards and the protection of information to the powers of the Committee does not belong, and the attitude of the card owner to religion, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Freedom of Conscience Act, should not be mentioned in it. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council considers the adoption of the draft regulation to be premature. Similarly, the committee would ask against such hearings in order not to excite passion and have the opportunity to make any possible decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u183	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. Shall we discuss it? Yes. Then we vote. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u184	Yes, please, from the Cabinet of Ministers. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, on behalf of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, allow me to remind you of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, which states that Ukrainian citizens are equal before the Law and have equal rights in all areas of economic, political, social and cultural life regardless of their attitude towards religion. Official documents do not indicate the attitude of a citizen to religion. Let me remind you that according to the law that Samuelka Catherine Simeonovna wrote, by the way, in 1994, the State Register was an information register that accumulated Ukrainian citizens' incomes. Today, this information register contains information about 46 million Ukrainian citizens. What does this allow us to do? First of all, it allows you to fight the tinnitus of the economy. And secondly, with corruption, which today is a lot to talk about. In fact, in no country of the world today has the notion of "no identification numbers". And those suggestions that today echo the identification of a person by name, by name, and by his father are impossible because. Let me give you an example. Only Shevchenko Ivanov Ivanovichov is currently in charge of 736 in the state. And this list can be continued. Where are we going? Are we going to Europe or are we going back 10 years ago? In order to not actually bring this issue to parliamentary hearings today, I am asking you not to do so, especially since the identification of the person is requested by us in the 24 laws of Ukraine that you voted for, the 54 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and the 45 decrees of the National Bank of Ukraine. Today, we have indeed made arrangements for the identification of the religious institutions and organizations that have registered this order in the Ministry of Justice. But what's going on now? Citizens now who have given up the identification number return it because they cannot exist in this active legislative field today. So we'll listen at parliamentary hearings? Where are we going? Shall we go back to the original order? Well, then let's vote. I propose not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, calm down. First, I would ask, especially the representatives of the executive authorities, not to use political expressions and not to make assessments, but to report clearly and specifically, to draw the conclusions of the deputies have the right of political. That's the first one. The other one. We don't make any laws with you, we don't change anything, we want the participants to talk about this acute problem. At parliamentary hearings, we also make no decisions; we only make recommendations on how to solve a problem. So I don't personally see any fear here if we talk about this problem. But how will the Supreme Council decide? Yes, on the basis of the vote, please sign in for three minutes. Please, Bespali, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u186	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Respectful colleagues, among all the problems that exist in the state, are particularly sensitive among them and, let us say, religiously related, to various religious details that are individual. It's freedom of conscience, it's questions where it's very important to intervene very carefully, and which in no way have to be protected from any pyari, use for political purposes and so on. I mean, I think that bringing to the question of parliamentary hearings a problem that will not be resolved by parliamentary hearings and cannot be resolved, because it is beyond the competence of Parliament in general. And there's just going to be an uproar in society, so that's a conscious step towards exacerbating the political situation. So I don't think we should do that. Please don't support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u187	Please, Hinzburg. After her is Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u188	Adam Ivanovich, please pass on the word to Phydenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u189	Here's Phydenko Stanislaw's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u190	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Let us recall that in this room five years ago, the Supreme Council of the faction of the Company of Ukraine adopted a law that is valid today, a law that would have to be repealed for religiously motivated believers. Unfortunately, the mechanism was not produced. Of course, the tax administration was primarily opposed to all of this. To the great regret of the tax administration, however, almost all the cases referred to by believers were decided for the benefit of believing people. So from the point of view of the law, is there a problem? Yes. We need to discuss at the hearing and accept the recommendations we need for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u191	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u192	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Freedom of religion is enshrined in the Constitution, and it really is today. We have different concessions today, different beliefs, so it's happened to us in our country. But I listened very carefully to the tax representative. You know, that's probably because you're in this mood, you're in this kind of attitude, you're probably in this kind of thing. Here I am, as far as we go, so to speak, in a literal sense, with believing people at the sites asking them to solve the problem of implementing the Law, which has existed for five years. I'd like you to come to my district and help me solve this problem with at least one believer. And they showed us to go from "A" to "I," to the last, so to speak, to look them in the eye and answer how the Constitution is being implemented in our country. And then we'd see if there's a problem or not. There really is a problem. We need to develop an algorithm once and for all, and to fulfill it, this algorithm, like the holy one, is that people who believe are doing their canons are doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u193	Yes, please, Darling and Hare in one minute and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following subject. Today we are discussing a situation that is not clear to me. There is a law, it requires that it be fulfilled. And quite right today, the Chairman, speaking to representatives of the tax administration, said that, my dears, we must listen to the full extent to which the tax administration is implementing the existing law? And to my fellow deputies, I would like to ask another question: My dears, do we release the army if a person is, excuse me, a sect? Why can't we deprive a person of the right to receive a code if he has the right under the law not to do so? Why do we have this selectivity: some laws we enforce, others we don't want, some we can release until we're in the army, and others we don't want to allow stamping and passporting. Therefore, if there is any doubt on this subject, please accept all questions before the parliamentary hearings to be resolved by the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u195	Please, the Hare insists on Solomon, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u196	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. We are asked a very delicate question to discuss at parliamentary hearings. I'd like you national deputies to understand that in our practice the issue of identification numbers has been introduced into the realm of religious activity. And I have no doubt that the initiators of this hearing want to direct our discussion to this plane, this way. Indeed, there is a problem with the use of identification numbers in very many institutions, for very many things these numbers require. And we have to say there's a problem here. But this problem of getting into the surface of freedom of conscience, I think it would be too much. So I am well aware of the motives for this position, and I ask you not to vote for parliamentary hearings, but to commission a committee to consider these issues at committee hearings on the plane, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u197	Yes, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u198	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is a problem. In my time in Sweden, I was surprised that there was no Centrer, and all people register from birth by one list, by one rule. They don't pay taxes yet, but the State Tax Administration has already counted them and kept accounts of them. Let's and we'll learn this interesting experience first. Maybe we and the Central Elections won't have to be the way he is today. And second, to freedom of conscience. In harmony with his conscience, on March 17, 1991, an all - union referendum was held on the preservation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 59 percent of the population of Ukraine, who had the right to vote, declared: yes, the Union is. But it was trampled and burned. In memory of this and in support of this referendum today in Sevastopol, March 17, at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u199	I'm asking you to speak on the subject. Be careful, prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Freedom of Conscience and Personal Identification, registration number 7,000. Please vote. [[13:09:39]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Calm down! "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 47, National Party - 9, Socialist Party - 25, Block of Timoshenko - 1, "One Ukraine" - 12, Social-Democratic - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, "Will of the People" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Soyuz" - 5, "Centre" - 3, "NDP-Republic" - 5, "Postfactional" - 6. [[united]] I give the floor to the head of the Counting Commission to the National Deputy Mishuri. Please, Valery Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce protocol number two of the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Counting Commission of March 17, 2005. It was heard that the secret ballots for the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors had been summed up. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors included the nominations: Yaremenka Alexandr Stepanović, Yuhimchuk Anatolia Petrovich, Vitkovska Larissa Volodymyrovna, Igor Mikolaiovich, Filippenka Vijacheslav Pavlovich, Samusio Georgiy Yuriovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. First. The number of Ukrainian national deputies is 446. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots is 230. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which states that the election and approvals are considered to have taken place if the ballots for secret ballots have received at least two thirds of the deputies from their actual number, if the ballots for secret ballots have received less than two thirds of the deputies, re-elections or approvals with new nominations. So according to these articles that I called, the counting commission decided to consider the election of the members of the Court of Auditors, the names you know, to be something that didn't happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u201	The election didn't take place, so there are no results. Dear colleagues, we've heard the information. So let's go according to the Rules, we have the right to re-vote with new candidates. But this does not mean that no nominations can be made that have already been made. So I propose to the head of the Accounting Chamber to consult with the leaders of parliamentary groups, factions. And then we'll figure it out. A week or two later, when there is a plenary meeting, we will consider the matter again. There is a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on the "Prospectives for the Development of the Fuel and Energy Complex of Ukraine", registration number 7036. Reported by the head of the Bronnikov subcommittee Vladimir Kostinovich. I don't see Bronnick. Oh, I'm sorry, you're on the rostrum. Please, three minutes. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u202	Respectable colleagues. There is no need to explain that energy is the basis of the vitality of every person, every Ukrainian citizen, of the economy as a whole. And the course for European integration also requires that we have our own energy strategy. We had the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2001. held parliamentary hearings, which led the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an energy strategy for Ukraine. The 2003 and 2004 budgets provided resources to enable the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences to develop this energy strategy. The Committee on Fuel, Nuclear Energy and Nuclear Safety held six round tables and, ultimately, in 2004, the energy strategy was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers, where it is without movement for a short six-year period. In this regard, it is difficult for us to assess the correct use of energy resources, we are not sure that energy will always be available to us and that energy will always be available to us. Ukraine will always be in a state of energy security. We simply have to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in his thoughts on directing energy activities, about what energy we will have in 10 years, 20 years and 30 years from now, so that everyone can plan their activities. In this regard, the Committee believes that in May we should hear a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the energy strategy to be developed in Ukraine. We believe that before May, the Cabinet of Ministers will have plenty of time to deal with the materials that are available, to see its vision and to report here its vision of energy strategy and, after extensive discussion here, to invite it to the Supreme Council for approval. In this regard, I ask that you support the draft regulation you have proposed and hold hearings on the energy strategy of Ukraine on 18 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u203	Thank you. Yes, have a seat, please. We've got Nadrag and Solomatine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk region, People's Party. I must tell you that today, before the meeting, when we discussed in faction the People's Party's support for this draft regulation or not, we have determined that we are obliged to support it. An indicator, and an incentive, of that decision was our hearing yesterday when we heard the Ministry of Fuel and Energy report on the state of affairs and prospects for reforming the coal sector and the socio-economic consequences of this reform. Therefore, we believe that if the issue of reform of the coal sector is to be incorporated as an integral part, there is a very great need in the parliamentary hearings for today, because, according to yesterday's report, which we heard on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers is changing in certain things, in our view, the State's conceptual approaches to the coal industry. And we have the coal from Luhansk to Lviv. And we do not have the right to leave coal regions unaware of how the further development of this industry today can be seen, how the development not only of the mines themselves can be seen, so to speak, to the vibrant interests of millions of people who live and work there, but also how social, social and cultural issues will be respected, because often the fuel and energy complex and its enterprises are urban and, accordingly, how will they be treated, how will people learn how to achieve the environmental dimension in all these matters, that is, that we must clearly define. And parliamentary hearings, in our view, are fundamental in the view of the People's Party, because they provide an opportunity to discuss this both from the position of Parliament and from the position of the executive branch and to come up with an integrated solution. Therefore, when we speak of the fact that we need to hold parliamentary hearings on 18 May, as the authors suggest, the faction of the People's Party clearly supports this topic. Moreover, we even propose to consider whether the first, there has already been a vote by Parliament, for the 18th number of parliamentary hearings, which, I will say in this case, are not entirely convincing me, because there is some rather confusing topic related to the economic issues of constitutional reform. I don't quite understand it, but today's discussion is about the prospects for the development of our country's fuel and energy complex, and we have to hold parliamentary hearings, absolutely the faction will support and vote in favour. And participate actively in the development of parliamentary hearings. Because, once again, we believe that the fuel and energy complex is one of the basics in Ukraine and we are obliged to do everything we can to keep it steady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u205	Thank you, please, Solomon, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u206	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, 14 years ago when we had the Soviet Union, we didn't have this problem of developing a fuel-energy complex in Ukraine, we all understood that we have 200 years of exploration coal, we have mines working. That oil and gas are supplied at the price of the manufacturer, not at world prices. And we have the uranium raw materials of geologists scouting the work of all our atomic blocks for 50 years. Why did this happen in 14 years of capitalist government? Because first of all, they didn't care about the state they cry about every day, every Ukrainian shadow. And how to shove it in your pocket, because of the theft of public property, including oil. gas, coal. Thank God we haven't gotten to the uranium raw material yet. So the problem is and it needs to be discussed. In this connection, I want to fulfill the mission of voters from Sevastopol's hero city, once again, they remember who and how they were brought into this abyss, including in the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine. And that's why today, March 17th, in Nahimov Square, they're going to a rally and they're going to announce: the only economic space -- yes, the All-Ukrainian referendum on the status of Russian -- yes, the output of Ukrainian military personnel from Iraq is yes. And no, no, the involvement of Ukraine in NATO, no discrimination in the pension provision of military personnel. So what I'm saying is, let's listen to people's minds, they've already figured out what kind of trouble they're in with you, the so-called patriots, 14 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, with the motivation of the vote, Pellsunko a minute. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, I think there is no point in proving the need for this issue. The only thing I would like to draw our attention to is the quality of the preparation of all parliamentary hearings. Yesterday's hearing, the meeting showed that we are using the Supreme Council Hall as an exit meeting of the Ministry. They talk about everything, they talk about their problems. And that's right. But parliamentary hearings must be prepared through the prism of the main interest, the interest of the people, the interests of our constituents. That is what I call upon all those who prepare parliamentary matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u209	Let's be clear. Just before we vote, dear colleagues, I would like to warn you that on May 18th, in accordance with the decision we made on January 20, we will be conducting parliamentary hearings on the issue of "Legal provision of modern economic policy in conditions of constitutional reform." So on May 18, I especially address Bronnikov, on May 18, we can't hold parliamentary hearings with you, because we already have parliamentary hearings on May 18, and on January 20, we decided. If you don't mind, I've looked into it, we have the only possibility to hold such parliamentary hearings on June 16th. Agreed? Shurma, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u210	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich, last week we discussed the question of holding parliamentary hearings "The integration and participation of Ukraine in a single economic space." The bill did not get enough votes. But on that day it was given the task of the Chiefs to consider the matter on a profile committee. And the question on the Conciliation Council was accepted that Thursday in the relevant committee of profile, this question would be considered. If we now pass on a question that is already under consideration to June, we will again be without a date. So please consider this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u211	Indeed, that is a good point. We considered this on a conciliatory council. I'm talking to Oleg Zarubinski. Oleg Zarubinsky, I'm addressing your committee, please really, give your suggestions, as we agreed on a parliamentary hearing that was not supported. All right, now it's Rabbit, and then you are. Hare microphone, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u212	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Our faction supports these parliamentary hearings. But we suggest that these hearings be conducted in the direction of applying the principles of sustainable development. Each of you knows that the natural environment is very much degraded today and that the complex is fuel-energy, it's very high in this process, so from our point of view, we've come out of those positions that we wanted these parliamentary hearings to go through the doctrine of sustainable development and so that environmental requirements are considered on an equal footing with economic imperatives or social imperatives. I would just like to draw the attention of a committee of profile to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u213	Please, Zarubinsky, information from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u214	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. I would like to clarify the question on which I came from a committee of my own time, not the problem of parliamentary hearings on the development of a fuel-energy complex, but the problem of cooperation with the EU and the European Union, after which you put to the vote, and the proposal was voted out by 142 people's deputies, and so the legislative proposal was rejected. As for the prospect of developing a fuel-energy complex, we don't have any, as they say, warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u215	That's true, but after we voted. I will explain, Igor Mihajlovich, and I will explain: but after we voted, I remember because I led that meeting, we agreed that the committee would consider the matter and come up with its proposal. Let's talk about this at the next Conciliation Council. Yes, please, from the Department of Fuel Affairs. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The issue of the prospects for the development of a fuel-energy complex is very important and relevant, and hearing from this issue is essential. Yesterday, the Supreme Council listened to the Minpalevenergo report on coal reform, and it gave two months to develop the concept of reforming the coal sector. And the prospects for developing a fuel-energy complex are very interconnected, and they are particularly linked to coal sector reform. This is particularly true of traditional energy, of our heating companies. So given the above, we do have a request to give us a little bit of time so that we can intertwine these issues. We would like to move the month to September, but this is our request. And the request to you is to make sure that this time is raised a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u216	Yuri Vasilovich, we don't give in May, we give in June. Yes, dear colleagues, I would like to be very careful: I am voting for a parliamentary hearing on "The Prospects for the Development of the Fuel Energy Complex of Ukraine", registration number 7036, as amended on May 18th, and June 16th. Please vote. [[13:28:37]] For 283 Decision taken. There's a draft of the Order: the conduct of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the question: "Decentralisation of power in Ukraine: expansion of the rights of local self-government". Registration number 7055. Reported by National Deputy Masters Vladimir Jakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u217	Thank you. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the National Party of Ukraine. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In view of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, 3207-1, in the first reading and recognition of the need for practically all political forces to move from the Presidential Parliamentary Republic to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic, legislative changes have matured after a professional study of the issues. The need to reform local self-government and decentralize power is primarily due to problems of local self-government, including the fact that we do not actually have full local self-government. First of all, there are coalitions in the Constitution with a solution to the question of the administrative and territorial unit. Unfortunately, there is no norm to determine the substance of the administrative unit. Of course, it is not in line with world traditions and European practice. The second problem is the problem of the primacy of a local self - government entity. The definition contained in article 140 of the Constitution enables opposers of local self - government to interpret the community as a population, and no more, without ownership and territory. Today, a three - to - five - village village council seems to have little land to settle in areas between villages, since this area, according to the logic of the Earth Code and the heads of the regime, is not part of the jurisdiction of local self - government, and all land issues are ruled by the regime. In Ukraine or not, there is a paradox in the single European state where administrative-territorial units of the primary level, which do not interfere with such units, cannot solve these issues on their own. And communities can't do that with communities either. The third problem is the lack of the right of the local government of the district and district levels to assemble, to execute the corresponding budgets on their own without any indication from above, so-called control figures. For example, in the European Union today, local self-government in their country's budget is about 85 to 80 percent, we have this figure 50 by 50, that is, almost all the major state programs are being implemented up there, and only the numbers are going down and there's only one wage. So I think we can talk about a list of problems that aren't exhaustive. I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the public hearing of this issue today, with the participation of the Vice-Prime Minister of the Immortal and Head of the Preparatory Committee. So a logical, consistent step would be to move this discussion from the plane of the professional plane to the legislative plane, to the walls of this Parliament with not only involvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u218	Thank you. He'll be speaking from the Boris Jakovitch Bespali Committee. While he's going to the rostrum, I'd like to clarify. Not June 16th, because it's not Wednesday, it's June 15th, for a stenographer. On June 15, previous parliamentary hearings. Yes, please, Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on March 2, this year, discussed your proposed motion for a motion for a parliamentary hearing on the question "Decentralisation of power in Ukraine. The extension of the rights of local self-government", which was introduced by the rapporteur to the previous Mr. Masters, as well as by the deputies Nadrag and Zarubinski. The argument made by Mr. Masters is, in our view, sufficient. The committee also supports this important problem and believes that it is worth the level of parliamentary hearings because it is really a matter of state importance and very much applies to the lives of every citizen, because life flows into every village, village, specific city, so decentralization of power from Pecherska to every house is a very important question. At the same time, the Committee decided that the Supreme Council would accept the project with a change. Why? Because today, 16-19 March, at this very time, in the city of Sudak, in Crimea, there are four day municipal hearings on the issue of reforming local self-government, i.e. a wide-ranging self-governance from the involvement of local, regional authorities, the elite of self-governance, as well as scientists, scientists, politicians, government and so on. On April 23, this year, local councils will be held throughout the country, including a broad national action. And then we have our days apart, so the committee is proposing, in support of the draft decision, to clarify the date, and we're proposing this date on October 12th, as an alternative, October 5. Why such a date? Because hearings conducted by the committee are usually prepared in a quality manner. These are regional hearings, or gathering information from all over Ukraine. The next session of the Supreme Council will begin in September. So it takes a month to talk about the previous problem. And it will be like the end of the discussion, then there will be parliamentary hearings on October 12. So by generalizing the committee's proposal, I propose that we confirm the decision. And for the transcript, I'm proposing October 12th. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u220	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. Have a seat, please. Here we have four national deputies. Maybe a minute? Please, from place to place for a minute. Thank you. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! As one of the co-sponsors of this draft regulation, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the entire civilized world is leading to decentralization, deconcentration of power leading to the centralization of powers and financial resources. In the entire normal world, the smallest levels of authority have the highest powers because that is where one comes in. They don't have to go from the village to the district center to form some government support in the form of our grant. This is the main idea why we offer these parliamentary hearings and here, in agreement with the Committee's view on the possibility of transfer, we support, we do not object. Because we believe that the problem is more than serious and we ask for our support in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u222	Thank you, please, Solomon, for the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u223	Yuri Solomatin. So once again, I want to remind you that just 14 years ago, we had our budgets coming from the bottom, we had only some indicative planned figures from the top. Budgets were formed from below to the mountain. And now it's like a great revelation, a reallocation of power. In this way we're going to get instead of one Kushma on the mountain, we're going to get a thousand-headed Hydra. Kushmism will be implemented at the district and local levels, we will have our municipal police at every level, our investigation, our budgets, and so on. We're ruining the unitary Ukraine on this road. And in this context, I want to say, if anyone denies the federalization, it's you who's pushing this federalization. And listen to this question, of course, is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u224	Please, John the Rabbit, follow him Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u225	The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports parliamentary hearings on the question of decentralization of power and the extension of the rights of local self - government. For what reasons? The first reason is that there are so many problems and we don't have the only understanding of this process. The decentralization of power leads many to one thing: how to transfer the most powers to the district authorities. All of it. And they're talking about separatism and federalization and other things. Although all of us know that these are vital parts of local self - government. Today, we don't have communities that would be economically provided, that would be financially provided, that would be otherwise resourced, and that would be able to perform a self-sustaining function. So perhaps the need to hold such parliamentary hearings is in order to influence the process of territorial and administrative reform. Because there's a call that we're going to scale up the areas, change their numbers. Actually, it's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u226	Please, Karmazin. Carmazin Yuri's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question that needs to be heard "decentralization and expansion of the rights of local self-government," but you also need to add here "decriminalization of this power and de-commercialization of this power" so that what is now happening in Odessa City doesn't happen. Now my voters are under the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and no one wants to accept them. They're told: write a statement, she'll be here in a few days. And yesterday they brutally took the case in violation of article 132 of the Fourth Civil Procedure Code. The deputy chief of the Supreme Court of Jarem signed it to be handed over to the Regional Court of Woznesen in the Mikolai district and a copy of it says: the People’s Deputy of Moroz. And the people's MP Moroz didn't even ask that question, he only wrote about dealing with it legally and legally. So you see how the issues need to be settled, and you need to change the law and the elections, including. And the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u228	Yes, please, the Rudenko Hennaday microphone and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u229	Thank you. There's a lot of problems with local self-governance, but the term "the world is true money," unfortunately or fortunately, has not lost its relevance. Therefore, there is a great desire in preparing parliamentary hearings to focus, in fact, on the fact that budget formation is made out of regions rather than to continue the shameful practice of driving bags in Kiev with packages to agree on financing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Question completed. I think you're hearing an offer made on behalf of the Committee by Boris Jakovitch Bespali to conduct them on October 12th. I'll tell you what's right. In May, we already have two parliamentary hearings. And so it's probably going to be more logical, and I think the drafters will agree that we're moving them to October 12th. Is there any objection? The authors agree. So I am voting on the decision to hold parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on the question of decentralization of power in Ukraine, the extension of the rights of local self-government, registration number 7055, to appoint them on 12 October this year. Please vote. [[13:42:08]] For 313 It's been decided. There is a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on "Development Outlooks". I'm sorry. "From the Development of Information Society in Ukraine" September 2005. Bill number 7151. The head of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u231	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the development of information society in Ukraine in September 2005. I want to add to the protocol, if there was your consent, the best date would be September 21st, maybe another. This week, the work of the National Deputies is scheduled for committees. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on March 9, reviewed the draft decree and unanimously recommends that it be placed in the order of the day and the decision. The main scientific and expert management of the issue that is proposed for consideration at parliamentary hearings is considered relevant and the holding of parliamentary hearings from this issue is considered appropriate. I would like to point out that these parliamentary hearings on this issue are supported by a broad scientific and educational community, business associations, organizations and the information and communication technology industry that have recently held their forum. They also ask the national deputies to support the holding of parliamentary hearings on the matter. I'll add to that. The initiators of this decision, and almost all of the members of the Committee on Science and Education, hope that through involvement in parliamentary hearings of the scientific and educational community, representatives of the authorities, associations of enterprises and organizations of the industry, information and communication technologies will be able to produce recommendations that will become strategic for the further development of the information society of Ukraine, a knowledge-based society. I want to point out that this is the only direction that I think is still of great scientific potential for today's development. So we think there's already quite a lot of problems. If we do not solve these problems, Ukraine may also lose this direction of development, which is still competitive in world society today. I also want to say that every year a summit on these issues is being held every year. And in these discussions, almost a hundred questions are covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u232	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, there were four national deputies. 12 minutes. Please, Sithina, follow Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u233	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, 74th constituency, Carpathians, People's Party faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The one who owns the information is the one who owns the world. An informed society can be called a society without hesitation. Ukrainian society, like everyone else today, is looking for ways to develop and use its own information space, and is studying the conditions of joining the global web. The urgency of this problem forces the faction of the People's Party to propose to all colleagues to support the draft of this decision, because this is also the moment of truth, when one cannot hesitate. The left-hand side of the evidence "for" will be left to the advantage, but it is our responsibility to define the legal field and establish the accepted and clear rules of the game for the sole purpose of creating a unified world standard-wide legislative framework to ensure that the information society in Ukraine takes place. Optimism adds that we're not going to be able to build up in a naked place: there is an information and telecommunications sector and a lot of experience in many areas, and with the introduction of information technologies, there is an increase in information resources and the number of users. At the same time, we must be prepared for the shock that awaits the citizens in general, that is, to make sure that the adjustment of the community to the new conditions takes place with the slightest loss to the nation’s mental health. But imagine the attractiveness of distance learning without breaking family ties. Inexhaustible and opportunities to join the world’s acquisitions of culture and art, as well as countless other steps in the civilized future. What is worth presenting the world through the world's information space is our cultural heritage, which will show and declare Ukraine a modern-day developed state. I mean, fantastic. Dear colleagues, I'm not afraid to repeat that to the position of the faction of the People's Party regarding the unequivocal support of this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u234	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u235	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we support this right proposal: to hold parliamentary hearings on the development of information society in Ukraine. But in every case there are two sides to the medal, and in this case there is a straight and backward one. On the surface we can see some positives, but on the other hand, there are also great negative risks. And I would like to emphasize that. On the one hand, really, connecting through the Internet to the wealth that has accumulated mankind is a very positive and necessary direction for development. On the other hand, we join these treasures because of so-called search systems, there are already several. But get into these search engines with one call -- and you'll get a result that's sometimes very and quite different. Thus, the world is ruled by the one who creates and keeps the search systems in check. And they're being controlled by someone who's clearly outside of Ukraine. And they're the ones that point us in the information direction that they're comfortable with, and maybe we don't know about other directions. That's the first thing I wanted to pay attention to. And the second. Another such negative phenomenon. Modern society is now described as receiving information in the body of society, a major part of the information that is important to it from two sources: the first one, the nearest one, and the second one, the TV box. And what's in this box, from this television screen, we're practically out of control. Today we have freedom, so-called, words, freedom to put into our people's minds all kinds of nonsense, TV shows, soap operas, advertising, and so on, all except the culture and spirituality that belongs to our people. So there's a zombie society through a TV screen in every house, every consciousness is made up of those who want to own the world. We need to make certain obstacles for those who take advantage of such opportunities for themselves, who abuse people and turn them into cattle. We can't let the world's capital turn people into cattle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u236	Please, John the Rabbit. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u237	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Mankind has entered the age of information societies when information is the most important resource. And that's the way in which the information resources come out in front of us, it calls us to a new vision, because we understand very well that the information resources are very quickly or very much increasing the dynamics of our lives. And if we don't understand and consider that information resources are dynamizing our lives, we just can't stand the competition on a global scale. So I support and our faction supports such parliamentary hearings. On the other hand, we have to assume that Ukraine is emerging from a global crisis, where all the technologies of industrial and pre-industrial society are being destroyed, and we need to develop today. That's why we have to put this problem on the plane today -- on which technology is to be developed today in Ukraine. In what technologies should we build our own internal market? Because each of you knows that any 70-80 percent economy works for the internal market and only 20 percent or 30 percent is export-oriented. Today, unfortunately, our economy is developing in the export direction itself. And we have a very underdeveloped, very small internal market. And here are the key problems for our development. So this is where we had to think about getting to the level of the actual deployment of information resources and information society. What else should we have used in these parliamentary hearings? It's very important to define the subject of these hearings so that we don't start talking from the media and end up there, for example, in space. I think we have a commission for the future led by academic Yukhnowsky. We were given these materials. And I would like the committee to take these developments into account and include them as an object for our discussion. Then we'll clearly define our resource, and we'll know what we're talking about today. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports these parliamentary hearings. What's more, I think we need to increase our attention to these problems. We have a lot of different inventions. Who are ready to change our lives at a technological level today, but we don't finance these directions, we don't pay attention to them. So we're going to vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u238	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u239	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We will certainly vote in favour of this project to hold parliamentary hearings on information society development in Ukraine. Ukraine, as a country that has given the world one of the best computers, is now far away in the field of technology. We're today buying different equipment and Japanese, and so-called yellow assembly, and we're not developing these technologies at all. We tried to bring our economy closer to Taiwan’s economy, which, in fact, without having any natural resources, entered the world market with its computers, monitors, and various domestic electronics. Unfortunately, that government, that president didn't hear us and Taiwan wasn't even set up in a commercial and economic relationship to protect our citizens there. I hope this government will draw conclusions from this. As the government is now planning to cut spending on the National Academy of Sciences by 15%. Is that normal? In order to develop the issue that we're talking about, it will be discussed once the budget is adopted. So I'm going to the government: don't do that, but you have to increase the cost of these technologies. We're doing a project today, we're looking at a project: The Internet at the University and we create it. And today, it is obvious that when the funds are virtually not allocated to libraries when they are lost, when their premises are sold, or broken down, we have to ensure that every village, every hamster, every locality in Ukraine has a library where a computer has access to the best of our Ukrainian libraries. Yes, we need to ensure broad access to information, to education, to our cultural acquisition, and to expand the ability of Ukrainian citizens to work and communicate through information and communication technologies. We should also discuss: Will there be a long time for only two cell - phone operators: Kyivstar and UMC? Why we now have the most expensive, one of the most expensive, mobile connections in Europe. Because monopolies were provided. Monopolism, but it could have been done in order to make it cheaper and to ensure a normal connection, accessible to each of us. Let's talk about all of these issues and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u240	Thank you. Well, Rudenko, I'd like to make a very persistent statement, please. Hennadia Rudenka's microphone. One minute. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u241	Thank you. Of course, the problem is information technology. But I'd like to say the following. With great difficulty, the modern Parliament can be called the meeting of the elite of Ukraine, I repeat, with great strain. But we are probably quite often like elites who suffer from giant mania. We're criticizing the Internet, we're criticizing the East, we're looking at the problems of libraries. But the venerable ones, perhaps we should look first of all at ourselves. We've created a "Council" system that works ineffectively, an information system, but works ineffectively. We're doing what's probably information technology is mostly used in "The Council" as a copying technique. We're copying documents, paper instead of actually working on a modern information model. And the MPs could see on their monitors that as they changed. We've become a paper dump, so let's start with ourselves and change, show, really, an elite attitude to information technology in the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m0.u242	Thank you. True, that's not exactly why we're voting, so when we're talking about this problem, that's the right thing to say. Question completed. I am voting on the decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the development of information society in Ukraine. [[September 21, 2005]] [[Registration number 7151]] Please vote. [[14:00:08]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps we would have made a small decision regarding the recovery of children this summer and the "Artec" camp. Remember, on Government Day, we discussed this issue. Here, take information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the knowledge and recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers, what to do to heal the children. No questions? Then I am voting for the Supreme Council Resolution on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to organize the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005 and the development of the International Children's Centre, Artek. Registration number 7024. Please be supportive. We discussed this on Government Day, and everyone said we should. Please vote. [[2:01:08]] For 242 Thank you. Question accepted. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 12, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 26, People's Party - 27, Socialists - 25, Block Timoshenko - 0, "One Ukraine" - 14, Social Democrats - 21, Ukrainian People's Party - 13, Democratic Ukraine - 13, "Will of the People" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Soyuz - 3, "Centre" - 1, "NDP-Republic" - 8, "Preflacation - 8. Thank you, Your Honor. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00.
