ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:14]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine Baloga Viktor Ivanovich and Sváš Dmitr Volodymirovich. Let's welcome our colleagues, wish them all the best. [[Applause]] Now, honourable colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 14, 2005. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered. One bill was adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was rejected, one bill was withdrawn, one was passed. Decision has been taken to include three issues in the agenda. The proposal for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of five bills has been rejected. Yeah, now it's an ad. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. On 14 June 2005, I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, that the authorized representative of the faction was additionally elected by the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with applications, requests, reports and perhaps proposals. Members of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to submit their statements. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine for the purpose of granting the Museum of the Eminent Ukrainian Cultural Actors of Lesi Ukraine, Mikoli Lisenka, Panas Saxaganski, Mikhail Staricke permission to obtain the State Act for the use of land within the protection zone. [[ZULINSK, DRACH, KURAS, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:46]] For 131 Request not supported. Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine on the problems of the establishment of the State Eastern Centre for Health, Occupational and Social Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:16]] Z-91 Request not supported. Andrija School to the President of Ukraine on the prohibition of the political party, the Ukrainian National Assembly, which openly and publicly attacked the national unity of the Ukrainian people, which sparked national and ethnic hatred. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:51]] For-93 Request not supported. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 32, Communists - 5, "Ukraine" - 28, "Timoshenko Block - 13, National Party and SPI - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 7, SPO -0, "Democratic Ukraine" -3, "One Ukraine", "The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - Zero, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Afterfractional" - 0. Valentina Matvieva to the President of Ukraine for violating the requirements of the Constitution and the Act on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with the State Service. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:59]] For 239. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Then we'll show the factions. Please vote. [[10:08:21]] For 265 Request accepted. Please give by factions at the request of the national MPs. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, Block Timoshenko - 15, "The People's Party" - 29, SPU - 21, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, SDPU - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, "One Ukraine" - 5, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, non-fractional - 14. Thus, the request was sent to the President of Ukraine. Groups of national deputies to the President of Ukraine on the reconstruction, restoration and expansion of the National Museum of Art. [[OLUIKO, ZARUBINSKI, PEARCH AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:09:19]] For-187 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:09:41]] For-300 Decision taken. Gennady RUDENKA to the President of Ukraine on the protection of the electoral rights of citizens and the resolution of the socio-political crisis, which resulted from several elections of the Bohrian City Head of Kiev-Swiatoshin region of Kiev and the subsequent lifting of their results. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:15]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine on the problems of bankrupt state-owned enterprises, in particular the Autosklo car factory Bondareva and Tehbudsklo. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:46]] For-73 Request not supported. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine to prevent corruption by officials and to prevent instability in the energy sector. [[GROWTH, FAITH, ALEXIE, MURDERER]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:22]] For the 220. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:11:43]] For 240 The request was accepted by the President of Ukraine. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the revitalization of the work of the Supreme Council in relations with the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers other authorities of the State and the local self-government of them by officials and officials in addressing urgent political and economic issues that arise in the State. To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the liquidation of the Odessa Institute of the Land Army. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Agriculture Policy on the issue of the payment and payment of wages, the elimination of discrimination in the payment of wages to miners of the Solotvinian Solarer Zacarpathian Region and the formal approach to the previous request. Peter SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister on the legal basis for sending a delegation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to participate in the pilgrimage, service of God, baptism and meeting with the Pope of Rome. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Prime Minister on the construction of a gas pipeline in the village of Holubiuk in the district of the Suma region. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Mesenovka Krasnopolska in the district of Suma. Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund for the construction of the project and for the carrying out of military-drying work in the city of Žaskov, Cherkas region. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister for the warning of the environmental disaster in the Preval region of Lugansk. Tarasa ČERNOVOLA and Ivan Vernidubov to the Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General on the powers and circumstances of the American company Hunt Oil in the development of oil on the Black Sea shelf. Alexia Korsakova and Alexander Lješinski to the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Bank, the Attorney-General on the relevance and circumstances of the additional issuance of funds. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the release of the son of the deceased in Afghanistan, Lieutenant John Chapille. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Vasil Hari to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the purpose of concealing government officials from the real value of implementing administrative and territorial reform and protecting citizens' rights against the aberration of government officials. Mikhail BAUERA to the Prime Minister on financial assistance to the municipal company Černivci International Airport. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Youth and Sports, regarding the provision of material assistance for the purchase of housing for many children. John the Rabbit to the Prime Minister for deep-sea work in the Kremenčuck watershed near the village of Sokirna Cherka district, which has resulted in extensive coastal destruction. Anatolya Rachánské to the Prime Minister for the award of compensation to residents of the villages of Chátnikové and Orlánka, affected by the extraordinary situation in the Saq region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as the financing of the design and construction of a water level management system in Lake Sasik-Sivash. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Eugene LAPINE to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service on the competence of the Presidential Decree “On urgent measures for the development of the aviation sector” and on the verification of the possible involvement of Secretary of State Alexander Zinchenk in illegal activities involving airlines in the aviation sector. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Prime Minister, Attorney General, on the situation around the children's centre of medical diagnostics and rehabilitation of Dobrodja in Kirovgrad. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of “Programme of Information for Public Schools, Computerization of Rural Schools” in Kitzman Electoral District No.203, Cherniewsky Region. Alexander LEŠINSKI AND MIKOLI COMARA to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the RNBO, the Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the situation in the oil and gas sector, including the rise in gas prices for the population and industry. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Prime Minister for the re-establishment of the Youth Guard Children's Centre in Odessa. Igora STAŠA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of apprenticeships of higher vocational school No. 34 of Strya Lvivské oblast. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Prime Minister for non-compliance with the obligations of the National Shareholder Company Energoate for the construction of social infrastructure facilities in the 30km area around the Hmělní nuclear power station. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for delaying the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions to grant subsidies in 2005 from the State Budget for the gasification of population sites, the construction, repair of automobiles, the prevention of accidents and technological disasters in residential and utility households and the execution of investment projects. Mr Michael MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister on the conditions of payment of work and the formation of costs for the maintenance of employees of the central authorities. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister concerning the increase in allocations from the State budget to ensure the payment of salaries to budget workers and the primary cost for the normal functioning of the budgetary institutions of the cities of Eupatoria, Saki and Sacks region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in 2005. WITNESSES to the Prime Minister for the funding of the completion of the memorial complex for Sevastopol’s defence participants in 1941 - 1942 Ms. GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Comprehensive Economic and Social Development Programme of the city of Sudak in 2005. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the construction of a kindergarten in the village of Borov of the region of Kyiv. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the violation of the Constitution and the Labour Laws by the management of the Equality District State Administration, the illegal dismissal of the chief physician of the Ravenna District Children's Hospital and the removal from office of the head of the Equality District State Administration for systematic violations of legislation. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the repayment of creditors' debt to teachers in the Dnipropetrov region. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the purpose of implementing administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of X-ray equipment to the treatment and prevention facilities of the Kirov district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oleg TJAGBOKA to the Prime Minister on the need for construction of cleaning facilities in Sambora, Lviv district. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister for mass imports into Ukraine of questionable products of low-quality animal origin for the production of sausage products and the observational position of the State and the Ministry of Health. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister for the Government's allocation of funds for the strengthening of the island of Kosa Tuzla and for compensation by the Russian Federation for the environmental damage caused by the construction of the dam. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister regarding the abuse and use of budgetary resources by the Plains County State Administration in the construction of the road to the specific mass of the village of Barmak in the Plains region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the further gasification of the settlements of the Kalanchik and the Upper Carniorrhogic regions of the Herson region. MICHELLE TO THE MINISTRY OFFICE FOR THE DEPLOYMENT OF THE APPROACH OF A Subsidy from the State Budget for the construction of pipelines and the gasification of populated areas, primarily rural ones. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the violation of the rights of pensioners of the Cherka’s “Oblagroprombud” pie owners. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister regarding the state-ordered calculations with the Cherka Science and Production Complex Photoprelad. Vassil BARTKIV to Vice Prime Minister Mikolio Tomenko, head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration for financing the construction of a cultural building in the village of Goshov in the Valley region. Istwana HYDOSH to Vice Prime Minister Mikli Tomenka for information on the work of Ukraine's Internet visions. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General on the verification of the abuse of power, the excess of power, the corruption of the military prosecutor of the Central Region of Ukraine, the counsellor of Demenka’s justice, and the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals on the matter. Jurya BOJKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of renting premises in the territory of the National Reserve “Sofia Kyivska”. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the illegal construction of a multi-story residential building between the streets of Bajov, Cracow, and Popudrenka in Kiev. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General for an inappropriate and biased civil case and for an unfair decision by the Court of Appeal of the Sumu district. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General on the inappropriate response to citizens’ complaints about the ongoing investigation of a criminal case by the Prosecutor’s Office in the Chernivets region. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of legislation during the registration of co-owners of the “Sun’s” apartment buildings on Mayakovsky’s prospectus in Kiev. MICHAYLA POLANCHIĆI to the Attorney General on unlawful detention without trial and on the abuse of the resident of the village of Barišovka in the area of Kyiv during interrogation. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Attorney General on the outcome of the parliamentary appeal regarding the bribery of members of the electoral commissions during last year’s presidential election. TO THE Attorney - General’s Office, Boris is responsible for violating the rights and interests of Kiev’s residents in the landowner’s office for the construction of new buildings. Jury BOYCA to the Attorney General on the legality of the transfer of more than 677 hectares of hayhair to the village of Pukhovka in the Brovarsky district of Kyiv region for rent on 30 years of farming society with limited responsibility “Trebukhivski”. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General on the illegal activity of the former Prosecutor of the Herson region of Banchuk. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the prolonged investigation of the disappearance of George Gongadze. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the situation in the village of Novoselyvka in the Odessa region of Saratsk, in connection with the death of people in a car accident. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Defense, on the facts that contain signs of untargeted use of land secured by the Ministry of Defence. Valérie ASADCHEVA to the Attorney General for failure to execute court decisions by officials. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the groundless violation by the prosecution of the Plain area of disciplinary conduct against the deputy head of the Lech State Tax Administration, which led to his illegal dismissal. [[PETER, DONE, SUPRUNE, AND OTHERS]] John VERNIDUBOV to the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Ministry of Health regarding the government’s activities in the market for alcoholic beverages and possible signs of corruption in the preparation of the Cabinet’s decree. LEG YUCHNOVSKI to the Attorney General for the violation of land law in the use and rental of land of the Broad-Hungarian Rural Council of the Winnicki district, Winnicki district. Mr. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the actions of the Luhansk District Attorney’s Office in investigating the falsification of the election of the President of Ukraine in the city of Lysichansk. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney-General on the investigation of a criminal case involving the theft of the former management of the company “Rajagrobud”, located in the city of Novomirgorod of Kirovograd. Mr. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Attorney General about the illegal actions of the judge of the Komsomol City Court of Poltav district of Okun. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the actions of a member of the National Commission on Administrative Relations, which contains signs of crime. [[MILK, LUKE, CORRESPONDENT AND OTHERS]] TO THE Attorney General’s Office for the protection of the rights of a citizen of Bondar who has been violated as a result of illegal actions by law enforcement officers. Mr Ivana Vernidubov to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the facts of violations and falsifications in the creation of the party’s regional organizations The National Union “Our Ukraine”. Mr. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the grounds of delaying the criminal investigation into the assassination of Secretary of the Hmelnicki Municipal Society of the Ukraine of Schwarzman. Mr. Aleksandra STANA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for Information Review, published by the Prime Minister on the use of occupied posts as part of the Ukrainian environment for useful purposes. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the numerous offences committed by officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the leadership of the Mikolai District Administration. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs to verify the possible involvement of officials of the Attorney General's Office and to surround the Ukrainian President with a criminal conspiracy with a group of Russian businessmen, Berezowski. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on intentional delay and inaction in the investigation of the criminal case by the Kupyan Prosecutor’s Office of the Kharkiv Region. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State concerning the legality of the Ukrainian President's orders to create regional receptions. MIKOLI KRUĆA to the Attorney-General on the illegal privatization of the Prolisco Children's Health Institute in the village of Mihalche, in the region of Ivano-Frankov. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights for the inflammation of national and religious enmity with regard to the parishes of the Holy George Church of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the village of Šubranec of the Zastavanni district of Cherniewec. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service, to bring the Chinese city’s head to justice for violating the constitutional rights of citizens. Vladimir WOJŠA and Michael DOBKIN to the Attorney General on the status of investigating the beating of members of the faction of the Social Democratic Party in the city of Uzhgrad in May 2005. Tamara Proscuratou to the Attorney General for violating the right of citizens to own and privatize land by the Ternopil City Council. Aleksandra TKALENKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Herson Interstate Environmental Prosecutor’s Office in the areas of surveillance and invocation of responsibility for violators of environmental legislation in the Skadavian Medical Zone. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs on the abuse of office, forgery, non-payment of salary, corruption by the Chief of the Lviv City Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv district of Kurocka. [[CARMAZIN, THE DELIVERY, THE KOAT]] Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney General for the delay in investigating the criminal case of the illegal transfer to the Ministry of Defence of the premises of the military hospital, the garrison building of officers and other private entities. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, head of the State Property Fund, for improper reaction to the facts of illegal alienation by the Kyiv City State Administration, which resulted in abuses in the use of the facilities of the Kyiv Republic Planetarium. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the appropriateness of the law of arresting employees of the Ohtyr Department of Combating Organized Crime in the city of Tristanec Sumska District. [[DISHUTIN, NECKY, DECISIONS AND OTHERS]] Mykoli MELNIKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the non-return of flour to the open stock company “Vendic Combine of Agricultural Products” of the Mogilov-Podil district of Winnicki district. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General on the grounds of the procedural decisions of the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev on the basis of the facts of the violations of legislation. [[WORKER, PERSONS, SLEEPERS, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General on the legality of the alienation of consumer property in the Kyiv region. Jury KARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of the Criminal Case for causing serious bodily harm to the inhabitants of the village of Malaga Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Secretary of the RNBO, the Heads of the Council of Judges, the Head of the Supreme Court on the situation of appointment of the head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernig region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the violations of the appointment of the Rector of the Vinick State Teacher’s University. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Minister of Education and Science for the financing of the reconstruction and construction of the Pisacan High School in the district of Lviv. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOV to the minister of defense for delay in housing families of soldiers killed in the Republic of Iraq. Ms. Catherine SAMOLIK to the Minister of Education and Science for the financing of the John’s School of Public Education in the district of Herson. Alexander EDINA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy for the Restructuring and Unification of the Kirovograd branch of the Open International University of Human Development “Ukraine” and the Kirovograd Institute for Postgraduate Education of Agricultural Workers. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to the Minister of Agriculture Policy on the protection of property rights of members of the former CSP of Lenin of the region of Chernigiv. Valerija Suščevića to the Minister of Health on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, in part of the free and extended care of persons with disabilities by medical means of rehabilitation. ROBERT to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the rights of civil aviation aircrews to social protection. valentine SAVIC to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in financing the construction of a water dehydration station in Olewsk, U.S.A. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA and Vitalia HOMUTINIKA to the Minister for Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service for the provision of information on the number of criminal cases opened by law enforcement authorities for charges of violations of electoral legislation during the 2004 election of the President of Ukraine. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the non-reorganization of the Illin High School in the Chaplin district of Herson. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of a diathermoccoagulation apparatus to the Romanian district hospital in Žitomir. LUKYANENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the appointment of Jolobecko to the post of Chief of the District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Chernigiv region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Ministry of Health for the poisoning of children with acetone in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. PAUL QUICHANA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy for the Transfer to Municipal Property of the City of Gádzác, the home of a one - year agricultural school. Valentina SAVICKO to the Ministry of Finance to accelerate the channelling of State budget subsidies to the completion of school construction in the village of Velika Gorbaša Novograd-Wolin district of Žitomir. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on December 11, 2004, in the newspaper “The Mirror of the Week” information about the presence of the Ukrainian Presidential Office of Fighters from Undercover Warming State. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the involvement in the blockade of the Shevchenkov District Council of Kiev of private security structures and the violation of the citizen’s right to information on the activities of local authorities. [[BONDARENKO, LABEDOVSKI, ROBERT]] Ms. FOMENKO to the Minister of Finance for Underfunding Local Budgets for Payments for Certain Categories of Citizens. MICHAEL MELNIČUKA to the Ministry of Finance regarding the low level of pay for district workers, district administrations of agriculture and food. MICLE JANKOVSKI to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of ambulances for the city of Gorlovka Donetsk. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Ministry of Finance to finance the completion of the midwifery building in the city of Mikolayev Lviv. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of speeding up open trade for the purchase of leisure services for groups of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Igora ŠURMI to the Minister of Justice for the pressure of the local authorities and inaction with regard to the inflammation of interreligious hostility with regard to the parishes of the Holy George Church of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the village of Šubranec of the Zastavanni district of Cherniewec. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Ministry of Finance, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, regarding the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the school in the village of Medwin Boguslav district of Kiev. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Minister of Justice for Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procrastination for the Open Shareholders Association “Novoskov Pipe Plant”. Jury SOLOMATANA and Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal actions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Luhansk Region in detaining residents of the city of Lysicánska for questioning in connection with the falsification of the election of the President of Ukraine. Katerina FOMENCO to the Minister of Agrarian Politics on the lack of supply of diesel fuel for the spring and field work of the Triotic region of Lugansk. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of Violations of Law and Offences by Officials in the Skadovian region of the Hersonian region. MIKOLI PAULJU to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the unlawful refusal of Odessa residents to grant the status of a person to whom the Act on the Status of War Veterans applies, guarantees their social protection. Oleg BILORUS to the Kiev City Head, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, for an unsatisfactory response to the MP’s appeal to improve the living conditions of a multi - child family. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Head of Government of the Ukrainian National Fund for Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation on the legal settlement of compensation for losses suffered in the years of World War II by inhabitants of the Sub-Karpathian Russia-Karpata Ukraine in the concentration and labour camps of Hungary. Oleg Gracheva to the Head of the Security Service on the Legality of Creation in Ukraine of the Center for Belarusian Opposition. Michael POLENCHIĆI to the Head of the State Property Fund on the illegal transformation into private property of the Vilnius State Mining Metallurgical Combine of Titanic and Circonic Concentrations. Vassil SPAK to the Head of the State Tax Administration regarding the illegal activities of the tax inspection of the Derjezhna district of Hmeljna Region. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the State Tax Administration for the release of the deputy head, the head of the State Tax Administration in the province of Lech and the delaying of his application for reinstatement at work. [[PETER, DONE, SUPRUNE, AND OTHERS]] Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Pension Fund for the benefit of citizens who were disabled during military service. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court to examine the legality of court decisions in the case of the so-called citizen of Babic to the joint Ukrainian-American company Viner Ford Kyiv on renewal at work. [[Taran-terren, Lukanenko, Kirilchuk and others]] Istwana HYDOSH to the Head of the State Tax Administration regarding the granting of a permit to purchase a building with the Democratic Association of the Hungarians of Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Kiev City Head on the question of reconstruction, restoration and expansion of the National Art Museum. [[OLUIKO, ZARUBINSKI, PEARCH AND OTHERS]] Group of National Deputies to the Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, Head of the Court of Appeal of the Suma Region for Unlawful Actions by the Judge of the City District Court of Yarosenka, concerning the limited liability of the Ochtyr Oil Processing Plant. [[CARMASINE, HYZIZE, CARMASINE]] Igor ŠURMI to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the violation of the procedural rules concerning citizens of Zaporozhye law enforcement agencies, the lack of consideration and neglect of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. SINCHEN’S Sergei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the dangerous situation in Lysichansk Lugansk region among the diabetics in connection with insulin insecurity. SUNCHAN’S Sergei to the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Transport and Liaison, on the manufacturing practices of the students of the Pásnjan Professional Airways of the Lugansk Region. Anatolia GREZYEVA, Leonidas VERNIGORI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the corruption plot of the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence and the first deputy minister of the environment of Ukraine Lizun. Thus, honourable colleagues, 141 MPs have been asked. By factions: "Our Ukraine" - 21, Communists - 30, "Regions of Ukraine" - 21, "SDPU - 6, "One Ukraine" - 3, "The People's Party - 11, "SPU - 16, "BUT - 11, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 1, "NPP - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "The Ukrainian People's Party - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, non-fractional - 9. That's 141. Let us move on to the presentations by representatives of MPs and factions. Dear colleagues, before the speech, I want to make an announcement. Today, at 2.30 p.m., as we agreed, the conference room will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council with the participation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions and the leadership of the State Building Committee. I also invite a representative of the Prime Minister and a representative of the President to this meeting. We will discuss the issue of electoral legislation. Nestor Sufric from the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy stated recently that nine domains, ten marten ovens and two convectors had been stopped in Ukraine. Where metal is produced, Russian is spoken. Overall, production of mining and metallurgical complex products decreased by 7 to 8 per cent in May/June, compared with the same period last year. So far, the situation, as government officials say, is managed. But will she stay like this for a long time? We are told that objective factors are responsible for everything. Declining world metal prices, entering the world market for Chinese products. That is true, but it is true that power, in orange power, was well aware of it. And that is also what our coalition Government has been talking about. What measures have been taken by the new orange authorities to avoid the crisis? The price of railways has been dramatically increased, and reprivatization campaigns have begun, and so forth. In general, when Ukrainian metalsmiths faced a difficult situation, power instead of helping them was forced to drown them. At the end of the year, the government reports: we planned this rate of economic growth, and they have been reduced. Therefore, the promises have not been fulfilled. There's no pension, there's no new jobs. Moreover, all businessmen who did not know how to invest money in more promising production and retraining of staff would be charged. But first, what has been done by the authorities to re-engineer the metalsmiths and miners? Have any sectors been identified as priority? We've got almost all the machinery we need in person. It would seem that if you had come to the conclusion of the exclusive efficiency of government management, you and the shovel would be in your hands! So far, however, only one thing has been done — they have united the airlines, which the same factories are protesting. It wasn't a strategy, it was a strategy, it was a different one -- it created problems that were then heroic and solved. Secondly, the authorities have created all the conditions to discourage local and foreign investors from investing in innovative projects. This is the removal of industry benefits, and the closure of free economic zones where production is located, and priority development areas, and the reprivatization fever, which puts the investor at risk: you buy the factory, you rebuild it, and then the people's power comes to take it away! In general, Ukraine is facing an economic disaster, and the leadership is renovating its palaces, testing its copper-producing household and resuscitating its political opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u3	Yes, John Alexanderovich of Herasimov is invited from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. To prepare for John the Reaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u4	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Complaints and regrets about improving pensions continue to come to the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans and the Committee of the Supreme Council. The reason for this is the failure of the Ukrainian law on compulsory State pension insurance. The shortcomings of this law were evident even before it was enacted. Many deputies, especially the Communist faction, drew attention to this and did not vote in favour of it. But contrary to this, the law was passed. Decision No. 1783 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which had illegally reduced the average wage, had significantly exacerbated the situation. 2002 for 70 bracelets, which deprived most of the pensioners of any increase in their pension. The resulting increase in the pension to the minimum of living has led to a level playing field, which has caused another fair wave of indignation to those pensioners who have spent their entire lives in good faith but who receive a pension at the level of those who have worked at some level. ..how funds were allocated to improve pensions, not only did they not solve the problem, but they created additional tensions in society. There is no question of eliminating the imbalance in the pension security of officers who have been dismissed from service in different lines. Thus, to date, the absolute majority of pensioners do not receive a pension under the Universal State Pension Insurance Act. Is that what such a law can be called? It requires an immediate audit, and it is necessary to begin with the repeal of the Cabinet's decree of 1783. Do you remember what devastating and just criticism it has faced by many deputies, including those who have now come to power, what persistent demands for its immediate abolition? We must then be consistent, and come to power, to bring this to a logical conclusion. And another very important one. A week later, on 22 June, the Day of the Great Homeland War of the Soviet people will begin against the German-Fashistic invaders. The Year of the Great Victory of Our People over Fascism has been declared a veteran year in Ukraine. Veterans propose to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of the President, the Government on the day of mourning, heroism and the memory of the victims of war. In the history of almost every Ukrainian family, there is nothing left. Of the seven generations, the unit has disappeared. Three generations have grown, and the dead are all sought. Parliaments and Governments of many countries around the world are pursuing such actions: Germany, Italy, France, Austria, Poland, Czech Republic. This event will give new impetus to the ongoing efforts in the country to perpetuate the memory of the victims and to show greater concern for the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u5	Calm down, fellows of honor! There's a rule! We'll vote if we have to. I'm asking you to calm down! Ivan Rishnyak, faction of the People’s Party. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u6	Ivan Rishnyak, 162 constituency, Sumstina. Statement by the faction of the National Party about the situation in the grain market in Ukraine Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The faction of the People’s Party today is deeply concerned about the situation in the country’s grain market. Consider for yourself: Ukrainian grain production of 70 - 80 percent, if not more, determines the profitability of agricultural enterprises, but is this normal when last year’s crop yields accounted for nearly 42 million tons twice as high as previous crop yields? A similar situation is expected this year. According to experts, agriculture will also receive a good shaft of grain. But at its cost, which in some farms is up to 700 and more dollars per tonne, and the purchase price of 690 dollars offered by the government, that's going to be the last, in our view, a blow to the peasant, because under these conditions it won't even cover the cost of production. In general, the government plans to purchase only three million tons of grains into the State Reserve instead of 8, 10 to keep the price from falling below the cost. What will the poor peasant do with the rest of the grain? And what's he gonna have to do with it? Once again, will the worthlessness of its grain be given to foreign traders who have been robbing our peasant for more than 10 years? What, then, should this be before the development of the Ukrainian grain market as a priority economic sector? Where are the innovations that our ministry of all, so to speak, promises to the villagers of the golden mountains? The time limit is running out, the south is already harvesting, and the government is playing games with the government’s definition of a government agent for the purchase of grains to state resources and the formation of rules for the game in the grain market. In this regard, the People’s Party faction requires the government to immediately identify the public operator for the purchase of grain by providing him with appropriate credits and other resources rather than a deserted special fund in what is called an agrarian fund, which, by the way, is still not working. There's no way Mineconomy can sanctify it. To promote the creation of a domestic grain trader who would successfully work on both the internal and the external markets of grain. In both cases, first and second, it could be. represent the interests of a state-owned shareholding company called the Bread of Ukraine, which has a fairly detailed system of farming and grain processing enterprises, human resources potential and can successfully resist grain traders abroad. And the last. To promote the creation of a domestic grain market that would work successfully on both the inside and the outside of the grain market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u7	Mikola Nightshenko, Democratic Ukraine. Vadim Gurov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u8	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Sumska District, Democratic Ukraine MP, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen! The Democratic Ukraine Deputies Group is one. has one of the highest indicators in the Supreme Council in support of government bills aimed at raising the level and quality of life of the Ukrainian people, overcoming such shameful phenomena as poverty, unemployment. We also expected adequate conduct from the government. Today, however, we are concerned about the situation in connection with the implementation of a number of articles in the 2005 budget. This includes article 51, which provides 400 million for investment projects or support to the State Budget, local budgets. Articles 45 to 420 million for the gasification of rural areas. Article 46, which provides for nearly 380 million people to build and repair roads for municipal property. In order to implement these articles, the government had long had to agree on the manner in which the cost was used and to approve the lists of objects. Despite repeated public statements by the government’s management regarding the distribution of funds by new approaches, new algorithms, new philosophy, so far we have no order or list of these objects. This endangers the use of these funds. It only takes 60 days for tender procedures to be carried out according to legislation. We're wasting our golden time building. Because of the lack of funding and the lack of clarity, a large number of transitional objects simply leave behind, even without protection. Democratic Ukraine is also concerned about the sharp rise in the cost of buildings built at the expense of the state budget. In particular, the cost of construction of gas pipelines, gas pipelines, and gasification of buildings is nearly doubled. Today, there are virtually no mechanisms for state expertise to assess the value of state - invested objects. Corruption chains remain unexploded: the project entity, the contractor. Often, the responsibility and responsibility of concluding contracts, building circuit, city, municipal property at the expense of the State do not involve the local executive authorities. Hence, a low quality for the unfinished construction of nearly 3,000 objects totalling 22 billion dollars. The Democratic Ukraine parliamentary group believes that such behaviour by the Government has had a significant impact on the results of the Supreme Council's recent vote in favour of government bills, and we demand that the status of execution be urgently rectified with the participation of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u9	Vadim Gurov, a member of the "One Ukraine" group, is invited to speak. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u10	Vadim Gurov, Kriubas, "The Only Ukraine". Comrade Schufrich acted as a politician. And now I'm going to call it a metallurgy. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at the meeting considered the situation of withdrawal from the crisis situation of mining and metallurgical enterprises in Ukraine and the stability of Ukraine's state budget from their activities. It has been noted that there has been a crisis in the field of negative trends, both internal and external. The decline in the growth rate over the past four months has been due to changes in the working conditions of mining and metallurgical enterprises by increasing rail tariffs and freight transport, falling U.S. dollar rates, and worsening global market conditions. A negative impact on the work of enterprises is the increase in debt from VAT repayment. In particular, it is necessary to note the impact on the current world market environment of the change in the nature of the trade in China, from the net of the importer to the net of the exporter of the rental. Thus, in 3 months 2005, exports from China increased 4.5 times to 9 million tons compared to the same period last year. While imports have declined almost twice, to 6 million tons. Saving this trend by the end of the year is estimated by experts to reduce the market share of other countries except China by 20 million tonnes. In view of the situation, domestic enterprises began to produce major floating units for repairs. So the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine from the budget-making sector can be transformed into a cost-effective and significant reduction in production if no action is taken at the same time. In July, the metallurgy will not add 330 tons of iron, 400,000 tons of steel, and half a million dollars of rent. In view of the foregoing, the following measures are proposed to ensure the stability of Ukraine’s steel industry, namely: a moratorium on rising rail tariffs, electricity prices and gas prices, and the promotion of the internal market for rent. In view of the negative trend in the activities of mining and metallurgical enterprises in Ukraine, the Committee proposes to consider the issue of de-crisis at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will lead to the stabilisation of Ukraine’s revenues from their activities. The draft corresponding decision is added. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u11	Eugene Kirilchuk, from the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, is invited to speak. John Sidorovich Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to raise the problem of beating officials and bullying voters in state-owned grassroots structures, which has become the norm in recent years. In this room, you and I have adopted many laws to protect the most vulnerable news of the population. But notice that in order to get the necessary help from the state institutions, a disabled person needs to be presented with a social protection system of 5-7 different kinds of papers, papers, declarations and copies of documents, and so on and several times a year. Even worse customs must be passed to those who want to buy land under construction or to transform housing, whether it is a physical person or a legal person. And while there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that determines the order of...................................................................................................... For an official who controls this issue, it's the gold bottom of profit, because he collects 50 different documents for which a person has to pay several thousand dollars officially. I'm not talking about how much money has to be spent off the record. Another source of defeat is the sanatorium. Again, the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision to approve labour and services tariffs is set at 607. Individual services need to be performed ten times, allowing us to abuse in huge amounts. And any such service can cost between 500 and 1,700 dollars. There are legends about the country’s day. In the past regime, this institution has become an organizer of auto - mafia roofing. Today, 22 manuals and all the fees are required to obtain a suitable service. There could be six or seven of them state-owned, and the rest of them are already established commercial structures around this. I think that this list could go on for a long time. But this needs to be done. I think we need to create an interlocutory commission, and we need to review the Cabinet's decisions that have been taken in recent years, and we need a mandate from the Court of Auditors, the Auditors, the investigating authorities to put an end to these abuses, the customs and the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u13	Ivan Sidorovich Boki is invited to speak from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u14	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The Ukrainian village, rightly called the cradle of our nation, is once again in danger of damaging experiments. Some of the population’s unpredictability has led to the disappearance of many historic settlements, small and medium villages. In modern times, these criminal experiments have continued. Land reform, hospital closures, schools, libraries, clubs, the elimination of collective farms, the elimination of bus routes have resulted in unemployment, demoralization, the disunity of rural communities, and the dire demographic consequences. The mechanization of labour processes, the introduction of new technologies, has been halted. Instead, peasants are forced to return to their ancestral farming methods. Animals, like a vast competitive sector, have been destroyed. Common household services, books, medical aids, and rural trade have become inaccessible. The previous regime essentially led to the destruction of the village. Unfortunately, the destruction of villages and rural communities is planned now. The planned administrative and territorial reform follows blindly the Western approaches to the organization of local authorities and does not take into account the specificities of the settlement network, or Ukrainian traditions, or the lessons of the near past, when the experiments on agriculture and rural councils only made the life of the peasant worse. There are no economic, financial, or social conditions for such changes. The rural budgets are largely subsidized, and to expect, in terms of the collapse of the economy, to be filled quickly, is an unacceptable illusion. It is unlikely that planned village investments can be made if, even in a more or less prosperous sector, the state is unable to attract serious investment, particularly domestic investment. Disengageing medical, educational, and cultural facilities from the village is more than irresponsible. The Socialist faction, which in its own time initiated the Rural Priority Development Act, has done much to preserve the rural, educational network. Recognizing the responsibility of the peoples or Ukraine's future, new administrative and territorial experiments are premature and unprepared. Inevitable economic, moral, social, demographic, and downturns will be inevitable under the regulation of the village’s structure. Socialists, as an integral part of the government coalition, are proposing to stop these experiments on villages and peasants, to take real steps to bring the rural economy and infrastructure out of the foothills into which it has been thrown by an unreasonable policy of the previous government, and only on this basis, taking into account our traditions and the ability to reform the administrative and territorial system. Reforms should not seek the village but rather raise it up, stimulate its development, give the peasant free work, feed the state, exploit the wealth and acquisitions of modern civilization, eventually restore the peasant’s confidence in tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u15	Mikola Komar is invited to speak from the faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Michael Sidorenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, as you know, yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council, where a decision was taken to immediately include in the agenda of the day session and to consider four bills concerning violations by the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukrainian Laws and Human Rights Violations in Ukraine. The urgent need for consideration of these projects is clear right now. Yes, the Supreme Council today has nearly 30 fellow deputies, so-called "dead souls", who are dishonoring the present power. Remember, after the approval of his government, Prime Minister Timoshenko promised that by the next day, new government officials would be appointed. Similar promises were made by President Yushchenko. More than four months later, accomplices continue to ignore the law and the promises of their leaders. An example of legal nihilism is demonstrated by such high officials as the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the head of the Turkish Institute, ministers of finance at Pinzenik, the economy of Terjehohin, the transportation of Chervonenko; the head of the Semenyuk Holding Fund, the head of the Nacrada Broadcasting Foundation, Shevchenko, and other high-ranking officials. They continue with the articles of the Constitution, the Law on State Service and the Law on Corruption. Do not representatives of today’s authorities believe so much in their prospects in government that they cling to the MP’s mandate by brutally violating Ukraine’s legislation? Does the law apply only to opposition in the new Ukraine? The "Regions of Ukraine" faction believes that the consideration and adoption by the Supreme Council of a bill on the specificities of discharge of persons who associate the mandate of a national deputy with other activities will give legal basis once and for all to stop the violation of legislation by the co-founders. We also require consideration of three human rights bills (No.7540 on changes and additions to the CPC on the contract, no less than 50 national deputies and 7373 and 7183 on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of both the individual and the citizen. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" states that the immediate consideration of these four bills will be a prerequisite for the restoration of the fruitful legislative work of the Supreme Council. And I should apologize to Red, I called him. He's already in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u17	Mikola Sidorenko of the Ukrainian People’s Party has the floor for the speech. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u18	The Ukrainian village understands both Ukrainian and Russian, but it communicates and chooses Ukrainian. Declaration by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to prevent the destabilization of the grain market: "The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the Government of Ukraine to the danger of crisis in the grain market, which may arise from the beginning of the 2005 harvest harvest. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that government regulation of grain prices should ensure the profitability of grain cultivation, such as covering the costs of agricultural producers, taking into account the increase in credit resources, fuel, mortars, seeds, techniques and grains. We are deeply concerned that so far there are no agreements between grain traders and grain producers, and the minimum purchase prices for grain declared by today's government are, in fact, cost-effective. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers has every opportunity to apply widely the market instruments of the state’s influence on the grain market. In order to prevent possible destabilisation in the grain market, the government should immediately allocate financial resources and implement an effective mechanism for public and regional purchases of new crops. Government and regional authorities should take urgent measures to secure markets, including outside Ukraine, and encourage grain traders to make purchase deals with the manufacturer. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party warns that a one-sided fixation of grain prices, which is not accompanied by the implementation of additional economic and organizational measures by the government, cannot ensure the stability of the grain market and prevent crisis. Many years of experience have shown that in such a situation, grain prices fall below the level established by the government, and there are speculative instincts to continue the practice of maintaining prices manually: banning free movement of grain and other obstacles to free trade in grain. This eventually results in a natural overload of the grain market and a further drop in prices. Minimum purchase prices lose market price indicator functions, turn into a tool for production profitability. The poorest households are the most vulnerable to such policies. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that the government’s policy on grain production should become its strategy. Agricultural producers, such as farmers, need complex, effective support mechanisms. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the government to its failure to implement the Ukrainian Act on State Support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski is invited to address the faction of "Our Ukraine". Prepare Vasil Gureev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u20	Yavorov, Zovva, Yavorowski I want to tell my honorary colleague who said that only Russian is spoken where metal melts. I find it very interesting to learn, and what language is spoken where they steal. But I'm talking about something else. I would like to remind you and myself that we actually went out with you as a parliament on the finish line. I want to remind you, once again, to myself and to the electorate: there's only a very small section left. And so I would like to testify today that you and I, as parliamentarians, have survived the peak of our highest glory, and most of all we could do, is during a period of tragic political crisis at the end of last year during the presidential election, we have not allowed Ukraine to fall into the chasm. I think that's what's important. But I went up to this rostrum to say something else on behalf of the faction. Dear colleagues, there is such a feeling that our collective mind, our parliament, has succumbed to some kind of magic of a small group of people who have come to realize that they will have to answer to the law. And that's why he's carrying us. It's like we're going to the autopilot finish. I'm going to remind you of an illustration: The man was entrusted with the wolf in the sheepfold and carried out the sheep. He let his Syrk go and set up in a haystack to shoot the wolf. And he says: “In the middle of the night I heard something like a tobacco on my shoulder, and I shouted. And I can see it's my Syrko, and I can't stop anyway." This is the impression sometimes with our collective mind. What did we take yesterday? We have forgotten that we are being heard by the people, the common people. We passed a law that could bring 150 deputies together and get any bandit out of prison. So let's do a little prison at the Kiev Hotel, let's have our little prosecutor. For we are with you. We are untouchable. Do you understand what people in these militia departments are thinking about us right now? You've even heard about it from the rostrum. How could this illegal law happen to us in general, dear colleagues? I'm ashamed again. And I ask the President to veto it, because there will be no such thing in the world. The other one. Yesterday we're talking about getting our middle class, we don't have cars, it's clear in the law that only up to eight years can we get cars into Ukraine so that our people can do anything, but this Russian scratch, which is called "Volga" or these pre-diving "drunks." No, we refuse. As a result, I would like to conclude by repeating the words of the wise man Dizrela, Prime Minister of Britain: "Every deputy is the man who has come to the top of the beloved pillar." Remember, we have Syrko, not the wolf on our back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u21	Vasil Mikolaiovich Guriev from the factions of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Solomon in response to an unsatisfying response to a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u22	Basil Gureyev, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Dear colleagues! In this room, we have repeatedly discussed with you the problems of the formation of state industrial policy and especially the difficult conditions that have arisen for the operation of the shipbuilding of our country. Today these problems are getting worse, and shipbuilders and ship repairers at the Ucrossudprom Association meeting at the international association of shipbuilders and ship repairers in the Black Sea region, as well as the Confederation of the Maritime Industry, have returned to addressing problematic issues. On the basis of these meetings, the discussion was adopted by the President of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister. Shipbuilders and ship repairers request a review of the appeal and an immediate decision on the normal functioning and development of the sector. Ukraine has managed in 2000 to provide the country’s shipbuilding with minimal assistance in the face of the crisis that has taken place in the past. This is the adoption of 2 Laws: the Shipbuilding Support Act in Ukraine and the special economic zone of the Mikolai. During the period of operation of these laws, conditions were created for the transition from survival tactics to development strategies. Production volumes have grown by 2.5 times, average wages by 3 times. Payments to the budget and outside the budget have increased, investment attractiveness of enterprises, competitiveness, and positive social and political effects have emerged. The active position of the people's deputies in opposition to the Government's proposal was shown in the Hall, the President's veto was overcame, and the Law came into force again by 2012, and the shipbuilders and ship repairers are very grateful to you, your fellow respected colleagues. Regrettably, the sector’s recovery process, which began with such difficulties, was halted due to the adoption of changes to the 2005 budget. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers did not consider a new one, nor did it continue the previously approved order of the list of enterprises that apply to this law. Cancelled VAT rate on sales of works intended for use and consumption outside the customs territory of Ukraine. At the same time, the cost of shipbuilding and shipbuilding increased by 20%. In addition, temporary import taxation has changed, basic taxation is the cost of a ship that makes it impossible to perform repairs, and is uncompetitive. Taking into account these and other problems that arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word has to be given to Yuri Solomatin in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request. All documents required for this are in the order set out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u24	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues, dear compatriots, representatives of national minorities. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I have to contact the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a request to give me a word for an extracurricular statement in response to my request of February 28. The main issue is the brutal violation by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the rights of national minorities to create conditions for the use of native language at the level of European standards. In this connection, on May 18th, a statement by the Communist faction, entitled "Disblock sabotage by the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine", was circulated to the Council of Europe for a letter of ratification by the Council of Europe of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, which I will now be short-listed. It has been two years since the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has so far not sent an appropriate instrument of ratification to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, which is the final step of the country's accession to the Council of Europe documents. As set out in March 2005, the President of Ukraine, Kuchma Leonid Danilović, secretly agreed to refrain from transferring the depository, the ratification letters of Ukraine concerning the European Charter of Regional Languages or the minority for intended reasons. By doing so, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, puts themselves above the Supreme Council of Ukraine, subtly exceeds its authority, and brutally tortures Ukraine’s international obligations. Therefore, the Ukrainian faction demanded and required the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first, to immediately consider Bills 7098 and 7469, which will settle this issue at the legislative level and put forward a legislative condition within one month to the Council of Europe. And a vote on Bills 7098 and 7469 in a packet. We strongly condemn the double.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Melniczuk is also dissatisfied with the answer. I've submitted all the necessary documents for my statement. In this regard, please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u26	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. The Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management gave me an answer to my parliamentary request. Of course, Vasily Andriyovich Stasuk, chairman of the committee, was right when he informed me of the situation on the State Committee. And about resource allocation, and about how conservation and flood control programs are being implemented in Ukraine, about everything. We understand that there was no funding, we understand that 395 million has been allocated under the programme, and in just four years 95 has been allocated. We know the tragedy in Zakarpatt, we know what's going on in the Chernivecki region, in the U.S., in Putilski, in Novoselecki and not only in the area. But my parliamentary request and my request was to draw attention to the problem of the Novoseltsky region of the village of Green Guy, Vanchikovitsa, Kosticani, Dranica, Tarasovci. The answer I received from the chairman of the committee is, in principle, I agree with him: How can money be allocated if the government does not finance these programs today? But I wanted to ask the head of the committee the following question: How could I not have figured out when a powerful PIC-152 organization in the Novoseltsky region in charge of the watershed had developed a technique? It takes out all the better techniques and it's transferred to another structure. At that time, a team of very many experts lost their jobs for hundreds of years. And how is it that the leadership of a four-million-dollar circuitry didn't find 230,000 to allocate to the settlements that are now in the Novoseltsky region so that the Prute River takes about 20-30 hectares of land annually, and all of that goes into the water. Now the question is, can the peasants soon literally find themselves in the Prut River? I refer once again to the Head of the State Committee: Honorable Vasil Andriyovich, send the commission back to the Cherniewec region, please deal with the situation that has arisen in the leadership of the district, return the technology to PMK-152, because this is what the collectives are waiting for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate address, a commission for the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, here four factions - two by two - require breaks according to the Rules. So I say, let's say that if you have something to do with what you're doing, make statements, and we'll keep working, because we've been doing this for an hour and a half. Yes, the faction of the People's Party and the Democratic Ukraine Group, please, who will be speaking? And please prepare for the Communist Party, Communists and Socialists. Who will act? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u28	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Statement by the MP of the People's Party: "The phenomenon of the Ukrainian "orange revolution," which won by singing, attracted the world to us as a civilized nation. The yellow-hot events of last fall forced many of us to rethink Bible philosophy against evil, violence, because violence generates violence. Today, dramatic events that have taken place in the center of the Ukrainian capital, in the Shevchenkov district council of Kiev, are forcing us to talk about this. The citizens of Ukraine had the opportunity to see in television broadcasts the massacre that the national electorate had done here. The personnel who recorded the moment when our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Bondarenko, who was protected by immunity, cut up the face of the district council deputy, the head of the faction of the People's Party in Shevchenkov district council, Sergio Andresyuk, not for the weak nervously. As a result, Andreszuk suffered serious trauma to the hospital. We deliberately focus, not on the causes of the conflict, but on how our fellow national MPs acted. We are confident that the fist should not be an argument in finding out the truth. This does not honor either the national MP or the Parliament. So today, we are able to ask: Who authorized Mr. Bondarenko to loose his hands and to exercise self - justice in violation of another person’s health? Who, rather than the people's protégé with a great record of democracy, know about the rule of law and the advantages of the moral and humanistic values of a democratic society? It is a shame that a person bearing the high name of a national MP does not remember that democracy as an instrument should use the power of argument rather than the argument of force. Undoubtedly, this act of a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Vladimir Bondarenko, will not add the image of either the faction or the team he presents to the entire Supreme Council. In addition, instead of the expected convergence of our factions on cooperation issues, we will have to simply find out for a long time. The faction of the People's Party demands that the faction "Our Ukraine", members of the Committee on Rules and Deputies of Ethics and publicly condemn the actions of Vladimir Bondarenko and become a member of the People's Party of the District Council's Civil Rights. Please consider this application to be an appeal to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u29	Please, Shulga Mikola Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u30	Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Two years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages, or Minority. On May 15, 2003, the Ratification Act was signed by the President of Ukraine. Such actions could be viewed as a step in the way of respect for human rights, ensuring the necessary conditions for the preservation and development of languages of national minorities. Despite the current order of transmission of ratified documents to the Depositary, however, Ukraine did not pass the Law on to the Council of Europe. Criticising Kuchma's failure to comply with the European Council, Yushchenko publicly declared that he would correct the situation and submit to the Council of Europe, among others, the Law on the Ratification of the European Language Charter. However, as time has shown, the new sovereignty merely speaks of its devotion to democratic values, the rule of law, and the observance of human rights. It's absolutely no different from the old authorities -- it's using double standards, political hypocrisy and lies tested in previous years. What is the state in which decisions are ignored by the higher legislature and the president of the country? This violates the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on International Contracts of Ukraine, and other applicable laws of Ukraine. How can we trust the superiors of the state who, at every turn, claim to be European values and actually ignore them, manipulate their obligations to international organizations? How can politicians who claim respect for culture, traditions, and languages of national minorities be trusted, and political fraud on the political scene, create artificial obstacles to the realization of human rights to the use of their own language. In connection with the statement, the faction of the Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine have expressed their strong protest over the deliberate delay of the executive power of transmission to the Council of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of Minorities. [[united]] We demand, first, an immediate meeting with the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, Mr. Rolf Ekeus, who is currently in Ukraine. And secondly, a weekly depository transfer to the Council of Europe of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Replica, Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine, microphone, please. His last name was on it. He's got a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u32	Thank you. I am deeply grateful for the attention I received in Kiev from the great kindnesses. I would like to point out that I, as well as the national MPs who came with me to the Shevchenk district council, were surprised to see that, in carrying out Ukraine’s obligations regarding the Charter on Local Self - Government and the Law on Self - Rule, the Shevchenkov Paradise was surrounded by over a hundred armed guards who did not let the national deputies, the Kiyevrada deputies, or the Paradise Hall. When we went in there, the microphone wasn't given to me, and I had to use the megaphone, because the head of the district government, who in the election created the smuggling center of dirty information against Yashchenk and the opposition, is still in charge there today, being supported by that faction that my colleague, who was only recently created there, was talking about. So when I spoke on the microphone and someone tried to shut my mouth with paper, as it did, I hesitated, not beat. And you don't have to do it. So let the court or investigation determine who acted as he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the Committee of Regulators. get lost and at least be human. If you say you're surrounded by law enforcement, let the court handle it. You do not have the right and the authority to make an assessment. And when you waver, do so so that people do not go to the hospital. And please, we need to show all of us what we're doing right before the law. Because we have the impression that some are more equal before the law and want to make a rematch. Behave yourself. Dear colleagues! Let's get to it. Calm down. I'm not protecting anyone, I just want people to be treated equally. I didn't call your name. Please announce for consideration the draft Law on the Order of the Forced Deprivation of Private Property Property Objects in the State. [[Nationalization]] We have two bills, honorary colleagues, 3709, 3709-2. Reporters of the Ukrainian National Deputies, drafters of the laws of Mikola Rudzikowski and Peter Simonenko. Such a rule is proposed, dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? I'll tell you what. For the rapporteurs, the honourable colleagues, up to 5 minutes each; then 3 minutes to answer, questions; from the committees to 5 minutes; discussion and decision-making to 20 minutes. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues! I would ask your permission not to take a break because we spent an hour and a half discussing the question of "different." No warning? What? By order of conduct? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I refer to you in connection with the regulations, because right in front of you behind the rostrum, and you have a slogan right in front of you: "The priest, like Kuchma, the saboteur." And so on. I ask that the slogan be removed because, according to the Rules, there is no right to hang anything. I think it's going to disrupt the normal situation when we discuss those legislative acts that we're currently planning. This is the first time. It's different. The image of the President, she's an insult to the President. I don't think she's attractive to anyone to insult an active president, especially when he can't answer. He doesn't see what's being hanged right now, and it's special for it to go on the air and so on. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to take steps to prevent regulatory violations. And the regulatory committee that is represented there is not responding to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u35	I would ask respectable colleagues, really, to stick to the rules of both the previous period and the present period and not to hang foreign slogans. I'd like that. That's how you can take that password off. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the subject of Mikolayovich Rudzikowski is invited to discuss the draft Law, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the need for the adoption of the Law is that the Constitution, article 41, states: Forcible alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds for social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the laws and conditions set out in the preceding full payment. We define the conditions for nationalization, which is to prevent or overcome the consequences of an extraordinary situation of a military nature, as well as an extraordinary situation of a technological, or natural nature, not below the regional level that has led to, or could lead to, human or material loss, endanger the lives and health of citizens. Nationalization takes place exclusively in the languages of the previous payment. This law is proposed to provide a basis for a legal settlement of nationalization issues, resulting from social necessity in certain critical situations. The decision is to nationalize an object only by voting by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The grounds are clearly set forth in the Law, the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, the consideration of the National Security Council, and the question to the Supreme Council for the vote. After a positive decision by the Supreme Council, an independent expert on the value of an object that is nationalized is being evaluated. It is the right of an entity that has jurisdiction over an individual subject to challenge the issue of assessment or any other matter in a court of law. This is followed by a prepaid budget payment, or it may be determined by the same new law. And only after the previous payment has been made does the object become state property. This law, on the one hand, guarantees owners and investors in the Ukrainian economy that objects will not be taken away by one or another authority without payment; on the other hand, it provides a real legal mechanism for the authorities to return to the state property of an object that they consider to be strategic for their economy. What may be the situation, and to what situation can this law be extended? For example, as it used to be, the floods in Zakarpat or at the Odessa area were large, and some of the electricity lines became completely out of place to provide the region. But this is a private property. Private owners don't have the money to restore this power grid quickly. Then he gathers, submits the Cabinet of Ministers proposals to the National Security Council. The National Security Council makes proposals to the Supreme Council, votes are taken, and then the private owner and the state settle the cost of the object that returns to it. is nationalized and priced. And so the object returns to state property. Dear colleagues, we certainly need to adopt a nationalization law that clearly states that for such reasons alone. And only under such conditions can nationalization take place. If we don't adopt any laws, nationalization will be decided by means of regulations, government regulations or decisions, government or president orders, but it won't have a legal basis, and it will lead to chaos in the investment market of Ukraine. You know that investments actually stopped in the Ukrainian economy. No one puts in because there is instability. The adoption of this law will guarantee for the owners that they will not be deprived of their illegal property. On the other hand, the State will be given the mechanism to return objects to the State’s control and public interest if necessary. Thank you. Please, if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the reporter gave a report. If you have any questions, please write it down. Three minutes to ask. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question. Then Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev Mr. Reporter, the problem of reprivatization arose because of suspicion or direct evidence that privatization was actually conducted not on competitive grounds, but on the basis of some contracts that indicate that some buyers could have put several times as much money into the state's budget, but the purchase was obtained by those who paid for much less. This is the basis of this process. Among other things, it continues now. This conflict in the Shevchenkov District Council, where 95 objects were privatized, was for representatives, including the party that called itself here. So 95 objects without any competitive basis. This was at the heart of the conflict. This was stolen from 95 objects in China. The gastronomy of several pieces, vegetable shops, is only 13,000 square feet [13,000 sq m]. Therefore, if such privatization were to take place in Kiev, they would also return to it. So I ask you to find out if there was such a situation.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovich, I fully agree with you that there are two elements: firstly, this is "admission", the theft of state property in violation of legislation, and here must be the laws in force that are now in force. It must be a court in relation to objects that are illegally privatized, and they must return to state ownership, and those who have taken part in such decisions should be brought to criminal responsibility both at the district level and at the level of state property and regional funds. This is another matter that has been privatized within the framework of legislation. So we shouldn't put everything that's been privatized in the last 10 years, that it's been privatized illegally, no! It was an illegal legislative base, and some objects were privatized under the law. But they are strategic for the interests of the state, and they have to come back into the hands of the state within the framework of legislation, "not in an absolute sense." If the authorities once acted “unlimitedly, ” we must now ensure that the state acquires ownership rights over certain objects or other objects. Where there is corruption, where there is theft, where there is robbery, there must be a criminal code and a criminal charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u40	Yes, Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u41	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I have two questions if you can answer them. First: Have you known the case of the last 13 or 14 years to nationalize any facilities in Ukraine? And secondly, how do you think that the specialist who deals with these issues has the degree of privatization that we have as far or as close to the Bolivian version as Bolivia, Bolivia, Bolivia, Bolivia? So in Bolivia today, you know, nationalization is not going through the adoption of laws, of course, but people want to nationalize. Is that how close this level of privatization is to today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u42	Dear Mikhail Kuzmovich! You see, the situation that we now have in the privatization and property market is that almost 80 percent of the objects in Ukraine are already privatized. Only 20 percent, in principle, of strategic objects currently owned by the state. In general, energy, some metallurgy, and chemistry. And these objects need to be secured by law in state ownership. Some transport objects. But there are some objects that have been cleaned up and taken into custody in violation of legislation. There are objects without which the state cannot solve its strategic issues in crisis situations. And so if there's a crisis situation, the state needs a tool like that. We don't have to, you know, undermine trust in the state, just as we cancelled accounts in the bank, so we shouldn't act on private property, because if we do it in terms of the owner, for example, the dairy plant or the owner of another enterprise, where does the guarantee to the citizen that tomorrow they won't come and start taking his house with his property? As we adopt this law, this mechanism guarantees everyone and, on the other hand, gives the instrument to return to the State if necessary in a critical situation one or more subjects under the control of the State. We do. This is about nationalization according to legislation. But, really, there's a lot more work to be done now. We have state-owned objects -- we control 50 plus one share, and the state doesn't run the business. And no one's taking the initiative to take control of this business, the MPs have passed the law -- he's on the boards, no one from the government has come and said, "The energy crisis, let's control the enterprise." Perhaps there are other interests. So there are many problems, but they need to be solved within the framework of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited to support the draft law. This is 3709-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that at the time of gaining independence, Ukraine was one of the tens of the most developed countries in the world. According to the authorities of foreign analysts, it had the most powerful potential in post - Soviet space and one of the best in Europe, but unfortunately, this potential has not been used for nothing, and it has been criminally lost before. The so-called reformers used, first and foremost, the confidence of the population, the imperfections of the legislative base, and the thieves, through inflation, certification, vouchers, artificial bankruptcy, committed an affair of the millennium: they illegally stole state property -- the general acquisition of our people. As a result, 90 percent of the country’s national, state - owned property was in the grip of so - called new Ukrainians, who account for no more than one and a half percent of the population. They usurped 85 percent of the major production funds, producing more than 70 percent of industrial potential. I'd like to propose a few conclusions, Your Honor. The first conclusion: Privatization has not led to any improvement in the efficiency of property use, nor to a higher standard of living, and more than that, the mechanism for the collapse of Ukraine's truly powerful and stable economy has been launched, which has now essentially become a semicolonial status and has become the largest third-world country in the world. So there's a systemic crisis in the state, and this systemic crisis is destroying economic and political independence. The second conclusion is that the newly discovered owners of factories, newspapers, steamboats are unable to solve any problems and have done no good for the people. The third conclusion is that this criminal state policy of the ruling regime, which is being implemented today by the government of nationalists and socialists, has led to the halting of thousands of factories and factories, the closure of mines, the destruction of the village, the material and technical base of its amortization resource of 75 to 80 percent, and the country is approaching full deindustrialization in general. The fourth conclusion. As a result, in Ukraine, power and ownership of crime are usurped and held in the hands of several rich and influential people and families who are grouped into several sectoral and regional clans. We have a closed circle of "whose authority is the property and whose property is the authority." At the same time, politics was criminalized, and crime was politicized. This has also led to the fact that the vast majority of the population of 90 percent are outside the poverty line. And the difference in income between these categories of citizens is 30 to 40 times. The conclusion is fifth and foremost. The continuation of such a criminal political and socio-economic course will destroy, in fact, the principle of the civilized existence of the Ukrainian people and of the Ukrainian State, the destruction of the foundation of national security. As a result of the above, we are Communists, and also, taking into account the main task of getting out of a deep political and socio-economic crisis and proposing to adopt a law on the subject. Nationalization and based on it to create a nation-wide, state-wide, indivisible equity fund. We propose nationalization of the manufacturing sector, which is strategically important and requires substantial and long-term investment, which will give tangible returns to the state and to the budget. At the same time, nationalization is suggested not to be confused with reprisals, during which property moves from one oligarch to another. Unfortunately, the problem of nationalization is not developed by legislation, and in my opinion, the need for nationalization comes out of the following. Reason 1. It's illegal to assign property to private individuals. The second reason is the illegal, unfair and illegal concentration of property rights on the basis of industry. The third reason is the complete collapse of agricultural production in Ukraine in recent years as a result of so-called radical market reforms, with dozens of the most important production indicators in Ukraine, has now dropped to 20, 30, 60 and 70 years. The fourth reason. This is the pervasive poverty and even the poverty of the vast majority of the population. The fifth reason is the problem of guaranteeing prospects and development, the ability to ensure their political and economic independence. The sixth reason. It's a massive outflow of capital. Seven. This is the concentration and mobilization of our nation's resources to address the important strategic challenges of the state's development. So this law needs to be passed, and by law, we need to create a state-wide indivisible fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Is there a question for Peter Mikolaiovich? Please sign up. Put your name on the board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u46	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! I'm asking you a question. How do you feel about privatization taking place, not on competitive grounds, but on contractual grounds, and who makes these deals at a table or under a table, in a room or outside? Like what? The same Shevchenkiv Paradise exhibits 95 sites in the center of Kiev, including several gastronomy rooms, vegetable shops, turning them all into Las Vegas, into a game house, for entertainment. There is a man who was officially Mr. Yavorowski accused of bribery, Mr. Androsyuk, who belongs to the People's Party, as the speaker told us today. Yavorowski turned to Omelchenk and said that there was a direct bribe, get rid of whom and how they viewed privatization. That is why no object was in the contest, why no object was sold out of the auction but only on a contractual basis. How do you view it, should you do it in this way, or should you still be able to buy these objects on competitive grounds?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u47	Based on my position, which is practically the basis of the law, and that makes us different from that of the people's MP who had previously reported on the draft law before me. We're starting with this: please have someone's capital, you want to develop the services, create new jobs -- invest and expand our production. But unfortunately, the consequences of privatization give me these reasons to state: privatization in Ukraine has generally been a criminal process because there has not been a strategy for protecting national public interests, based on the need to give people jobs, pay, remind, dress, finance social programs today, ensure a normal level of pensions, regulate prices in the internal market, control everything that should be able to ensure that our citizens' purchasing power is improved. That is, all that was done in the interests of certain clans closest to an official, both in the days of Kuchma and in the days of Yushchenko. Because those who work in the government today, in the days of Kuchma, created all these, let's say, riches in paws or mattresses, for themselves. At times, Kuchmi, along with those working in the Yushchenko Government today, was illegally selling Oblenergo, a memorandum was signed with the International Monetary Fund, which practically closed the mines on Donbassa and destroyed the energy independence of our nation. As a result of these efforts, oil refineries were sold to all those working in the government today. And today they're talking about a gas crisis. Oil refineries were sold at a time when it was convenient, getting bribes today, so let's say, run your hand into the state treasury, get rich in person, and here today, I'm sorry, they're crying out for protection of national interests. That's why we're building a legislative base to bring back to the people of Ukraine a state-wide, Sunday-day property that will protect and modern, so let's say generations, and future generations of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u48	Yes. Time's up. What's wrong, no? Please, Peter Yeshenko. Well, please, Eshchenka, I'm telling you, but the time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u49	Fucking Communist faction. Peter Mikolaiovich, I represent the Cherkas region. And the voters in the Chercas region support the faction's efforts to enact this law, which is very important. And he must be accepted by the Supreme Council. In Churchill, out of 28 sugar factories, virtually all were destroyed, there were units left. The question was raised correctly on the archetype. I made a parliamentary inquiry about the Cherkas Oblenergo, who wanted to bankrupt and practically bought it for nothing. Peter Mikolaiovich, asked by the voters, would this law still allow the sugar industry to be revived in Cherkashina? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u50	I can say yes, it will give us the opportunity to make the following decisions on the validation of the principles of domestic and foreign policy in Ukraine, as required by the Supreme Council, by which we will define such basic industries, I no longer speak of coal, metallurgy, engineering, military industry, shipbuilding, chemical and sugar industries, because it is our wealth national. We made about 6 million tons of sugar. We developed agricultural machinery. It was a special sector that required the training of professionals, specialists, the development of whole regions, the construction of social infrastructure, people living better in the countryside: kindergartens, jobs, and heating. The new infrastructure was created in the countryside and in the towns where the sugar industry was developing. We were proud that this sugar industry was filling both the internal market and the outside. It allowed prices to be controlled in the internal market. I'm sorry, but who today, on what grounds does the price of sugar go up to $5? Why this happened again to our citizens, three skins tore from people, and only a single pile to privatize is being enriched. And I would like the same Mr. Poshenko, after he finally had the power of a national deputy, to answer how he, as Head of the National Security Council today, defends national interests, including in this matter, where he owns. And it is through his efforts that all of this is happening today that this sector is being destroyed. I am outraged by this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and support the concerns of your voters. Today, half the sugar factories in Ukraine were cut to pieces, they were stopped, businesses were not working, people were unemployed. But once again, I would like to emphasize, our law provides for a solution not to the temporary question of how my predecessor proposed a practical law for reprivatization, but the fundamental issue is to create a state-wide ownership fund, and thus to work out the national interests of the state. If Santa's shipbuilding sector holds. This is the development of today, and machine-building, science, industry science, is the creation of a trading fleet of our military. I'm talking to the ones who're giving me a hard time right now. Ukraine today has no military ship to protect our national interests. That's what we need to come up with when I'm trying to offer support for this very serious principled issue: the preservation of our nation's sovereignty and the independence of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u51	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Now from the committee Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. Vladimir Demyohin. Please be the first deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee. And then Stanislaw Ivanovich. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. You can see the sharp disputes about the term itself. Whether we need a sense of nationalization or not. Reprivatization, nationalization. These two bills, which we are considering today, are of paramount importance to the economic policy of the State. Why? Because it's the most serious element. If we are to imply regulatory policies on the part of the State on critical industries, it must manifest itself in something. They buried the entire structure. How to Influence? Not at all. Today we can only do so through nationalization, i.e. the redemption of shipbuilding plants into State ownership and influence through government orders or through public policy. We don't have that kind of mechanism today. And here are the two bills that we are considering today, which are dedicated to this particular topic. We have considered them on the committee, and the Committee recommends that both bills be adopted as a basis and that our committee prepare a single bill to take into account the rationalities of both bills, the comments of the scientific and expert management, which are very substantial. If you start with the main thing, what's a return to government property? It's nationalization, it's called nationalization. Under what conditions should it be implemented? The assessment of the ransom should therefore include resources in the State budget. What is the public need for nationalization? If we are all with you, members of society, taxpayers, then the public need is to improve our well-being. If there is no industry, or if we cannot finally have our own fleet, restore it, then State intervention is necessary. It's not just our patriotism, it's not just pride that we're going to have this fleet, it's ultimately our gross product, it's our welfare. And that, in my view, is what we need to prescribe in the law that we are enlarging, and what is a public need for the process of nationalization? In conclusion, his legitimacy was an essential point in the decision-making process. Of course, it's probably the Supreme Council. And compensation for either damage or payment, for example, for the same intellectual property to owners of a nationalized facility. In conclusion, I would like to support the decision on the basis of both bills and to entrust the Committee with the preparation of a single bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u53	Yes, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Property and Investment, please. Management of the national economy, property and investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I want to address everyone in this room, so I think that most, if not 100 percent of the people's deputies today, are alone in the fact that the existing state of illegality or non-recognizance of the legitimacy of the property status of those or other enterprises that have dominated Ukraine since January 2005, it can no longer be tolerated. Because what is being done today by the new power under the leadership of the President and under the leadership of the Prime Minister, even though they're pulling in different directions, is actually, but he's pursuing one goal -- redistribution of property today, and if you look at it more deeply, even though you don't want to talk about it, it's revenge and settlement with those owners who have become disagreeable with the new government. As you can see, all the time, the same names are the same, and there's always a situation that reminds us of who ever read the history of ancient Rome that Carthage should be destroyed. That's the main goal. What will the Ukrainian people gain from this? Nothing. Because yesterday, President Yushchenko, he's already scared that there are reproaches and questions about the investment climate in Ukraine. He promised, now, to Czech investors or Czech companies, he promised to open up, practically, what was before and beyond privatization, such as, say, the Odessa import plant, is the pearl of our industry today, not just the industry, but the industry as a whole. Or he promised to sell or allow to sell the Harkowsky turbot, which is now in an indefinite status, such as, by the way, the Lugansk Hemp. Therefore, when considering the law proposed by Simonenko-Syrenko, the National Deputies Simonenko, Sirenk and Tkachenko, the committee came out of that and in most cases concluded that such a law was necessary. Nationalized enterprises must be involved. The experience of the last century, in particular, has been evident in the last ten years: Great Britain has nationalized enterprises, France has nationalized enterprises, it has to adopt such a law. And we would ask you to join in with this thought -- and support the law that was passed by the national MP Simonenko and his colleagues -- to adopt it in the first place. Those observations, which are from the Science and Experimental Authority, can be taken into account and corrected in the second edition. As far as combining the two bills is concerned, it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u55	Honorable colleagues, reports and co-reports have been made. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the presentation from the rostrum. We have 11 national deputies. 20 minutes, as we agreed, for discussion. Vladimir Timofiovich Puzakov, Communist faction Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The adoption of the bill requires regulating the enforcement of private property objects for the benefit of the State for reasons of social need, namely, providing for the protection, economic, technical, and strategic needs of the State. I want to believe that it will. But desire and reality are different concepts, for the President himself has discussed the summary of the privatization of 30 enterprises and the Prime Minister has three thousand. So where is the true figure? One in common with the President and the Prime Minister, and now with the socialists: not nationalization, but reprivatization. Probably because nationalization is a return to state property, and reprivatization is a transfer of enterprises into new hands. And of course, these new hands will be from the President and the Prime Minister’s team, and for them it will not be scary and will only benefit them, not the state. Surprisingly, the President’s statement that 95 - 98 percent of the facilities were privatized in accordance with the law, that is, calmly, things went smoothly, except for a few cases. All that's left is to fix it, and probably with the help of the socialists, these few cases -- and it's all going to be on the air. We'll live with honesty, not criminal capitalism. But let's not be naive. To believe in the legality of privatization, a witness to this is today's privatized overrun of Ukraine. It's not even legal or illegal to privatize, it's different laws, and as we see today, it's a matter of how much privatization suits the interests of the State, the interests of most of the working people, and what it has brought to the Ukrainian people. Let's end up knowingly deceiving the people that privatization is in itself good, but in practice, it has been corrupted by unbreakable people. Who, then, are the unwitting people? We need to be honest with the people. Or the guarantee that there will be no further privatization of such people. Thus, nationalization must be fully nationalized, and it must not take place in an orderly manner. A good expert assessment of the value of a nationalization object, as representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine have repeatedly talked about at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u57	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is invited to the performance, the "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready right away. Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues, please. Yes, please, dear colleagues, calm down! Do not interrupt the work of the Supreme Council! Yuri Anatolyevich, please speak!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm asking them to do the incompetence after my performance! I can't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u59	Please. Dear colleagues! Please. What? He's speaking, he has the right to speak. Please. Yuri Anatolyovich, let's keep working. I asked. Yuri Anatolyovich, either keep speaking, or I'll give my word to another man. Please, calm down. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, what can I do? Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Basil Nadrag, please step out of the area. Vassil Nadrag, come in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Well, the respected TVs, the respected colleagues, you and I are seeing a continuation of the political show. Returning to the law as the Rules implies, I would like to say that, of course, all the past fourteen years that we have heard constantly that privatization will enable us to divorce economically, in fact today, have remained illusions. Why? Because in all civilized countries, everywhere and in all, with the right to privatization, the State also had the right to nationalization. It's like two mandatory things when we talk about the need to establish civilized rules of economic interaction. The only thing I would like to say to the authors and what to focus on is that the legislation must first and foremost address the issue of a decision on nationalization, in a public and public manner, not in the offices, but in the same Supreme Council, decisions on nationalization should be taken. Next moment. A mechanism should be established to ensure that the expert evaluation of nationalized enterprises and the amount of compensation for them should also be clear and publicly determined. For such an area for corruption, as the definition of value and return from the budget, is difficult to imagine. Last but not least, deeply convinced that when we talk to you about the need to establish a nationalization mechanism, we must clearly understand that, by empowering the State Property Fund to implement the decisions taken, we must know that the State Property Fund will also operate under the relevant Act, not at all, as we do today. I therefore believe that, in parallel with these laws, we must adopt a separate Act, as soon as possible, on the Fund of State Property, which will lead to the relevant public property, and, if accurate, State control over how and what it will do on the nationalization of enterprises. And last of all, there are a number of disadvantages that, in my view, are related to the fact that economic terminology has not been correctly spelled out. I think that in this Act we must move away from the political dimension and take advantage of the economic interest of society and, accordingly, the economic levers of the State in terms of economic order. I think that's what I and the People's Party agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u61	Yuri Anatolyevich, please speak. Step forward, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u62	Don't let them get in my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you. Mikhail Vasilovich Kosov. Well, let's not interrupt Parliament's work. Sergey Zizko, please turn on the microphone. Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich, either speak, or I'll put a question to the vote. I want to, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I very much respect you, please don't look for a reason for us to discredit the Supreme Council definitively.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u64	Dear People's Deputies, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will remind you of the need to comply with the regulations is the first. And second, specifically with regard to this Law, before me the Constitution, it is also before you when you take such acts. The Constitution establishes that the compulsory alienation of private property objects can be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis of the order established by law and provided that their value is previously and fully compensated. Forced compensation for the alienation of such objects. Full compensation for their costs is allowed only in terms of wartime or extraordinary time. We have two laws. One bill was introduced by the MP Rudzikowski, another by the authors, on behalf of the authors by the national deputy Simonenko. There's a committee's opinion. In my opinion, having studied all the observations and the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and having studied the texts of the bills themselves, I see real advantages in the bill presented here by Mikola Rudzkowski. With what? It clearly states that, and these laws are different in that the purpose of nationalization is to provide for defensive, economic, organizational, technical and other strategic needs of the State and society when preventing or overcoming the consequences of extreme situations of a military nature, as well as the extraordinary situations of a technological and other or natural nature below the regional level. To this bill is the least noticeable. So I'm going to ask you to support the Rudzkowski bill. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to believe that, as this is now being insulted by the President, if he can't respond to this, there has not been so much false information now that has been distributed to a member of our faction, Peter Prashenko. I want to tell you why. I mean, for those of you who let this happen. He kept 40,000 jobs in the Winnitsk region. 40,000 jobs. And I'd like to make that clear. And when we say that we cut into metal scraps, let's talk about who cut specifically. And we, the Party of Protectors of the Motherland, clearly called who cut when, what objects. Why there are only half of the 190 sugar factories mentioned. Thus, I would ask that today's political struggle not go beyond normal limits. I would ask you not to let the political struggle close your eyes and let us see each other and hear each other under the slogans of this fight. I will vote in favour of the first bill, which I call upon you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u65	Sergey Žizko, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the performance. After the performances. Whose name was it? Well, please, Sergey Zizko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u66	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Your honor, your head, Your Honor. The bill provides for the determination of the order of forced alienation of private property belonging to the State on grounds of social necessity, that is, the procedure provided for in article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of such a law is by no means the beginning of an invasion of private property, as could be assumed by reading only the name. The findings of the Scientific and Expert Office contain a number of substantive observations to this bill, which should be taken into account. I also made comments when I was familiar with him. First, article 5 states that the decision on nationalization is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of a special law that should already contain the amount of compensation for the value of the nationalized property of its owner. Thus, at the time of adoption of the decision on nationalization, an independent assessor should already be evaluated for ownership of the nationalization object in accordance with Article 7. On what grounds, though, an independent evaluator begins work on an asset valuation if the decision on nationalization does not yet exist. It is also unclear who and on what grounds the work of an independent evaluator should be paid. Secondly, most articles of the bill are based on the assumption that there is only one owner of the nationalization object. But such a situation is rather an exception, not a rule. In privatizing the vast majority of businesses, they became stockholders, owners of a certain part of the shares became members of the labour force and managers, that is, individuals. In the process of redistributing ownership to the group of coowners, domestic and foreign investors were involved, including legal, natural persons, and this circle of coowners could significantly change over time. We can imagine a hepatetic situation: some John Smith from Idaho, taking a liking to the orange revolution in the case of a Paul the Quickman, bought a package of shares of a Ukrainian enterprise that he knew was fantastically profitable by American standards. Not until a year later, when he's in the sweet expectation of dividends, he gets a very expensive official report that this company is nationalized, and for a proper package he has the right to get ten less than he did when he was shopping. It is not difficult to imagine the reaction of such an investor and its consequences for the international image of Ukraine. So under actual circumstances, the process of nationalization can become much more complicated and, I would say, more dramatic than the articles of the bill, which I think requires further elaboration and re-examination in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u67	Vladimir Novak, a Communist faction, is invited to speak. And Eugene Gorenik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u68	The Communist Party faction, Vladimir Novak. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, voters! I believe that the issue of such a law has matured a long time ago. Let us be frank: Privatization in Ukraine has already learned to do both by law and by law and by law and by no means. Both the state and the people were robbed. Property that was once common property because it was created by working together for generations of Soviet people suddenly became someone’s private property. It is interesting, though, that the factory was still in business at night, and it is private by morning. Many such examples can be cited. And the Lip auctions, and the fictitious sales contracts, and the stock frauds, which resulted in the control packets moving from hand to hand. All of this was sanctified by law. Wherever you throw it, it turns out that either you've privatized it, or you've stolen it by law, and you can't take it back to state property, because, you see, there's no law to take it away. That is why this project is of great importance. It defines "nationalization" as the prerogative of the State and the people to return private property objects to the exclusive property of the State and society. I'm more impressed with Project 3709-2. The authors suggest that the legal reforms and methods of nationalization, its purpose, and its foundations be defined by law. The bill also deals with the issue of carrying out an assessment of property that is nationalized. Of course, it's very important that nationalization is conducted strictly within the framework of the law, because those who stand in power will be able to use the law on nationalization as an effective weapon against the dissidents, which, in principle, is being done now. To this end, the authors propose the creation of a special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on nationalization issues composed of representatives from all officially registered factions, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the labour team. Such a commission will be able to prepare and monitor nationalization programmes, nationalization conclusions, and other recommendations. We all admit that very many mistakes have been made during privatization, and they need to be corrected on legal grounds. The transfer of property is not lawful, which means that in one’s interests it can lead to disastrous consequences in society. That's why I think this law, I mean the law passed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, is extremely important. And with my colleagues, I will vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u69	Eugene Gorenik, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u70	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! We are dealing with a rather difficult question and an issue. And on that point, I would like to say that our President has quite interesting advisers. One of them, Mr. Paschaver publicly in the press, claims that a corrupt society has a chance to become rich and that what does not respect property will never become rich. It's all over my head. Perhaps this counselor will give an example of a corrupt state that would become rich. Perhaps in Latin America, Russia, or African countries, or could Ukraine of the Kuchma era become rich? For some reason, the president is afraid that investors won't come if the property isn't guaranteed. There is no question: property must be guaranteed, including state property. And on the other hand, it has to be legal. The practice of many countries has shown that neither government nor private property is a panacea, especially in the areas of mass production. One and the other can be both successful and failureary, depending on management. And the function of the state must be to regulate their ratio. And that's what the bill that's proposed is more loyal to the bill. We know a lot of examples of wild privatization being done solely for the purpose of stripping or destroying competitors, including in my hometown the Carpathnaftomas factory, which had more than two and a half thousand workers, privatized by a foreign, Russian, investor, just to sell machines with numerical, software management at the price of scrap metal. If we delay adopting such a law, we are able to wait for so many of these enterprises to be destroyed. That is why I think it is possible to accept Rudzkowski's bill as a basis for its social necessity. At the same time, another bill is actually a repetition of the actions of Matron Zeleznyakov, who is tired of waiting and wants to repeat everything from the beginning when inefficient state ownership has led to the collapse of a great state. There are, of course, claims about the bill proposed by Mikola Rudzkowski. In fact, this is a project on the nationalization of property in Ukraine, causing concern about the secretion of budgetary relations in reprivatisation and other moments. So what I'm saying is, either take Rudzkowski's project as a basis, or he and the Cabinet of Ministers, who has some proposals for nationalization of property, develop an appropriate project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the procedure is when we discuss matters. Now it's only with motive that we can speak, dear colleagues. Well, from the motives, please write it down very much, please. Well, that was for the show. With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Yeah, they're signing up right now. Yuri Carmazin, please. Three minutes later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is clear that the discussion shows that the first draft of Rudzikowski should be adopted as a basis for the first reading. And some are confused that this could be a violation of the Constitution. I'd like everyone to read the Constitution. What is said to be unfair privatization and so forth is, unfortunately, that the government is now not taking normal steps, announcing 3,000 objects, 29 objects. Not 3,000 and not 29! Maybe it's better to do that, so that we don't confuse one law with another, we pass this law, and then we're going to adopt the law that we're currently drafting, about assessing all of the objects, because all of Ukraine's privatization is done outside the law. All the privatization was done with the breach of ratings, but yesterday the same people were yelling that no foreign experts could be involved. All experts can be involved if this is for the benefit of the state. So let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u73	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u74	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Please give the word to my colleague, Mr. Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u75	Sergei Gmira's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Two questions about that little incident we just watched. First. How does the Rules prohibit the posting of posters with the inscription "Jushtenko as well as Kuchma as saboteur of the European Charter of Regional Languages"? Second question. How can a simple statement of facts be an insult? This is the fact that Yushchenko, like Kuchma, does not deposit this vital document with the Council of Europe, in violation of Ukraine's obligation. And it's hard to argue with the fact. And on the question of trying to protect Mr. Poshenko. Dusty doesn't need protection. In violation of the Constitution, he is a member and cannot speak here. The fact that he is a deputy, thereby violating Ukraine's national security, allows him to speak here. He doesn't work here getting money.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u77	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u78	Thank you. First of all, I would like, of course, to go back to the subject of our discussion, because the only way to talk about the European Charter of Languages is if the Ukrainian language is going to sound at least sometimes, and from the media, including. So this is a different question. Still, back to the subject of discussion. The Nationalization Act, of course, is interesting, and it would be worth reviewing all those privatization projects that have taken place, and how many have they been in violation of the law. Once again, however, it is necessary to see that the child is not thrown out of the bowl with water, since it is necessary to study carefully and carefully the investors who have invested in it. Because let's not forget that there are enough people who are willing to invest money and even make money without looking at the huge bribes that Kuchma and the company demanded, and not forgetting how and who voted in this room, for example, for sugar quotas, how sugar industry was destroyed here. That's why those who are protecting the language charter now, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Now the final word is in one minute Rudzikowski and Simonenko, and the committee head, the committee's position. Please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to think about why I'm proposing such a law. Look, for example, if there is maple cheese, there is an object that can, say, consume all of Western Ukraine and half of Europe. If it had been privatized according to legislation, what should be done in this situation if the owner does not have sufficient funds to support the object in its proper condition and there are no chemical discards? At a time when, after examining the situation, the government refers to the National Security Council, with the President in charge of analysing the situation, taking the initiative to the Supreme Council, national deputies, as representatives, decide that the object should be nationalized, that funds are allocated, that they are returned to state property, and that they come from the real property of the object. And we provide security for the entire territory. Tell me: What is wrong with correcting the Law? Let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u81	Yes. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u82	My fellow Members, I would like once again to point out that we are Communists, who have put this bill into your consideration, we are proposing to society a peaceful civil agreement regarding the solution of the most painful problems facing Ukraine today. In our view, it allows us to move on to a peaceful, nonviolent way of solving all the problems that primarily affect the destruction of our State’s economic independence. In my opinion, if we do not now adopt this law, our people are entitled, on the basis of a declaration of human rights, to return to themselves what belongs to the people of Ukraine. What does this Law decide? This Act primarily addresses the issue of combating corruption, combating the tints of the economy, contributing to the formation of a constant source of budgeting, and protecting small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u83	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, microphone, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u84	Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these two bills do not contradict each other at all. And these attempts from the rostrum from the place are artificially opposed to one law to the other, and I think they end up with the effort to make the law of pre-evaluation, and then we're going to turn around, and then we're going to vote. What is this call for? The law is constitutional, one and the other. They, one law can be considered to be a framework, another law that specifies the position of nationalization under specific circumstances. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support both of these bills in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Stephen Cloud. About what? Dear colleagues, enough motivation, please, the motives have already been recorded. I understand you're interested in one question, and there are two dozen here. Please, microphone, the last cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u86	Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the drafters of the bill were actually entitled to a final word. And as for the committee representative, the committee heads, that's absolutely no longer the case. Because the opinion of the committee was expressed. And there's no need to go into agitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that according to the Rules, reporters or co-reporters have the right to a final word. Rudenko, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The point is that the argument that an enterprise works poorly in terms of ecology or other directions is that it needs to be legally nationalized, in my view, absurd. There are quite a number of regulatory, inspection, control functions in the hands of the State. If officials are to work effectively in these positions, there is no need for nationalization. So the political question, the question of the pharaoh, and nothing else. Thank you. We don't support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft shall be put to the vote. for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of the Forced Deprivation of Private Property Rights Objects in the State. [[Nationalization]] Registration number 3709, by Mikola Rudzkowski. [[12:36:23]] For 133 The decision is not taken. On factions, please, your colleagues: "Our Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 8, Block Timoshenko - 3, National Party - 0, SPU - 27, Ukrainian National Party - 21, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 8, Party of Industrialists - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 4. Yes, a draft Ukrainian law is put to the vote for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the return of property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which are owned by citizens and legal persons to the property of the Ukrainian people. [[Registration number 3702-9]] [[nationalization]] The authors are national deputies Simonenko, Tkachenko, Sirenko. Based on the base. [[12:37:28]] For a hundred and The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist - 56, "Ukraine" - 8, "Timoshenko - 1, National Party - 0, SPU - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 1, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 11, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 3. What? Please, according to the Rules, if this is not a problem. Thus, the proposal sounded like a rereading of the first reading. [[May I have your attention, please?]] I'm going to separate each law. A motion for re-reading the draft Law 3709 is put to the vote. [[author - Mikola Rudzikowski]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:38:33]] For-136 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It is submitted to the vote for re-reading the draft Ukrainian Law on the Return of Property of the Basic Areas of the National Economy, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the Ukrainian people. [[nationalization]] [[12:39:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1; Communist - 56; "Ukraine" - 5; Block Timoshenko - 2; People's Party - 0; SPU - 27; Ukrainian People's Party - 0; SDPU - 4; Democratic Ukraine - 0; "One Ukraine" - 10; Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0; "Deminitiates" - 1; non-fractional - 1. A draft Land Trade and Land Market Act is being announced for consideration. The rules are thus proposed, colleagues, committee: for the report, up to five minutes, answers to questions, three minutes, for the co-rapporteur, three minutes, and discussion and decision-making, it's written here, five minutes. I think we need 15 minutes, no less. What about the project? The committee has turned it down, but we have to look at it. Dear colleagues, this is a proposal from the Committee on Deviation, but we have to consider it, it requires the Rules. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies present. You have introduced a draft Ukrainian Land Trade Act and an auction activity on the land market submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill sets out the legal, economic and organisational principles for the conduct of land trade and for the conduct of professional auctioning activities on the land market. The standards of the bill are being extended and supplemented by the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Land Market Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading and is being prepared for second reading. Once again, I would like to emphasize to you that the bill expands and complements the provisions of the above-mentioned draft law codes and addresses issues relating to the powers of local self-government authorities and executive authorities on the conduct of land trades, the forms of land-trade objects and entities, such as land-trade items such as land rights, securities for land-based areas in order to create and operate land markets, the preparation of auctioneers, stock brokers, brokers, managers, auctioneers, and auctioneers for land trade services. In order to prepare land for sale at land trade, including the definition of land boundaries in kind, the approval of start-up prices, the production of technical passports, the publication of advertisements in the media in order to participate in and conduct trades, including electronic trading systems, the announcement of land trade results. Despite the fact that the agricultural land market is beginning to start in 2000, it provides for the completion of state and local budgets, particularly in 2001 - 98.7 million dollars, in 2002 - 158 million dollars, in 2003 - 311 million dollars, in 2004 - 614 million dollars at the expense of their sales. An analysis of price formation, which is confirmed, inter alia, and the latest checks, carried out in accordance with the orders of the President of Ukraine, indicated the need for the adoption of a law that would ensure the order of land trading on competitive grounds and at the same time increase the availability of funds to the budgets of all levels. According to previous estimates, the regulatory regulation of competition for the sale of non-agricultural land will provide additional revenues of over 400 million dollars a year. In addition, the transparent competitiveness of land sales will allow for additional investment in the economy of the country, the development of mortgage lending and the establishment of the market and the cost of land. Dear National Deputies! Please support this bill in the first reading and also take part in preparing proposals for the bill in preparation for its second reading. The Committee's comments on agrarian policy, land relations, are expected to be taken fully into account in further work. Thank you for your attention. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, is the committee in charge? Please sign up for three minutes. On the board. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. Then Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear reporter, you know, dozens and hundreds of cases have recently been exposed every day throughout Ukraine when the land was illegally distributed. And now we have to get this land back to the state. Imagine: If such a law had already been in force in Ukraine and the land that had been illegally distributed, it would have been sold and reselled, what would have been the course of restoration? And when your law is passed, do you foresee such ways when the land that has been passed over, then sold, reselled, and are new and new masters. I think that until we find the answer to these questions, and including the Crimea, it is imperative that there be no final selection of land for those people whose land is now going to be sold, I think such a law simply cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u93	Thank you. It is also the law’s law that prevents abuses, violations of existing legislation. It's about open auctions, creating a basis for auctions and competitions. If this law had worked earlier, the law would, of course, have the violations you're talking about, and they would have been investigated by the State Committee throughout Ukraine in 2004, and more than 80,000 of the 111,000 have been found to have committed offences. That's what this law is all about, and that's what it takes to get investment, to get credit, to form a transparent market mechanism. Without the formation of auctions, it is not possible to do so. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u94	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Anatoly Stepanovich, listening to your report and knowing the realities in the fields of agriculture and land privatization and so on. I understand that the government's path is to further purchase and sell the land. So the testimony, I'm sure, and the bill that you're presenting right now. He's probably in unison with this administrative and territorial reform prepared by Roman Immortal. The goal is to cover up the territory, speed up the time of taking the land into the community. Does your work seem strange? At Kuchma you distributed, then at Yushchenka you start to work and at the same time today you offer to sell. What will happen to Ukraine’s land and the state in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. Specialists who work in the land system have never managed land. According to this legislation, which is formed by the Supreme Council and you have taken an active part, it is a law on self-government, another package of laws, administered by land in rural councils, urban and rural self-government, outside the executive branch. In order to make it impossible, I repeat, to form abuse and to form a transparent, affordable market, the following rule is proposed in the draft law. From state and municipal property only through auctions, through competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u99	Vladimir Leschchenko. Ah, Sulkowski will report from the committee. Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, having considered and discussed the proposed bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which aims to create a land market in Ukraine by defining the legal, economic and organisational principles and mechanisms of land trade. [[Registration number 7488 from 16.05.2005]] The committee notes that the bill mainly duplicates the entire articles of the draft registration number 2600-1 of 22.03.2004, which was introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Sulkovski, Tomicz, Zubc, Kalinchuk, Glady and others, which was considered on 17 June 2004, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the draft law. Worked on taking into account the proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies and prepared for second reading. Today, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Adam Ivanovich, will meet with the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations to review the Law on the Earth Market at our meeting and will be sent to Parliament for consideration in a second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to use the constructive position of the bill in the second reading of the 2600-1 project on land market. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations requests you, honourable national deputies, and recommends that you reject the draft law. And so there is a request to Anatolia Stepanovich Danilenko today that you also agree with the conclusions of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations and agree that this bill should be rejected. And we invite you today to take part in our committee meeting, and we'll take you into account, with you, there's only 10 provisions of the Land Market Act for second reading. And I think that's going to be a compromise and that's true. And so I call on the honourable people's deputies on behalf of the committee not to support this bill, and it just needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u101	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we discuss it? Have a seat, please. Please highlight the names of the speakers on the table. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, get ready for Alexandrovsky. Have a seat. Ask him a question. Today, you will ask a question. I make a remark to a national MP who does not know the Ukrainian language, who uses Russian profanity. Please sign up for a question, three minutes. Yeah, three minutes, Tkalenko, Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u102	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine" faction. The following is the question: In many villages of urban type and villages, it was not intended to leave what was provided for by law, pasture for livestock. Which today leads to very serious complaints from the population. In particular, this is a village of a city-type Grand Alexander of the Herson region. How do you see the solution, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u103	Thank you. I want to tell you that I'm very good at it, I'll be honest with you, and I was the first one in the East Ukraine to rock the farm. And I'm going to say frankly, where there were farmers, where there were local self-government authorities in their seats, who thought for their constituents, for their citizens, and who were fighting for the creation of a reserve and a reserve fund of land, and who didn't allow the lack of ownership, and they planned clearly that, according to the masters, it was all foresight -- there people wouldn't be needing and looking for pasture. Where there were no-farmers, where they did not think about it, the stock of land that was provided for by law and was set aside was distributed, so it is clear that today the situation in certain local rural councils is hopeless. So I think that in this case we need to seriously go back to land inventory, by which decisions right or wrong on the grounds of local self-governance this has caused all the damage to the reserve and the land reserve. And I think you can find a few more acres here to really help the locals solve this problem. So I suggest you, as a national deputy, to your colleague, make such an appeal to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, to our committee. We have to create a commission and send them to separate regions, check out these land reserves and reserve funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u104	Olga Hinzburg, please have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, Conotapian constituency, Communist Party faction I have a question for you, Your Honor. When these lands were distributed, they shared very unfairly. For example, those who were closer to the authorities were given smaller land, others were given land that was further and less fertile land. Today I read in your law or the law you propose. "The form of land trade, auctions or bids shall be determined by the owner of the land, unless otherwise provided by law. Earth trades can also be followed by a court decision." This is due to the fact that mortgage banks are now imposed on us. I understand that a man who takes a loan to a mortgage bank of this land, then puts this land on the market, and that a man in a village who doesn't know the laws doesn't know how to do it, a simple peasant man, doesn't know the price of the land, he just has such a mistrust of power, he puts this land out, that he can bargain for it, you tell me? I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. And I want to tell you that I'm not the author, I'm just reporting on behalf of the committee. That's why I'm up. I'm against this bill if you've listened well to what I've reported. It's different. I fully support you that the land dispossessed in Ukraine is unjust. When I personally, as the head of the farm, rocked my farm, I put up lists for a year, detailed them both at the shops, and on the streets, and so on, so that people would actually read and watch whether they were lost or not, whether they were fooled or not, that they would be without land. And so where we haven't taken advantage of the uncontrollable bodies of executive power, where we've started to think behind closed doors of dissipation, we see today that there are even more, there are such colognes and rural councils that up to half, 50 percent of the people needed land, they weren't given land. I support that, and I admit that the fact is in Ukraine. What to do today, I'll be honest with you. Where there is a reserve fund and a reserve of land in local self - government, there can be a return, the law allows those who have been deceived, land and pies to be considered and decided by local governments, even to prevent them from being allowed to join the courts. And you can also assign these people a bunch of pies, legally speaking, that's all going to happen. What about implementation, I'll tell you. I'm against the embezzlement and sale of land. I am the author of the Land Market Act. And that's why world statistics speak today. Tell me, at least one country, where more than one and a half percent of the land was sold? No more than two percent of the land is sold. And I believe that it will not be sold in Ukraine. But there are exceptions. Where there are lonely people left, grandparents who have worked 40-50 years in a farm without having children without having anyone to inherit the land, and that they don't have a right today, they don't need six hectares of land. What can they not sell these five acres today? I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone, when we report, to report the committee's decision. Let's move on to the bill. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. We made a deal with you for 15 minutes. Please come out of the rostrum, Yuri Carmazin. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the representative of the government to say that I have nothing to say to Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine. What's more, I really appreciate it and I love it, but this project, signed by the Prime Minister, has one interesting part. Article five, part four: “Sales of land by foreign nationals, foreign legal persons, joint ventures and enterprises with foreign investment in land markets for the purposes defined by the Earth Code shall be carried out by executive authorities or local self-government bodies on general grounds. " That's what I'm quoting. "If a foreign citizen, a foreign legal entity of a joint venture or a foreign investment firm is recognized as a foreign-trader, the contract shall be concluded with him upon agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council in accordance with the powers determined by law and in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet. If the Cabinet of Ministers refuses to sell to a foreign citizen, a foreign legal person, a joint venture or an enterprise with foreign land investments, the trade is considered to have not taken place." That is, in any case, a foreign citizen or a foreign legal person is to receive our Ukrainian land. I want to ask you, which state is this? So I'm grateful to the committee's representative right now for suggesting that this law be rejected -- first. Secondly, I remind the government that it's not the law they're proposing right now, the name of it -- the land trade and the auction work on the land market, and we passed the land market law. And this law is provided for in chapter 9, paragraph 4, of the Final Provisions of Ukraine’s New Earth Code. So this law, the positive thing that it has is that the details of how to conduct those tenders should be included, and this is the reaction that someone has set you up, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, someone has set you up. Who -- I don't know -- figure out who involved these foreigners, as the Prime Minister signed this -- it's a serious study to be done. There's enemies of the state sitting there somewhere. Let's figure out which one of them is there, who's signing these things? So it's very dangerous, it's already a threat to the security of the state. There is no such thing in any country of the world, and there will never be! So I am determined against giving the land to foreigners as proposed. This contradicts our Constitution, which contradicts common sense and the protection of Ukraine’s national interests. So I propose that this law be rejected and written protocolly "to take advantage of the provisions of Bill 7478 in the drafting of Project 2600-1 on the land market for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u109	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u110	Dear colleague! I've heard with interest a statement by the previous MP, Carmazin, and I think I have an answer to the question why Carmazin loves Julia Timoshenko. We adopted the Earth Code to the great misfortune of the people of Ukraine when Yushchenko was Prime Minister. Karmazin is now a member of the “Our Ukraine” faction and, of course, advocates the political positions that are being implemented today, including by the Government of Timoshenko. I call it the Timoshenko-Jushchenko government. I read the bill carefully, and I asked myself: Why does Yula Timoshenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine, submit this bill to the Supreme Council, which is indeed in contravention of the law already passed on to the Supreme Council on the land market? And here are the key words that answer that question. I remind you that article 1 of this Act states that the powers of the Supreme Council include the approval of a State programme for the privatization of land owned by the State. Open the Earth Code - it also describes the powers of the Supreme Council, the powers of the Government, the powers of local councils. And you won't find those words there. This means that the law that has been passed on to the Supreme Council is supposed to detail sales procedures, in fact, a completely different provision, a legal provision that has major implications: privatization of land, public property. We have just considered the bill on the nationalization of State ownership, and the Communist leader Peter Simonenko in this Chamber has explained very well and in detail, and I think that many present have agreed, although they have not voted in favour of this bill, that everything that has happened with the privatization of State property in Ukraine is criminal in nature, and not only because it has taken place in the shadows, but also tenders, as we know, and these tenders have not saved us from the fact that public property has been dissolved. And today, everyone in the room agrees that order is needed. I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to what is proposed here today, in the Hall, to the privatization of the individual under the previous law. At first, it was taken from the people, handed out by the money -- now offered by the people, repurchased by the budget, and again, I think they'll be handing out money again. The same is suggested of the earth today. That is why Karmazin loves Yulia Timoshenko: that the political power that is now in power, which was in force in 2000 and has been in motion with the Earth Code, continues to complete this process by bringing it to the privatization process before we have survived in industry. Today, people living in cities have lost their jobs, lost their jobs in factories and businesses, are now deprived of jobs and jobs in the village of those who have received so-called land rations, and tomorrow the people of Ukraine will lose the most basic wealth - the land of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u111	Eugene Gorenik. The faction of our Ukraine. Tamara Proscuratov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u112	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! I understand that this bill is highly critical and deserved because, in principle, the technology of its introduction by the government has somehow been misunderstood to me, but if such a bill is introduced and it is in advance inconsistent with the relevant committee, well what are the chances of it going through the Supreme Council? Obviously there are some nuances that were not agreed in advance and that needed to be reconciled and then discussed in this room. But it also has a fundamental meaning. I asked the other factions not to talk about the faction of our Ukraine, other factions of what we don't have. The "Our Ukraine" faction voted in favour of the moratorium on the privatization of commercial land and adheres to this principle. But look at how the land of non-agricultural production is being realized in the same Kiev, these are the slopes of Dniper, in other cities of Ukraine. In a shadowy way, without taking into account environmental protection, without any other legislation, and so on. I mean, there's healthy grain in this bill and it should be implemented. On the other hand, the committee representative rightly pointed out that there is a draft and second-reading bill on the market of land on the basis of which these points could be taken into account by the government and adopted a comprehensive bill. I believe that the Committee's comments are correct, and we should listen to it, that is, the bill proposed by the government to reject and propose to it those concepts and positions that are rational, to include on the second reading even today in the proposed bill. And the transfer of land to foreign citizens. I fully support what Comrade Carmazin said. We have a special arrangement for the sale of land to foreign legal persons, and it does not create any obstacles to the involvement of foreign investors. All we have to do is follow him properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u113	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Next is Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u114	The adoption and discussion of any Law on Earth is certainly important, but I cannot help but say that I have the commission of 352 families of Jubilee Gardening Society, which is located on the land of the Ternopil City Council, on how the existing laws on land are being implemented in the area. In 1966, a decision by the Ternopil City Council gave the railways of the Lviv Railways Department 24 hectares [24 ha] of land to establish a collective garden in the northern part of the city. Then, in 1985, the City Council of National Deputies decided to remove from the Jubilee Gardening Society the land. Then, of course, these people appealed to the courts to give them the right to use the land. It is worth noting that the decision to remove the land. were adopted in accordance with the requirements of the Earth Code, but, as the court established, they were all adopted in violation of land law. Thus, according to the 2001 Earth Code, all the unfulfilled decisions of the City Council have become powerless. The decision of the Economic Court of March 9, 2004 declared invalid the ruling of the executive committee of the Ternopil City Council. In 2004, the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil City Council of Lviv, the Court of Appeal, decided that the Court of Commerce of Ternopil would leave the area unchanged and the appeal without pleasure. Ukraine’s Supreme Court of the Complaint of the Ternopil City Council ruled that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine had been dismissed in violation of its review of the cassation procedure since 2004. And they are asked to stress that the vast majority of members of society are elderly, veterans of railway transport, protectors of the Fatherland. After the approval of the High Court of Commerce, the City Council was again asked to privatize the land, but only one bureaucrat decided to refuse it, even though the matter was to be considered at a city council meeting. Of course, members of this gardening cooperative addressed the President with a similar letter, but no response was received. The city council, as it addresses me, plans to take the land without paying for it, for planting and for building. And therefore, I emphasize that the court of the Ternopil district found that land privatization was provided for by law, but in the city of Ternopil, its vision of the Land Act. This letter was addressed to me by the voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u115	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u116	Dear Head, dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, while you were away, we're here a little, I've had a bit of a hard time with Adam Ivanovich, but we've had our differences here. But, indeed, the situation itself shows that such a question is relevant, and there was no need for Adam Ivanovich to make sure that we did not have the opportunity to ask questions that we had the right to ask, such as the national MPs. And now for the earth. Deeply convinced that any laws that open the gateways to the sale of land cannot be adopted in this room until we deal with what is happening to the land, both agricultural and non-agricultural. I want to say that we have already cheated nearly half of Ukraine's rural population without giving the land pies to those who were not members of the farm. We blocked the land of tens of thousands of Crimean Tatars that had been deported, who had been violently held back for nearly 45 years in places of exile and whose land is now being embalmed, and there is no piece of land there. I think when I think about what to do with those people who have already received and have legally received, including the landscaping, I don't think it's normal to think about what they say they have left alone, they don't have children, they don't have anyone to leave this land. And let them have the opportunity to sell it. I think it's not a good approach, it's not God's approach. You can't hold the ground, you can return it to the state. There are always people in the country, citizens who have no land but want to work on it. Thus, the State will know how to dispose of the land that will return to those who will not be able to sustain it. And to be very frank, it's about giving the law an opportunity to all those people who have power to break up, sorry for the word, Ukrainian land, and now they want to have a legal way of reselling it. Taking the money instead of the earth, and then the land will be used by new owners for the judgment they will have. So I urge all the people's deputies until we, in fact, find a normal way to restore the right of all citizens to the earth and to use this land, not to adopt laws that will fortify that injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u117	Well, we have a procedure, Your Honor, before we consider the matter. One second, now it's your esteemed colleagues. With the motives of John the Rabbit, Alexander Tkachenko, and then you're a replica, I remember, and then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u118	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to create a market for the land and we need proper legislation. But we have to ask the question, how do we gradually create this land market, or at one time? We're offered one moment. I think we should take it in a step. I think we should first create a land market for non-agricultural production and show that there is legislation, and we advocate the interests of our citizens. What is behind the need for this law? It's all about investment. Now, as we sell agricultural land, there will be investments. That's not true. Investments will come only to a state where there is political stability, where there are stable rules of economic play, but there is no principle. In fact, this bill is needed to legitimize current practice. The land was already being produced there, and it was being fenced in the midst of the masses. And the second is to launch a mechanism for the theft of Ukrainian land. The price of land today is unformed because of agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u119	Alexander Tkachenko, please microphone. I see. Just a minute. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I think it's an anti-State bill. I think Anatoly Stepanovich, you're an agrarian. If there was a Siberian country today, you were the first to go after such drafts in Siberia. That's the first one. It's different. The Constitution defines clearly the 13th article that the earth is a nation's property, not a Danielenka or someone else's. And the third. You can see how we were led into selling land. On the first stage, you don't laugh, Danilenko or Teryohin. In the first stage, the dissipation took place. On the second stage, let's go to the bayou. And the third step is sales. And the law on the price mechanism is? None. Who gave the right to sell land without the law on machinery?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u121	Mikhailo Melniczuk, then Sergey Drogunzov, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u122	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will not support the bill. We come from the fact that today a government commission is working to deal with what has been done with Ukrainian land in ten years. Not at all. I would have had such an offer if we had supported all the honourable national MPs here so we wouldn't have to look at any of the land laws until we figured out what was done in ten years with the Ukrainian land, who became owners, where it was torn apart, what we were doing with the land. It's one of the riches. It was Alexander Mikolaiovich who rightly said: Why do we not follow the Constitution? It's the people's right to decide how to use the land. That is why we will not vote in favour of the bill and invite all parliamentarians to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u123	Sergey Droguntz, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u124	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Our faction won't vote for this bill either. We're in solidarity here with the socialists and other MPs who support this same point of view. Earth is not just a huge lot of our people, it's a major asset. We have nothing more valuable than land. Today, no one knows who this land belongs to and what forms of farming are applied on this earth. We need to have this generalized data. But they're nowhere -- not on the committee, not on the staff, and so on. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to listen to this thesis, the last one not connected to the earth, or perhaps connected. We have very important committee meetings and parliamentary hearings on the same day at the same time. This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u125	We've got to move the committee meeting for 18 hours, and there won't be any problems. Please, Andrew School and we'll be clear. We've made decisions, we can't change anything, Parliament has voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I also want to point out that the faction will not vote in favour of this bill for a number of reasons: because we passed a similar bill on the first reading about a year ago. I think we should consider the proposed proposals in the bill and vote in the second reading on the bill that we have already supported. It's just out of respect for the session room, for the people's deputies, for the law and for everything else. So I'd like to emphasize separately that, you know, what's happening to the earth right now is just an extraordinary situation. We don't have a cadastral estimate of the land, we don't have any understanding of what we own and what we want to sell at auction. Now, the Cabinet of Ministers, Julia Tymoshenko has turned to scientists, to all those who are interested, know, understand, and want to help evaluate the land by going to the normative acts that will allow it to work with the land, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to stop this legacy that has spread to the Ukrainian lands. So I'm stressing that we need to support that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, there is no time. Please, Samuel, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! But I have a logical question: So who does Danielenko represent here? The Prime Minister’s faction tells us that they will not support this bill, a faction of socialists whose Minister of the Baranivian APC also says they will not support the bill. [[Right, I've already done things like this, so we can open them up. Over the past few months, many, many years.]] So I just want to know who Danielenko represents -- is he a government, or is he a government in itself? For it is not like this at all that a man should go out and speak of himself, and it is to be obtained. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let us find out: If this is not a government project, why did we waste our time considering it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u129	The point is, this is a government bill, Danielenko is representing the government, and the MPs are expressing their point of view. Dear colleagues, that's how I see it. After the vote, your line was. Carmazine's microphone. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In a speech by a Communist MP, my view of love was misrepresented in general and my love for Prime Minister Timoshenko. I just showed you where the law is. Article 5, paragraph 4, where the dog is trapped and said that Julia Timoshenko had signed an anti-national bill. As a Christian, I love all Ukrainians, including Julia Timoshenko as a woman, as an accomplice to the revolution, and as a Communist colleague, I also love her, although I feel sorry for her views, because she's twisting the facts in her speech right now. That's why she's painting locks that don't exist. That's why I'm sorry. And this law lets us reject and include it just before that point in the Law on the Market of the Earth. I deliberately didn't call my last name, and I'm asking you to remove my last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, please! What? What? He didn't mention his last name! I beg of you, fellows of honor! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the name of the national MP is mentioned. [[I'm begging you!]] Please! Dear colleagues, the vote is on the motion. [[I'm begging you!]] Well, please tell me if you're interested in losing your job! Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to this: in my statement, I made a clear reference to the articles of the laws: the First - Earth Code, and the draft law that we are discussing. I quoted them. And in these laws, it has been shown that the draft states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the land privatization programme. There is no such thing as the Earth Code. So I went on to explain the situation. That's why I didn't misrepresent the facts. And the MP who accused me of this, please apologize to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, please let's work constructively. Dear colleagues, calm down. What's the line? Well, at least you've considered it a woman's performance, a national deputy! Well, don't abuse me, please! Please! Honourable National MPs, despite the fact that the committee is proposing to reject the bill, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Land Trade Act and auction activity on the land market. Registration number 7488. Please vote. [[13:26:11]] For-0 Thank you, Your Honor. Please, calm down! Well, if it's zero, what about the factions? Let's go to the factions, please. "Our Ukraine", Communists, "Regions of Ukraine", Block Timoshenko, People's Party, SPU, Ukrainian People's Party, SDPU(o)-0, Democratic Ukraine, Only Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 0. Thus, the bill is rejected. The draft law is being announced for consideration. What do you want? What? [[N o M e s s a ……]] Calm down, please! A draft law on government debt is being announced for consideration. Mikhail Vasilovich, please don't abuse me! I'm begging you, don't abuse me! I'm begging you again, don't abuse me. Make changes to the Rules when they mention a faction, and then they will reply, please. Yes, honourable colleagues, such regulations are proposed for consideration of the bill. For the report, up to five minutes, for the report. For a question to the reporter - 3 minutes, for a co-report - 3 minutes, a discussion - 10 minutes. No warning? Thank you. We continue our work for 15 minutes, up to 14 hours 15 minutes. Please. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich, you're already abusing me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u134	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill is prepared for the implementation of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that only by law is there an order for the formation and repayment of national domestic and external debt. The current Internal Debt Act of 1992 is constantly halted by budget laws, and at the same time, life is not in place. At the moment, the government debt is $15.9 billion -- 80 billion dollars. With an external debt of $11 billion, which is 71 percent of the total. Part of the domestic government debt is extremely small, and this is one of the criteria for assessing the structure of government debt and the national financial system. Ukraine spends about 13 billion dollars a year in public debt service, 5 times more than in health care, 2.7 billion dollars; and twice as much as in defense of Ukraine. The annual amount of government debt amounts to about $5 billion. So the question of the price of 1/5 of the State budget is currently not regulated by law. The existing legislative field for regulating relations arising from government debt management and government debt transactions, on the one hand, does not correspond to the existing processes of deepening market reform to the foundations of the State's macroeconomic policy and is non-systemic. The executive branch of the Ministry of Finance, in fact, does not have sufficient legal grounds for managing government debt. The very concept of "government of government debt" is undefined, and all government activity in debt is limited. The main purpose of the bill is to create a system-wide regulatory field for relations that arise in government debt policy operations with government debt instruments. The adoption of the bill will ensure that the mechanism for public borrowing and debt repayment, transparency and predictability are improved for all economic agents. Government debt management. Promoting the development of the public securities market, improving the public debt management system through a modern market tool will allow Ukraine to save about 100 million dollars a year. To pay off the old debt on an early basis, if we can take loans at 6% today, why not pay off the loans that cost us 11% today and more. The main content of the project is that it forms a whole legislative field in the implementation of debt policy. First of all, the project provides a definition of new terms and clarifications of existing normative terms. Secondly, the status of government debt, order of formation and service is clearly defined. Thirdly, the Ministry of Finance is defined as the only government authority to be responsible for the development and implementation of debt policy and government debt management, which will increase the transparency of decisions, the responsibility of executive authorities for the macroeconomic consequences of their adoption. The adoption of the law will enhance the responsibility of the Government and the efficiency of government debt management, increase parliamentary control over the quality of debt policy. The adoption of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the budget, but it will lead to a significant economy of the state budget. Its text is the result of a ten - year work of a wide range of renowned experts, many national deputies, both the fourth and third vocations. Moreover, we are constantly reminded of the timely drafting and adoption of the law. Please support this bill, which is called upon to resolve a very important issue for our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u135	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for three minutes. Please show me the name of the national MPs on the sign as well. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, your question?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland's Defenders, honourable reporter, I thank you for this bill. Tell me, please, do you think that the government has every year, every year, I emphasize, to report on both domestic and external government debt and to show ways to reduce that debt. That's the first question. And the second question. Do you think that, from what time does the Ukrainian Law on State Internal Debt, adopted in 1992, and where "transitional positions" will be among these laws, it worked, and this is not all taken into account yet in what you're proposing. So what bridge do they have between them to ensure the interests of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. You know, it's a very important question about the government's debt report. We will insist that, when each government budget is made available, the government should make a plan of borrowing for the next seven years. For example, so that today’s finance minister doesn’t take credit for which the state will be responsible in five years, and we haven’t seen a certain amount of pressure on the State Budget there. Therefore, the government must lend not only one year but all five years to the Government. That's what we're putting in the budget resolution. I hope that it will be included in this year’s budget. The other one. As far as the Internal Debt Act 1992 is concerned, it's constantly stopped by the State Budget in the Final Positions, and in every state budget, it stops. And we propose after the adoption of this bill, I'm willing to accept all of the proposals that are not taken into account, in your opinion, in the second reading. After this adoption of the bill, the Act on State Internal Debt of 1992 was repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u138	Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u139	Please pass the word to my friend Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorjevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u140	George Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u141	Thank you. George Ponomarenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Vladimir Yakovic, who has just been approved of the Savings Act, provides for the introduction of these 132 billion savings into government debt. Your law does not provide for that. What are we going to do, make changes to the savings law, or do we put a second reading into your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u142	Thank you. All that the Supreme Council accepts is the law after the President has signed. Let's wait for the President to sign this law, then we'll consider it his law. My bill defines a clear government debt, I'll literally quote it. "Total amount." What is government debt? "The total amount of the State's unconditional debt obligations in respect of unliquidated loans and loans arising from public borrowings on a certain date." So all that is a moment of government borrowing to cover the government budget deficit is government debt. If the law you're talking about is passed, and it's recognized, then this amount of 130 billion dollars will be recognized as a sovereign debt, so it's invested in the state debt position, and it's still served by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u144	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u145	From the Committee of Sergei Vasilovich Burjak, chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. For your consideration, you will see a landmark bill that began in 1995. But the laws on this issue, for reasons of government debt, were hampered by the fact that the issue of government debt was responsible. New government institutions of government debt management began to appear in the bill. For example, I'm going to remind you of a government debt management agency that has resolved an immediate discussion with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, which has certainly caused this bill to be delayed because it has not been reconciled with the position of any government. Procrastination with the adoption of a special basic law on government debt leads to contradictions between the positions of individual statutory acts on the issue of public debt and public debt. On several occasions, two draft laws on the subject were discussed in the committee. There were violent debates, but it was only in May this year that the authors of the two bills and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine reached agreement in the concept of the bill. So today in the session room, you and I are looking at a draft law that we've been working on. The bill, unlike the previous bill, provides for a more general definition of the basic concepts used in this law, the basic conditions for empowering the government to enter into contracts, state loans agreements and granting State guarantees on these loans are the second. Third, the commitment of borrowers to repay government debt and to fulfil State guarantees. We didn't have that. Fourth, registration and government debt management, including government guarantees. The five functions of the Ministry of Finance and Government Agents in managing, using and servicing external government loans. [[It's a novelty.]] Sixth, the mandatory conditions for the granting of State guarantees and the procedure for minimizing the risk of nonrefoulement, as well as the conditions for the granting of State guarantees to public debt. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill will conceptually address a set of problems related to the need to determine the best sources of financing for the needs of the State. So we ask the people's deputies to adopt this bill as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u148	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Over the years of independence, every year every new government euphoric reports that it has managed once again to take credit at this rate. And so each year, this debt increases and the loop stretches. Today, as a white day, it is clear that Ukraine is losing hope of World Bank debt under much lower interest rates. The causes of the surface, international financial organizations and the European community, are slowing down with the provision of cheap loans because they do not meet their obligations to carry out the structural reforms they need. I'd like to hear the answer to the question, do we need to borrow funds in this awful amount if the treasury accounts are focused on about 14 billion dollars, most of which have no specific budgetary assignments and can be in pain for the budget used to pay off the debt? A good master lives by the principle of "stretch his feet on his clothes," and when he loses his way out, only then does he take the debt, spending it on a reasonable basis. What about our country? Irresponsibility and irresponsibility. But the average citizen asks the question: Does Ukraine need such a debt when people’s assets are continuously distributed at the privatisation market? A good host, when he manages to sell something, hastens to repay the money immediately rather than to borrow new money. Where, then, did the money from the sale of government property come from? And the money was solid. Which ball did the money burn down? We don't know. And common sense claims that these resources would be more appropriate to repay old and new debts. Truth is, early repayment of old debts today is a healthy budget tomorrow, it's a reduction in tax pressure, it's an opportunity for future generations to channel government funds for more attractive purposes than debt accounting. The prime ministers and the government, in their years of independence, sadly took away our generation. The Communists repeatedly opposed the country’s involvement in this cabal, warning that what would result and who would benefit from it. It is painful to talk about it, but it must be admitted that our children and grandchildren will long be counted for these debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Next is Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, well, first of all, this is better done by law or not better, of course, the law that is, of course, the national domestic debt of Ukraine, which we adopted back in 1992, is out of date. Of course, the old - fashioned approach that is now in the state, even to the fulfillment of that law, is out - of - date. Of course, it is better if it is written now as proposed in the project: that it be made up of government debt, from domestic debt and from state external debt. All liabilities that make up an internal and external sovereign debt are equal to their status regardless of their date of origin and legal form. The recognition of some obligations as priorities for others is prohibited. That's what the law says, it's what it says. But I want to see what's left outside the law. I want the Ukrainians to know that the Ukrainians themselves are outside this law. And don't let me be offended by the authors of this bill, I don't see you including our commitments, which are recognized by our Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings in 1997. Where are they included in this law’s savings? Why don't you include them here? Ladies and gentlemen! So I would ask you all of the State's obligations to the citizens of Ukraine who lost up to January 2, 2002, in the Savings institutions, in the institutions of the State, and the sum of these -- we have determined with you -- 131 and 96 billion dollars, including only 121 billion dollars in cash savings. Today at every meeting with citizens, you will hear, "And whether or not these savings will be committed. Let's think about it. Is that a huge amount that we can't give back? But you can give it back, but you can find that amount, but even today we don't want to write this law down, part of our internal government debt, which is set up by the laws that are already in force. So I'd ask the authors, I'd ask for a committee that doesn't. It was quite critical of these provisions, since the adoption of new laws, in accordance with article 22 of the Constitution, cannot make the situation of a citizen of that State worse. And let's not let our people worry, we're going to say this right now, because otherwise I'm afraid to vote. I can already see that the government's zero supply is coming and maybe there'll be a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u151	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u152	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk oblast, People's Party faction. I support the author, Vladimir Yakovlewich, not only because he and I are with him with a faction of the People's Party, but because he, as a person professionally engaged in the budget in particular, is working on a budget committee that understands all the details of the budgetary formation of policies in Ukraine, in my view, has brought the right idea, and when someone here is crying about the savings of Sberbank, let me say, let's include it in the bill for second reading. And when we find a reason not to vote and thereby leave a public debt without a regulatory document in violation of article 92 of our Constitution, which states that there should be separate legislation on service and public debt in general, that is, it is said, two large differences, as your beloved Odessa says. Ours too. Then, speaking of what we are discussing today, we must bear in mind that the commitment of the State totalling 16 billion dollars is at stake. My dears! We have already pledged $16 billion to future generations. On this basis, we are obliged, and I repeat, 92 articles of the Constitution, to make a separate law on public debt, and we must put order in place, not as we do today, that every year in the State Budget Act we introduce three or four articles which, in any case, regulate the state debt situation with all possible nuances, which is abnormal. There must be one law, as required by the Constitution. Next. The bill would literally allow the budget to be saved for public debt services because it would provide for clear, transparent procedures for securing, servicing and generally servicing debt. These savings, including that, would be absolutely correct if we were to commit ourselves to the investors of the former Soviet Union and to other obligations of the State to their citizens. Therefore, I would like to state that we, as a faction of the People's Party, will support this bill because we believe that it will enable civilisation to work with public budget commitments and thus provide an opportunity for real economic benefits that can be channelled to the needs of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u153	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Conotapian constituency, faction of the Company. When I read this law, I'd give him another name, because the State Debt Act. And so you read and you think, "Look, thank God, maybe someone's debt will be returned there." And here must be the Law on Government Debt Management, because this law almost always speaks of it. I've had a few questions that I'd like to focus on right now, Mr. People's Deputies. Questions. In the event that funds from internal or external sources are found to be incomplete, a reduction or increase in the national currency’s national debt limit may be made at the expense of the corresponding increase or reduction in the foreign currency’s sovereign debt. This is understood to mean that if you are included in the State Budget to pay off the debt to the population, I can change the figure. That's how I see it. She's giving me some anxiety. Debt load indicators. [[Article 10]] I still don't understand what an internal debt rate will be for the National Bank of Ukraine, for me too. Government debt management is carried out by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, either on behalf of its mandate and on behalf of other organizations and institutions. What? It's a question. And once again, the final question is that the source of the fund is the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a matter of the Law. And most of all, here is Anatoly, present Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, and I wanted to ask him, maybe he'll give an explanation someday: on May 30, this year, Decree 409 came out on the return of the debt to the population of 500 million, it's written down how these people are going to get 500 million out of their savings book and it's written that those who died by 2004 will get 150 dollars, and those who died in 2005 will get 500 dollars. Those who had insurance in Orant died before 2004 will get -- 150 dollars, and those who died in 2005 will get 500 dollars. Again, people today realize: What is the difference between the population of our country? And I also have a question: a draft decision on the return of 9 billion debt for a storage book that can be written like this today. And it does not take into account today the proportion of the rural population that has no debt for public services, does not include the population, its fate, which has paid regularly for utilities. Why we could not include in this regulation the gasification of the population items at the expense of the savings that have been made, including the peasants of ours who have been completely erased from this decree, or the project that the government is preparing today. I mean 9 billion 31 articles on Ukraine's Budget 2006, 2005. And all the remarks that we have to take into account today before this decision becomes effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please come to the session room, and we will now decide what to do. Please, Igor Shurma, then the author, Eugene Gournik, and then the author of the draft Law - Masters. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u156	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Well, I think it's important to note that this bill is quite successful, although it has some flaws. But the main principle issue, in our view, is the equal responsibility of Ukraine for all government debts. In our view, if, in article 2 of the bill after the sentence, "recognition of certain obligations as priorities for others is prohibited" to add, "if otherwise not established by law," it can substantially change the attitude of investors in Ukraine and raise the balance to the value of borrowing, because all the other shortcomings that are in the bill are essentially stylistic and could be completely avoided. Thus, according to the faction, this bill can be based on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u157	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u158	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that Vladimir Masterskin is the head of the State Debt Subcommittee, and this conclusion is the conclusion not only of the Committee on Finance but also of the Committee on Budgets, with the request to support this long-needed and coherent bill. And you don't have to complain about different nuances. In the second reading, he can be further developed. The management agency is appropriate at the expense of the Ministry of Finance. And as for savings, this is definitely a debt, and this is a bill that needs to be completed, but you don't have to close your eyes on it, it's not just an internal debt. We're talking a long time ago about negotiating with Russia, Belarus, with other countries that were part of the former Soviet Union to determine whose share was taken away in the 1990s and this debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u159	Volodymyr Masters, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u160	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I accept the comments that have been made from the rostrum about this bill. But this is largely true of the first draft of this bill. I point out to you that literally two weeks ago, we made in exchange all the positions that apply to government debt management agencies that apply to other liabilities. We counted it. And it's no longer in the new data. That's the first one. The other one. I hope that we will be actively involved in the second reading. Because today it is a very important law. I think that we will definitely stand back and that it will be included in the 2006 budget as a law that has already been passed. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u161	Yes, my fellow Members, I would like to say that this law is prepared to implement article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines that exclusively by laws the order of formation and repayment of national domestic and external debt. Obviously, we have to get out of this. So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft State Debt Act, registration number 1229. Please vote. "For" - 306 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues. Now. No, you can't. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please microphone. Now, attention, we're going to have to make important decisions. We've got 15 minutes to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to tell the whole of Ukraine once again that the faction of the Socialist Party in Parliament is coming out of the programming principles of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We have never supported or supported laws that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. We will not support actions that go against the Ukrainian people. We never, personally, ever touch any political party, no person in my performances. Because one person is not the whole party. Today, Ukraine’s Socialist Party has 100,000 members. And so, once again, we are very balanced in our work in Parliament, and we will act with balance for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and consider a number of drafts. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I asked and announced that we would continue our work for 15 minutes. May I have your attention, fellow officers? I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the General Product Safety Act. [[Registration number 7562]] Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. For - 155 The decision is not taken. For reasons, please Peter Simonenko and then Igor Shurma. Well, we didn't put the agenda in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u164	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I did not ask for any reason in connection with the fact that we are moving to a chapter of very important drafts dealing with the problems of international relations, and this is practically the opening of Ukraine's domestic markets for a foreign mess. This is called the SAT program, which is now being incorporated into the Supreme Council by the current authority of nationalists and socialists. So on the basis of this, I want to warn you the next time, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we have no right to consider these draft laws without economic justification, is the first, without socio-economic development forecast, without the definition of public policy to support a domestic producer, to fill our internal market, to increase the purchasing power of citizens, and much more. If we continue to consider, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then the Supreme Council and you, including yourself, involve us in becoming criminals in front of our own people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u165	Igor Šurma. Then Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u166	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished radio listeners! I'd like to explain the faction's position, why we didn't vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, which is of general interest and importance. There is no doubt that the problem needs to be addressed in the Supreme Council, but the faction will, first of all, defend the interests of the domestic producer, because these are jobs and this is the performance of the President's program, which promised to create jobs. This is the first time. And secondly, the faction will not vote in favour of any bill until the government's co-sponsors, Teryochin and Polishchuk, the national MPs, sit down. They will be authorized, they will not violate the Constitution and the Ukrainian Act on State Service and Corruption, we will be considering these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u167	Yes, Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u168	Matvienkov, 155th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues! We have considered very carefully on the committee the entire block of legislation of all the laws that were proposed yesterday and which are being proposed today. One thing can be said under this bill: a bill that amends more than 10 legislations so far. The law is indeed raw, and the law is not simple. The law, which truly gives priority to the importer, is without a doubt. But this is the only bill on which the committee has determined that it could be adopted on first reading, I stress once again, only on first reading for the basis, provided that we build on this bill a superstructure of the entire security system of the output. But for that to happen, we need very serious cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers to date so that we can correct the amendments that are already being made today. The comments that are contained in this bill today. That is, it requires serious, fruitful work. Pissip.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u169	Bogdan Kostinyuk, then Lilia Grigorovich, and we will be determined. Dear colleagues, It's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u170	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In my opinion, you are now in violation of the Rules, as your first deputy Martinyuk did yesterday in order to carry out important government projects and not include in the agenda. And this may explain that yesterday only one minor decision was taken. A violation of your ability to discuss this bill without including it in the agenda. The very opposition and unification of the various parties that follow the principle: Grandma Yaga v. - and they will do anything to prevent the government from incorporating important bills into the agenda. I propose these seven important government bills to put the daily package into order and each of them to discuss the reduced procedure, as provided for in the Rules: two in favour, two in favour, and two in favour, and to make a decision. Do not allow the bill to be discussed until the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask a distinguished colleague to see the saint before dropping the charges. After I made a proposal for inclusion in the agenda, she did not receive support. In order to find a way out of the situation and compromise in Parliament, I asked the deputies to exchange their thoughts. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleague, study the Rules, where it is written that decisions are made on every issue, and then you will teach me. Lilia Grigorovich. It's not a discussion to find compromise. And now we're going to vote. Please, that's enough!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u172	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Thank you for your word, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision is not supported, the question is not put into the agenda. So we have two more days with you to reexamine both economic and financial justification and relevance, as a colleague put it. I'm going to say one thing: if we say today that social, medical, economic, food safety standards in Europe are worse than we have, then of course we're going to fool not only ourselves, but our voters. Speaking of the effective work of our Parliament, I would like to say that, if we're only interested in 150 people's deputies being able to make the decision that they're interested in, and the interests and needs of 47 million are out of our sight, we can continue to work as we did yesterday. And thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for today's discussion. I hope we're on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Here's the offer, please. Who's to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the General Product Safety Act? Well, please, Peter Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! That's when you need to know. One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich. So when you're interested in one part, that's the question. Let's go straight. Again, Peter Mikolaiovich, why did we exchange thoughts? Why did they exchange? I beg you, Peter Mikolaiovich, please don't show this aggression. I'm voting on the proposal. Who's to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on general product safety? "For" - 132 The decision is not taken. You see, it's okay. Next. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Next project, please focus. Who is in charge of including in the agenda the draft law on amending the Ukrainian law on the development of the car industry with regard to the lifting of localization conditions? Registration number 7569. Please vote. "To" - 97 Dear National Deputies! In connection with what happened. One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich. In view of the fact that I do not see the desire and will of the political community in the parliamentary environment at this time, I think we need to have further consultations with the government and the political factions and then make a decision. For Simonenko's reasons, please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this bill, based on what it practically provides for a ban on the state of Ukraine to have its own policy regarding support or a particular industry or a particular enterprise. I mean, it's forbidden to support, let's say, the Automobile Automobile Program for Veterans and Pensioners, allocate state funds and implement a program of support for disabled people and participants in the Great Homeland War. This is prohibited by this law. It's forbidden to support a Cremencucci car factory that releases trucks, and we have to support it. It's a practical enterprise that makes up this city and it's going to have a local budget and a lot of other things. We are against such laws and will never support them. I urge you, my dear colleagues, not to uphold such anti-national laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u175	Eugene Gorenik, please, microphone. Then Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u176	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! I'm not surprised at all by Petra Mikolaiovich, and he's always been against Satan, just to get us to fight. But I'm surprised at the factions: "Ukraine regions", "SDPU," "Democratic Initiatives" and more. When you were in the majority you said that the strategic course of Ukraine is an introduction to the World Trade Organization and you accused us of stopping this course. Let us be consistent and go out of our minds. One of the laws of the Committee felt that it was necessary to take into account the fact that it was frameworkd, it provided elements for the protection of our manufacturer. I propose that the government negotiate with all factions, including the factions of the former majority, to achieve this strategic course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u177	Please. Please, Sulkowski. Let's do this by holding a meeting for the Communist faction. Let them speak, then you'll say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I really support you that you don't have the will to keep working right now, you have to really make a deal. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we can't today, and it was surprising to all parliamentarians that for the first time in history, there was no such case for the fourth time when we were looking at a previous draft of the Land Trade Act and auction activity in the government market, where 0 votes were given to Parliament today. If this had happened in the world, or in Germany, in America, the government had already been retired by evening. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a request that we pay attention to how government policy today leads in the grain sector is approaching the gathering of bread. See the policy of 690 bracelets The government offers the price of farmers. What the hell is this? It's just a disgrace to this state policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u179	Yes. Replica Simonenko. Then the school and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u180	Simonenko, Communist faction. Dear voters, responding to previous allegations at our faction's address, I would like to state that we are the Communist factions, not against Ukraine's participation in those or other economic unions, but we demand and will stand firm on the following principles. We demand first of all the economic, social, and political consequences of any other introduction. Because you can enter and then the people of Ukraine suffer for a long time. Secondly, we demand that today our policy of the Supreme Council be geared towards protecting a domestic producer, i.e. protecting the interests of people who want to live and work in Ukraine. The government’s policy of nationalists and socialists will now expel several million more Ukrainian citizens in search of a piece of bread abroad. These are the same children again, our parents and mothers, this is once again the lack of funding for hospitals and educational institutions. That's why the Communist faction opposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u181	Yes. Andrew School and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u182	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, two words to the communists: no matter how hard you try, no matter how hard you try to make Ukraine go away, it is and it will be. No matter how much you fight against the English language, you sincerely and consistently hate it, it will still be. What you wouldn't write on those walls would still be Ukraine and its language. And I want to say to that deputy who spoke before. I'll say it again: it was the law of your government, because it paid for it, the faction paid for your transition from one faction to another, financed you and financed you now. And of course, now to lie and attack the government, because that's not gonna happen, because democracy. But honor is always above all else. So I would have called this from the breaker and the bastard who's trying now, by the way, I don't know why Terjehochin's communicating with him right now. Because it would be beneath my dignity to look in his direction. But the democratic government, you see, is still communicating with him. So we didn't vote in favour of this law for a simple reason, it was the law of Janukovich, it was the law adopted by the Supreme Council. And now we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, obviously we need to take a break now. Before the announcement is off. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Saligin Vasil Viktorovich, is part of the People's Party. As well as being part of the National People’s Party’s Party of Ukrainian Deputy Yudkoymov Valery Aleksandrovitch. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Parliamentary hearings will begin at 3 p.m., while committee meetings will begin. And at 2.30 p.m. in the conference room, that's the bottom meeting of the Conciliation Council. The authorized representatives of the MPs and factions, the board of directors of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and the co-chairs of the Temporary Special Commission on Constitutional Bills are invited to attend. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday.
