ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u1	Heads. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Three hundred and thirty national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held at the morning meeting of the Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By a decree of 3 November 2004, the Supreme Council defined the Government's Day of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005 and the development of the International Children's Centre "Artec". A government spokesman has appointed a minister for family, children, and young people. Information and analysis on this subject is given to you. A committee of professionals proposes such a government day. Give the reporter 15 minutes. To answer the question, take an hour and 30 minutes. For a presentation by a representative of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, and Sports, and tourism should be given up to 15 minutes. It takes up to 40 minutes for the national MPs to speak. Are there other suggestions? None. Then do we agree? Let's move on to the question. For information on the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005 and the development of the International Children's Centre "Artek" is given to the Minister for Family Affairs, Children and Young Pavelek Jurija Alexiyovich. Please, Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. First of all, of course, it is very difficult to report from the very beginning of the government’s work. To date, however, the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers, where the issue of children, their recovery, is a very important item. In addition, the government’s plan of action will soon be in place, where the issue of child recovery will not be the last place. Both the national MPs and the profile committee will be able to get to know him, make the necessary changes, so that this year we can significantly increase the number of children who will be able to recover. In recent years, thanks to both the executive work and, above all, the Supreme Council and the profiling committee have been able to strengthen the issue considerably. And every year, we've seen an increase in those children who were able to get better. State statistics show that since 2000, there has been a steady increase in the number of children who were able to recover in the summer. Yeah, in 95 this right was 1 million. 118 thousand. Children and 2 million children in 2004 767 thousand. Children with 2 million children 767 thousand. The children who were cured last summer. 46.5 percent received these services from rural health facilities, including sanitation and sanatoriums. However, half of the children have recovered from school health facilities, although this kind of health needs to take place because it performs an important role in providing children with organized recreation, care, nutrition, and at the same time does not separate their children from the family. During the summer of last year, there were 19.4,000. Children's health facilities. In 2003, 14.9 thousand, of which 895 are out-of-town and sanitary types. You can see all of this on slides. The attention of government and local executives and local self - government was focused primarily on providing health care for children who need the most attention and care from the State. According to the U.S. State Department, 94.6 thousand orphans and children deprived of parental care have been healed from the total number of healthy children in children's health facilities. 25,000 children with disabilities, 646,000 children from many children and low-income families, 11,000 children who were affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In institutions throughout the year, 45,000 children are cured. In the fall of Ukraine, more than 100 children living in an area of military conflict in Iraq and over 600 children and parents affected by the tragedy in Beslan, the Russian Federation. Central and local executives and local self - government began work on the 2005 health season. However, a number of objective reasons, such as the election of the President of Ukraine, changes or expectations of change, especially regional leaders, have slowed the process somewhat. The main efforts of the 2005 health campaign should be aimed at improving the quality of health care and increasing the number of healthy children, especially the socially vulnerable categories, by ensuring the timely preparation of the entire existing health care network, the identification of facilities and their preparation for the organization of day-care facilities, the search for additional sources to increase funding for the health care campaign, the quality of the selection and training of staff for children's senior health organizers. Successful health - care campaigns are based on timely and adequate funding. The 2005 State Budget provides 171.1 million dollars to provide for the recovery of children, and in 2004 it provides 147 million dollars. In particular, the Ministry of Education and Science — 10.5 million, the Ministry of Emergency Situations — 105 and a half million dollars, Minsimimoldi — 20 million dollars, and Minagropolitic — five million dollars. The government administration of the affairs of the President of Ukraine is 26.9 million dollars for travel to the International Children's Centre, Artek. The Social Insurance Fund, with temporary loss of employment, is 111 million dollars, and it's going to target the recovery of children. The State budget also provides for the release of transactions from the sale of travel to child health facilities from VAT payments. For operational information from the region of Ukraine, there are over 140 million dollars in district and local budgets. In order to provide for the health and recreation of children, an additional 280 million dollars are also planned. The projected funding of the health campaign in the local budgets of Winnitsky, Zaporziski, Luhansk, Mikolaiivsk, Kharkiv, Church districts and Kiev has increased significantly. However, the state of funding for the rehabilitation of children in the Gitomir region and in the city of Sevastopol is of concern. The amount of funding that has been reported allows for a slightly higher number of healthy children if energy prices and foodstuffs are stable. With a view to the efficient use of the budget for Minsimimolody, the MNF, together with Minfin, has developed an order for the implementation of expenditure on centralised leisure and child-repair measures in 2005, with budgetary programmes that provide for the maximum allocation of travel costs to local health facilities and health care according to medical evidence to be approved by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. In February, tender procedures for the purchase of travel and the recovery of children are under way at the expense of the State Budget in March and in the local budgets. The task is to ensure the timeliness, transparency and fairness of their public spending, thereby providing better conditions for the recovery of children. During the 2005 health campaign, about 3 million children are scheduled to receive organized forms of recovery and rest. Special attention will be paid to children who need special care and support from the State. According to previous reports from local executives, about 98 per cent of orphans and children deprived of parental care, 40 per cent of children with disabilities, 30 per cent of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, 60 per cent of children from low-income and multi-child families, 90 per cent of children from domestic workers who died in service, 90 per cent of children from lost miners. For gifted and talented children, the leaders of children’s social organizations in each area will be able to organize specialized changes in children’s health facilities, creative associations, and workshops where children will be able to increase their knowledge and skills. In order to avoid duplicating the recovery of children at the expense of the budget, Minsimiyamyouth develops an order for the local authorities of the executive branch of the children of the pension categories who can be healed at the expense of the budget. According to the inventory carried out in 2003 by the Ministry of Health in conjunction with local executives and local self - government in Ukraine, 1010 are fixed children’s health facilities. Of these, state and municipal property 451,517 are owned by labour groups, 27 by private individuals, 15 by other nations. More than 114 health facilities have also been discovered, which have not been used for a long time. From down in 2004, local authorities restored the function of 26 facilities, and in 2005 it is planned to complete the renovation work in 13 more facilities. The existing fixed network of children's health facilities accounts for 225.5,000 beds in the average working time for children's health facilities last year was 67 days on an average 18-day health shift. The work of local executives and self - government, the owners of health facilities in the current year, should be directed towards the full use of the existing stationary health base, which can increase by 15 percent the number of children cured in out-of-town and sanatorium facilities. With the aim of maintaining a network of children’s health facilities in 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the list of children’s health institutions in state and municipal forms of property and banned their retraining. In order to preserve the profile of children's health facilities in bankruptcy, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Child Health Institutions, in particular the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Purpose Funds, and the Law on Restoration or Determining of the Debtor's Payment. In March, most of the children’s health facilities reported that they were starting to prepare for the 2005 health campaign. However, 3.5 million dollars against 2 million dollars in 2004 projected in local budgets for the preparation of children's health facilities for the summer season are only allowing for priority cosmetic repairs according to the requirements of sanatorium epidemiology and technical services. With a view to ensuring safe conditions for children in health care facilities, prejudging accidents and trauma related services in April/April will be checked for the state of preparation of children's health facilities for the adoption of children: supervision of preparation, drinking water condition, water supply, swimming pools for children. The Ministry of Internal Affairs will ensure the protection of the rule of law at rest and the rehabilitation of children. As in previous years, the ministries of transport and communication will carry out transports with the duty rate of children of socially vulnerable categories and group orders. The child’s health system also needs a legislative and regulatory arrangement to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the Min family of young people, together with other central executives of the scientific community, through the development of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Rest of Children, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council after consideration of the Cabinet of Ministers. The support of the bill by the Supreme Council will provide an opportunity to regulate relations in the area of child recovery under new conditions. The success of a health care company in the summer of 2005 will depend on many factors, including the organized start and recovery of children, the timely and full funding, and the concerted interaction of all branches of executive power and local self - government, the public in addressing child recovery issues. As for information on the development of the young children's, the International Children's Centre, Artek. As we know, it was founded in the 25th year, in the year 95, Artek became a state-owned enterprise in Ukraine and was in the sphere of government of the Ukrainian Ministry of Youth and Sport. Since '97, the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth. In 2000, according to the Ukrainian Presidential Decree, the International Children's Centre "Artek" is in the sphere of government, in the area of government administration of the affairs of the President of Ukraine. Artek has a special place in health institutions for its 80-year history, a whole system of organization, recreation and recovery of children that has no analogues in the world. Today, given that there's not enough time left, I think I can answer some of the questions about "Artec," in answer to a question, but today we need to consolidate all the efforts to make Artek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u3	Yes, please, if there is no objection, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u4	The International Children's Centre, Artek, has left its existence. We managed to preserve it for Ukrainian and other children, not allowing them to sell it as they tried to make individuals. So in this case, the Ukrainian Ministry of Family, Children and Youth proposes to transfer the International Children's Centre "Artek" to the Ministry of Minsimimolade and to take it away from the State Administration. In addition, taking into account the great experience of Artek in international action, we will need to do so, to use the broader base and capabilities of Artek to work with international organizations on child health and recreation, and to complete the decision on the inclusion of Artek in the list of UNESCO core objects for international actions for children and young people in the field of culture and international communication. On the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the founding of Artek, we consider it appropriate to develop a draft decree by the President of Ukraine to mark this date and to violate the concerns of the President of Ukraine about granting the International Children's Centre "Artek" the status of a national institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please. We give it this way: lips, letters -- let's queue. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine," questions. Then it's in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Minister, please tell me if you know the fares that the State Administration has implemented in this international camp. Do you know that our Ukrainian citizens are actually forced to pay double wages: firstly, the budget is subsidized by Artek, and secondly, three skins are removed from citizens. And only the children of very rich people can afford to rest in this camp. That's the first question. And the second. I very much welcome the intention of transferring this institution to your Ministry of Public Administration. Congratulations. But is there an inventory, and are you ready to report the results of this inventory now? Because I'm not ready to say it's so good. On the contrary, I'd say it's bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u7	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. Indeed, there was a problem with Artek. And if you answer your question in turn, let's say the cost of a one-day trip was 122 bracelets, while the average value in other sanatoriums for children was about 32 bracelets per day. Besides, I may disagree with you here, because according to the data I own, the International Children's Centre "Artek" was not funded by the State Budget of Ukraine for any of the expenses except for the acquisition of travel for children. All of this did not happen until 2004. Last year alone, $26.5 million was allocated for the reconstruction of the State budget. That's right. The current accounts receivable at the end of 2004 amounted to seven million dollars, a credit card of 77 million dollars. That's right. In 2004, 26 million were allocated to reconstruction work from the State budget of Ukraine. That's right. In fact, when the situation occurred last summer, the Supreme Council Committee held a field meeting and checked the situation that resulted from the debt owed to Artec. And today there's a will and a government, and there's a desire for the Artec team to do a full inventory, to make Artek function year-round, and Artek worked 100 percent of its capacity. Moreover, today’s arrangements with international organizations and, in particular, with UNESCO provide an opportunity to expand the base and, in particular, the financial base for this international centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u8	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u9	The written question, the deputy faction of the Ukrainian Company: "Why aren't the requirements of the Supreme Council's decision to grant Artek national status met?" Well, I actually said that in my report. We will initiate to the President and bring him up to date in the established order for the issuance of a decree granting the status of Artek to the national. And this process, I think, will take place shortly after the final completion of the process of forming the Ukrainian Secretaryate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u10	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u11	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear Mr. Minister! I have two questions. First of all, is your department going to or is it not going to be returned to the state property of the Young Guard Health Center? You didn't say anything about him. And secondly, given that we have a percentage of children's health, I have a question, that is, we probably don't have enough health facilities, the question is, how many health facilities have been built in the last five years, or some other year? What can you do to make sure that the child’s recovery is complete?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. As far as Young Guards is concerned, it is indeed a problem that has existed in recent years. And as far as I've been able to handle this in a few days at the Ministry, because there are only over a hundred parliamentary requests and appeals to the Young Guard in the past year alone. In 1992, however, Young Guard was transferred to the Society of pioneer organizations in Ukraine for rent. After that, this association was reorganized into the Federation of Youth Children's Organizations -- and in fact, it completely collapsed whether it created the impossible normal financial and economic activity of this institution. There's a desire today, and it's been expressed as in the appeals of the national MPs, there's a desire today for the Young Guard's labour force to move to state property, but to do that, we need to go through a very complex legal procedure that my predecessors in this position have not been able to do. And in this case, there's also a reference to the people's deputies, especially those who represent this district, this territory, by working together to find a legal and legal mechanism, how to transfer the Young Guard to state property and how to ensure that this health facility is fully operational. But the problem remains today. As far as Ukraine is concerned, of course, the task we have set ourselves is to heal primarily one hundred percent of the most vulnerable categories of children. We have, of course, a unique situation in Ukraine because we have a strong enough health base that is not available in any country of the world and that allows us to go to that number anyway. In addition, there is a need for further expansion, let's say, a sector-specific recovery of child health care, and we plan to involve as many children's and youth-based social organizations as possible during the summer period. As for the facilities that opened up, I said in my statement that the total number after the inventory of such facilities was 110 in Ukraine, of which 114 were not working at all, and now the work of part of these facilities is being restored. In 2004, 26 facilities were restored, and 13 more children’s health facilities are scheduled to be restored in 2005. To build new ones, the state has no resources, and this is only possible when private capital is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u13	Yes, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u14	The MP's faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. "Why is the Artek International Children's Centre in the knowledge of the State Department of Affairs and not the Ministry of Family Affairs?" Actually, this is an initiative, and we will, I hope, succeed. I answered that question, yes. Next question. Ukraine’s Company’s deputy faction, Yulia’s deputy faction, Timoshenko, and Ukraine’s national deputy, Vladimir Bondarenko, have similar issues. "In recent times, there have been numerous appeals about attempts to acquire parts of the territories belonging to the International Children's Centre, Artek." This was actually the question of Yuri Carmazin to some extent. So, briefly on this question. The boundaries of the land area given to Artek are 208 hectares in constant use for statutory activity, and this has been made an act of permanent use of land since December 25, 1996. And I can tell you that the boundaries haven't changed in this time of year. The facts regarding the acquisition of part of the territory or the privatization of the property are not currently known. Although, frankly, that was the effort. The work of the Supreme Council Committee on Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism has played an important role in not allowing this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u15	Gennady Samofalov, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u16	Gennady Samofalov, Party of Regions, faction “Regions of Ukraine”. Yuri Aleksevich, it's not a question, it's a wish. I visited Gurzuf for the first time in the past year, Artek, indeed, is the pride of Ukraine, this is an international person of Ukraine, but unfortunately this person may be harmed at any time. I drew attention to the quality of seawater. After all, children all go there to get better in the sun and in the water. The water's green. I started to wonder why. It's a collector, clean-up facilities were built 40 years ago, and today the village of Gurzufsky, all the sewers, the dirt goes there. I know that there is a project that costs about 200 million bracelets to make changes to the budget that will be considered this year, some amounts to start these works. [[It was created four years ago.]] First. And the second problem, I think, is very serious, very much dirt comes from passing ships. I think we also need to see if we can get some security to control these dumps that go and go to the children's beaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u17	Thank you for the offer, we will definitely look at it, because I can really confirm that this water quality problem on the coast and, in particular, at Artec, there is a collector's cleaning system that is very old. And there were a lot of suggestions about how to modernize it, which would replace it, but they didn't find support in the state or in the local budgets before. But this is an important question, and we will definitely look at it and find the opportunity to do it in the next few years, after all, because it's health, primarily children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u18	Letters, please, questions. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, a similar question to the MP's faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. What is the funding machine for the budget costs of the complex Artek reconstruction, its modern technology, and the creation of adequate conditions for recovery, no less than 40,000 children a year? Timoshenko's faction adds, "Who's funding Artek," what kind of budget has been invested in its development in the last five years? On this issue, in 2003, Artek started a complex reconstruction, a cost of construction work, just the first line, which is 188.8 million dollars. At my own expense and commercial banks' credit resources -- 47 million dollars, from the state budget of Ukraine -- I've already said that in 2004, 26 million dollars were allocated for reconstruction, with 140 million dollars needed. For 2005, 30 million dollars are available for this purpose. In its time, the Government's management of matters was requesting the leaders of leading banking structures, large industrial enterprises and Ukrainian companies: to provide the International Children's Centre, Artek, with irreversible financial assistance to complete the construction. Such assistance was provided. At the expense of the Crossroads, a new school building was put into operation and equipped with modern equipment totalling 60 million dollars. The stock company Skretschflot passed on a new stroller. To rebuild and equip the facility, 5.29 million dollars came from the Odessa accessories plant of Donetsk and Transnistrian Railways, Blackmore Naftogazu, Minpezprojekt. In addition, equipment and inventory have been transferred to $387.2 thousand, including six buses, seven special vehicles, sports inventory, and computer technology. It's short for someone who's invested aside from the state budget, Artek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u19	Please, Yuri Alexiyovich, in writing. Was that written? Then Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u20	Yuri Aleksevich, you're the minister who's starting, so maybe it's not as much a question as a wish. As a person, I have been concerned with the rehabilitation of children and all these years of the delegation, and I would like to continue to cooperate with your ministry. But there is one problem that I would like to draw your attention to. This is the time when money is spent from Gosbudget for travel. They said in their report that you were planning to conduct travel tenders in February with the money of Gosbudget. All past years have ended with money coming in June and sometimes in July. This contributed to the dissonance in the search for children of those concessional categories that should be recovered from public money, which in fact sometimes even lubricated the overall effect. So I have a wish for you as a minister, as a person who wants to achieve something, please start with what Minfin has to pay in accordance with the approved schedule, because in July, they are already very late.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u21	I thank you for your request and this offer. We are tasking ourselves with making the change start on June 1. Because the experience of the previous year shows that from the delay in conducting travel tenders. For example, last year, the change began on June 10th, with 80 percent of the facilities. So if we can actually make and fulfill your wishes, and the change starts on June 1st, it's actually going to be four changes in 18 days, and it's going to be able to increase by at least 15 percent the number of children who can recover from the previous year. That's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u22	This is not only Vasil Ivanovich’s wish but also your prerogative. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u23	A committee on youth policy, physical culture, sport and tourism, similar to the issue of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour: "How is the government going to meet the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on urgent measures for the State Support of the International Children's Centre "Artec" and the celebration of the 80th anniversary of its establishment with regard to the development and submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the project of the National Development Programme "Artec" 2005-2015, as well as the preparation and commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the founding date?" And the question of the Socialist Committee: "What prevented the government from developing and submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a project of the state-wide development programme "Artec" for 2005-2015?" That's the question. The draft Presidential Decree on the preparation and observance of the 80th anniversary of the International Children's Centre, Artek, provides for the creation of an appropriate organizational committee and a series of organizational and practical measures to mark this date. The project will be brought to the attention of the President of Ukraine following the completion of the creation of the Ukrainian Secretaryate. A family mine, young people with interested central executive authorities, has started work on the development of a national programme for the International Children’s Centre, Artek. Under the requirement of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Holding Targeted Programmes, the state-wide programs for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are approved by law. Since the drafting of the law requires more time, economic justification and harmony. In accordance with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the deadline for the submission of the programme was extended to April 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u24	Please, Tamara Proskuratova, oral question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Minister! You and your faction have been criticized for the negative practice of financing summer rest arrangements and treating children and adolescents, especially that financing these measures began from the second quarter, which did not allow quality work to be done in the preparation of health facilities - the establishment of children's rest until the summer health period. Is your government able to break this practice this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u26	If I may, I did not really understand the question. Is "perceptive" or "capable government"? Thank you for asking. Just such a question was asked by Nadrag, a national MP. This is indeed the task that we are tasking ourselves with for the health season for children to begin in a timely, June 1st, so that the tender commission will work as efficiently, transparently and openly as possible, and all of the planned costs in the State Budget for the recovery of children this year, and this amount is 702 million dollars, all of which are aimed at the recovery of children, and this would allow for another 15 percent increase in the number of children who would recover. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u27	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u28	A committee of social policy and work. As is being done by the government to recommend paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Supreme Decree of 3 November 2004 on urgent measures for State support to Artek. [[concerning the granting of national status to the International Children's Centre, Artek]] That's already a question. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, have similar questions: "What steps are being taken by the government to ensure that not only children whose parents are able to obtain a journey of 500 to 600 conditional units, but also an increase in the number of children who are recovering from budget costs, such as low-income families, orphans, creative children?" And the question of the Health Committee is, how much is available for today's rest in Artec for orphans and deprived of parental care, as well as for children in the category affected by the Chernobyl AES accident? That's the question. The National Budget of Ukraine provides funding for the rehabilitation of children in the above categories every year under budget classification code 1110. State administration of matters as an authority authorized to manage Artek's assets has concluded an agreement with Artek on the basis of which he purchases trips to the facility and distributes them to the family and youth authorities. In the current year, 10,000 92 trips were purchased at the expense of the funds, including four thousand, 935 trips. In the current year, 10,000 92 trips will be purchased, of which four 935 trips will be free of charge. The rest of the trip will be given to children for 20, 30, and 50 percent of the cost. In line with the provisions on the order in which children are selected and sent to Artec, free travel is intended for the purpose of directing orphans, children deprived of parental care and children who are assigned to the category affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And in this regard, I think we will be able to control, regardless of the reform of the State Administration, or we will be able to translate "Artec" into the Ministry of Youth, Family and Children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u29	Please, Nightshenko, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u30	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Democratic Ukraine. Dear reporter! Well, first of all, the procedure. There is a request for payment materials to be given to deputies, to be distributed in English, in the national language. Unfortunately, not everyone knows English, but there's no Ukrainian word. The other one. Yuri Alexiyovich, you haven't revealed the Artek activity enough, in my opinion. I have a question like that. Have you followed the principle of openness and a fair distribution of budget or travel, as you might call it, throughout the territory? For example, the Suma region. Is it not divided? Are not singled - out single - parent families? As a national MP, I never got to know. You have now received 19 million 440 thousand in the 2005 budget. How are they divided? The other one. How much money is involved from other children whom you are healing? And the third. How you coordinate the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. The only thing I didn't understand was what you received in a foreign language. Oh, is this about "Artec"? This is an unofficial document, which is a document that is distributed as information material to the International Children's Centre.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u32	Yes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u33	As for other issues, I understand very well your concern and with similar concerns could have occurred exactly five days ago, and the problems that you raised, they are indeed very important, and the task that is being set before the Ministry today: this is also an organization, and coordination with other ministries, which are budgeted for the recovery of children and for the establishment of a clear, transparent tender system, to identify those institutions that will be purchased at the expense of the travel budget, are also tasks. What's more, the task is to get this tender to take place as soon as possible. All these tasks today are in front of the Ministry and I believe that we can do this year, really make the system as transparent, open and healthier as possible for a much larger number of children in line with the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u34	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u35	Letters: Special Committee on Privatization, Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood: Have the changes been made to the order for the selection and placement of children to Artek, which was confirmed in 1999 by Min's order of the young number 47 family under its criteria long overdue? And the Health Committee: which are planned and used by the Government to make appropriate changes to the legal and regulatory framework for improving the organization of rest and the recovery of children in the summer of 2005 and the further development of the Artek? Whether there has been a change in the order in which children are selected and sent to Artec, which was approved in 99th year by the Ministry of Youth and the family, according to what has been stated in this. How old is it? Thank you for asking. In order to improve the order of the selection and placement of children to the International Children's Centre, Artek, and to bring them into compliance with the requirements of legislation, the new text of the document has been recognized as having lost the validity of the Ukrainian Ministry's Order on Family and Youth Affairs since 1999 as number 47. In the new regulation, clearly defined criteria are in line with the requirements of legislation that allow children to receive free or interest travel, which determines the responsibility of officials for violating the requirements of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u36	Please, Mikhail Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u37	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Minister Yuri Alexiovich! So it turns out that the main focus in your report, and in the questions you're being asked, is on giants like Artek and other analog objects of childhood and youth summer rest. But I don’t know if you remember because you’re a young man and a little older people remember very well that we had a school vacation network all over Ukraine. And you said very well that you and your ministries would pay attention to those objects that do not separate children from their parents, or localities. Thus, do you not think that of the five programs that the Prime Minister is to present to your ministry?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. That's why this attention is being given to the International Children's Centre, Artek, because there was a problem with it. And in the summer the issue was raised by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism with how to preserve this truly unique facility for Ukraine, for Ukrainian children, how to make it a facility that could represent Ukraine in international relations. How to help Artec get out of the difficult situation in which it ended in the summer of last year, when it received enormous debt and huge debts, which gave rise to individual, clean hands to claim either to the territory or to the building or to the property of this complex, which claimed to be seven kilometres of coastline, which refers to "Artec," which is why the Supreme Council Committee's Day of Government was initiated to prevent this situation, in order to help the International Children's Centre, Artek, to get out of the position it was in. As far as you're concerned. So here, indeed, is here, on the one hand, and complaining that so-called school-based health care facilities are being used. Because there are certain problems, such as problems, especially in cities, in large cities, in Kiev, there is some healing on the asphalt. But on the other hand, it's organized recreation, it's child control, it's their ability to get new knowledge, it's to develop. Moreover, this percentage in cities is not very high. And most of these preschool facilities, they're in the district centers where it's all happening in nature, by the rivers. So it's obvious that, let's say the total number of children who have recovered from such facilities is very large, more than 40 percent. And I think we're going to support that system with the Ministry. Until we are able to heal all 100 percent of Ukrainian children in quality sanatoriums, resorts, health facilities. We're going to look for different forms. And the important form here is, once again, the involvement of social children's youth organizations. And here the Ministry and the government will help these organizations to make maximum use of both bases and state support, and to support various authorities and local self-government to carry out such activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u39	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u40	The Special Privatization Monitoring Commission: "Did the previous government ensure a state of 1.01.05 full inventory of social facilities and in particular children's health facilities, which are owned by enterprises of all forms of ownership and development based on its restoration programme, conservation of these facilities and the creation of the necessary conditions for their effective functioning?" Thus, with the aim of maintaining a network of children’s health facilities as early as 2003, Min’s family, young men and women, together with local executives, had an inventory of children’s health facilities. According to the inventory, a list of children's health institutions of state and municipal property has been prepared, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at 141-R, which provides for their refusal to sell, re-profile, and closure. In December, clarifications were made. A total of 1010 children's health facilities, including 451 state and municipal property, 517 owned by labour groups, 27 private persons and 15 owned by foreign states. In order to preserve the profile of the child health institution of Min family, young people, together with the Tax Administration, have been prepared and sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on child health institutions, such as the Ukrainian law on the order of payment of taxes owed to budgets and public trust funds and the law on the restoration of the debtor’s payability or the recognition of his bankruptcy. But this work will continue the same way, and no children’s health care facility will be retrained and children will be deprived of any children’s institution and will be able to recover today. In addition, we will develop a plan to increase the number and quality of children’s health facilities that are in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u41	Please, Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u42	Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Well, first of all, I want to make it clear: the Artek Children's International Center is not in the lease, it's in state property. Unfortunately, it's just that his, uh, excuse me, "grab" is a question. But he's state property. Yuri Alexiyovich, I want to raise a very important question, this is a question that concerns the exemption from VAT on the cost of children's travel. It's a very sharp question, and we've proposed in the previous steps, and we should also consider the relevant documents in order to deal with this issue in a timely manner, because we know that last year we only released VAT travel from VAT last July. I would like to ask you a question about the young minister: are you preparing an appropriate bill for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this issue in due time?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I actually questioned why, because in my report I mentioned that the State Budget Act 2005 was exempt from the value added tax. So in this case, there's no problem for this year, it's been removed by the State Budget Act. With regard to other possibilities, or other preferences that may be granted by the State on children's health facilities, I think that we will find here a common language between the government, in this case the Ministry of Youth, Families and Children, and our professional committee of the Supreme Council, so that all issues will be resolved in a timely, effective, coordinated and with maximum efficiency, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u44	Yuri Anatolyevich, I urge you to remain alert. There is this article in the budget, but the budget will be reviewed in March. That is, do not allow this article to disappear from the budget. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u45	It's a written question. Science and Education Committee: "What steps are being taken by the Government of Ukraine regarding the use, in fact, of the Youth Guard Children's Centre as a whole state centre for the health and rest of children throughout the year? Does the Government of Ukraine agree with the proposals for the return of the Youth Guard Children's Centre to a list of state-funded institutions funded by the State Budget?" Actually, that was a similar question from a national MP, who was spoken orally. We're going to work on this and we're going to find the most acceptable option in order for the Youth Guard Youth Center to perform its tasks qualitatively and to the fullest extent and to carry out its primary mission of curing children. There are several options, several projects. And all it takes is the will of the government to do it, and the will and support of the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u46	Please, Anatoly Rahansky, ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u47	Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria, Democratic Ukraine, MPs. Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of Strategically Important Ministry for the State. Do you not think it would be necessary, after hearing this important question today, to work on it, taking into account the proposals and in the April months to report to the Supreme Council, especially by paying attention to the treatment of children with disabilities and those affected by the accident at the Chernobyl station in specialized children's institutions, which are now only 20 percent used. You were talking about finding something, some new methods, treatments. You don't have to look for anything. Unfortunately, these questions are not highlighted in the information and analysis report or in your report. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I am convinced that this is to be done and, if there is will and there will be a proposal to hold an appropriate Government Day in April and to consider this once again on the Supreme Council, I think that by April we will be even more ready to report on the state of health institutions today. Eupatoria. Obviously it's the most unique children's health center and what you're saying, it is. Most sanitariums, many sanitariums are used by 20 percent, but in any case not entirely, it's a task today as a government. the government of Ukraine, as well as the local Crimean government, to create conditions to fill these institutions year-round. But here the question is the same as the frame, and the question of infrastructure, the question of the equipment of all these institutions, their material and technical state. These are all issues that can be resolved only by joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u49	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u50	Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism What measures are planned to be taken with regard to the cost of children's travel, in particular how the requirement of the Supreme Council's decision to conduct free sanitary and epidemiological, technical, fire-fighting examination of children's health care facilities for prevention, medical examination and care of children and personnel will be implemented. Ukraine's State Budget 2005 provides, and this is confirmed again, once again, by the exemption from the added cost of travel sales and recovery operations, which will significantly cost the cost of travel. However, part five of article 68 of this law states that in 2005 the land payment benefits defined in paragraphs three and four of the first part of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Payment are suspended. In accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 15. 05.2000 on the approval of a list of payment services that may be provided by the State Fire Protection Units of the Ministry of Justice for the verification of the condition of fire is referred to as payment services. By decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 11/07 C.E. 02,987 on amendments to Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 1138 on the approval of the list of paid services provided in public health institutions and higher health institutions, previous preventive and medical examinations at the time of admission to work, as well as appropriate periodic and preventive medical examinations related to paid services. By a decree of 23.05 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the list of occupations of production and workers’ organizations are subject to mandatory preventive medical examinations. The second paragraph states that mandatory medical examinations are carried out at the expense of employers. For staff of budgetary institutions and organizations, medical examinations are carried out by treatment and prevention institutions on the basis of budgetary allocations and maintenance. The thresholds for medical examinations at medical establishments are confirmed by the Kyiv and Sebastopol city authorities. However, in 2004, according to the letters of the Sanitary Epidemiology Service and the State Fire Control Units of Child Health Care, preventive medical examination and health care for children and staff. Technical and fire testing of children’s health facilities was carried out on a free basis for the exclusion of additional expertise for private children’s health facilities. In the current year, these institutions have not yet determined how to resolve these issues, but we, as the Ministry, will insist that all these tests, tests for children's health facilities, take place as well as the previous year on a free basis. This was not an additional reason for traveling for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u51	Please, Solomatin Yuri, the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u52	The Communist faction. Dear colleague, I was somewhat unable to understand the materials that the Government had prepared for us and signed by Dmitri Tobacco, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. By the way, where is our current Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Tomenko? He'd, he'd have to be here to discuss it -- that's by the way. I couldn't figure out how much an average trip costs? And what is the minimum and maximum cost. I counted here, counted the number of children by budget assignment, and went to an average of 230 dollars. It's a very strange figure. What you can say about the average price, the minimum and the maximum cost of travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u53	So if we take the figures of the previous year for travel costs, the average cost was 32 bracelets per day. The maximum cost of travel is in Artec and it was 122 bracelets. In time, yes. Accordingly, you can calculate the cost of travel for 18 days. As I said before, some percent of children get these tickets free of charge, part of 20, 30, 50 percent. The task is likely to be the cost of these routes. Because the amount, even the average, that comes out in 18 days of rest, is not available to every Ukrainian family today. But on the other hand, the government will do its best to ensure that in a very short period of time even the daily price of 122 bracelets is not a problem for any Ukrainian family. By raising wages and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u54	But you know, wages are rising, prices are rising. So keep the price on the way to the previous level. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u55	The Ukrainian Company's deputy faction. The government reports an increase in the number of healthy children each year. But this increase is mainly due to children who seem to have recovered from preschool camps, or asphalt. At the same time, many health workers, including camps, work for one or two months, even though they have every opportunity to work all year round. Why does the government not respond to the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue?" So I can repeat the numbers that I've already called. So in the summer of 2004, 2 million people were cured. 677 thousand. Children of school age, of which 1 million 269.5 thousand. Children, i.e. 46 per cent, are provided with health care in rural health care facilities and sanatoriums. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for 363.7 thousand. In the day camps. In 2004, 41,000 children’s sanatoriums, out-of-town establishments, were rehabilitated. 535 children, 24,000 of them. 641 during June-August. The available number of beds provides a simultaneous stay of 10 grand in summer. 498 children. At the same time, the existing database of out - of -town and sanitation facilities can provide a stay of 225.5,000. Children. Last year, 686.5 thousand were healed on its base. Children who worked for 67 days with a function of 80 days. 36,000 sanatoriums. 288 beds-of-the-city were healed by 583,000. Children. The Ukrainian Children's Health and Recreation Act clearly defines the concept of "rest" and "healing." School camps are referred to recreational facilities that provide care for children, their meaningful leisure, the development of creative skills, and their interests. Today in Ukraine, he has already provided this information, so I cannot really agree with the question that the government is not responding to the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I think that the new government will still have these decisions to be implemented in a qualitative and effective manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u56	Please, Puzakov Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u57	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Dear Yuri Aleksevich! We have maintained the Brigantina pioneer camp in the Kirovograd region in the Novo archangel region since Soviet times, because the camp is run by Communist Nikolai Nikolaevich Nakonecny, who has never really been a thief and will not do what the President is now doing, and the government is paying very serious attention. And I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to the Kirovograd region and to really visit this camp. But I want to say that the camp could be even better if the director were not distracted, and very often, to be beaten, in the full sense of the word, the finances and the maintenance of the camp, and the healing of children. I would also like to take into account the request of the camp director to draw attention to the failure to improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u58	I thank you for inviting me to this really nice place. I fully agree with your statement that the system, when it was stolen, when there was corruption, would go on and on and on every day. And these camps will become more and more in Ukraine, where, indeed, quality managers, quality managers will think, not about how to steal, but about how to make a sanatorium or camp even better, and as many children as possible, to engage and recover in time for this camp to function. And in principle, in any area, whether it's a camp or a sanatorium, it can work year-round, that we still don't have fully functioning in Ukraine. And that's also one of the tasks that we're doing. As for the question that really spends a lot of time on the relationship with the authorities on any issue that relates to the normal provision of activities -- in this case -- of any enterprise, there is a very clear position of government. It's set out in the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Activities, so as to simplify and give as much time as possible to any entrepreneur, the director, to develop his business, not to spend, not to beat his knee in the reception desks of officials of different levels, different rank. It's an assignment, I think we can handle it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u59	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u60	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood A similar question is the Committee on Questions. Oh, two similar questions. "Is it possible, in the opinion of the government, to provide adequate rest and rehabilitation for children at the expense of the State Budget in the summer of 2005? And does this year’s planned budget funding meet the real needs for children’s rest and recovery? How much is it planned to spend on a single child’s diet for one day in rest and recovery facilities for the current year? Is the amount appropriate, according to the government?" Thus, Ukraine’s State Budget Act 2005 provides for a cost of $171.1 million for centralized recreation and child recovery. The expenditure will be aimed at curing the welfare categories of children, including orphans, children deprived of parental care for children with disabilities, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, children with many children and low-income children, families. Children of military and internal affairs personnel who have died in service, children with diversified behavior, children of dead miners, children who are in dispossession, talented, and gifted children. Costs budgeted in the 2005 State Health Campaign account for about 21 percent of the total projected funding. Covering the necessary costs for the rehabilitation of children of the pension categories is expected to be effected at the expense of local budgets, social welfare funds, temporary disability losses, parental and other costs involved. According to the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund, the temporary loss of incapacity to cover the costs of children's health care facilities in part of the cost of the product set in accordance with the daily standards will be up to 19 dollars per child per day. For children’s health facilities located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Nineteen dollars a day in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 18 dollars a day in other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u61	Please, Andrew Poliyet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u62	Thank you. Yuri Alekseevich, well, I've already received an answer to my question. But I would still like to specify it. In the report, I think that the very impressive rate of child health in so-called school camps is over 46 per cent, almost 50 per cent of the total recovery. In principle, I do not agree with the majority of these institutions. These camps are specifically located in rural areas, and I believe they are quite sufficient in cities. Do you think that being in your own school's backyard during the summer can be considered a cure that actually adds to the child's health or is it just a figure to raise the overall rate of healthy children? In principle, I don't think that if there are two categories, that it can even be considered a vacation, because, first of all, for a child there is no psychological discharge, he spends most of his life in school, not to mention healing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. Actually, I've tried to answer it, it's sounded a few times in this room. You can agree that this is certainly not a cure, but that's why today's bill on the healing and rest of children, where there's a definition of "healing" and "resting." And in this case, these preschool camps are offered to refer to the rest category. But most importantly, in these camps, if children aren't thrown out, children aren't inattentive at this point. It's obviously not the best rest, but it's organized, it's child care, it's meaningful leisure, it's the development of their creative abilities. So, let's say the days they spend in the camps don't go to waste for their future, and they don't get into any trouble. So, as one option, when looking for a form of how children whose parents are unable to provide vacation travel in more acceptable places have been found, a form has been found, and it has been in place for years, of preschool camps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u64	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u65	What measures are being taken by the government to improve international cooperation in the area of recreation and the healing of certain children. Thus, with a view to arranging for children’s health and recreation abroad, a draft decree has been prepared for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the arrangements for children to travel abroad on a journey to health and rest, which has already been considered on a government committee. In addition, Min’s family was organized to raise 100 children from Iraq, 600 children from Beslan. In turn, 3,000 children, Ukrainian children, were resting abroad. And literally yesterday a letter came from UNESCO that was ready to sign an agreement to grant the status of Artek to use it for the purposes and tasks that UNESCO was tasking. I'm convinced that a given agreement will also allow new technologies to be involved before, in this case, Artec and will allow additional costs to be involved through purchased travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u66	Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonschina Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, please tell me whether your Ministry will continue the line of the previous Government regarding the further development of the Azo-Black Sea Region as a basic issue of child rest development and the creation of appropriate conditions for treatment with parents? And second, in your report, you said that more than 100 children’s health facilities in 2004 did not work in Ukraine. Why does the government intend to resume the activities of only 15 of the people you have marked, and when will the turn of others come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. As for your first question, I think the government intends to continue its previous practice of curing children along with parents in the Azores region. As for the second question, it is not, for example, the task of the government to rebuild a facility. As I said before, after the 2003 inventory, it was discovered from 1,100,114 children’s health facilities that did not work, which were in bad condition. In one year, the local budget, the funds involved, and the state budget were primarily used to restore 26 facilities. This year it is planned, there is such an action that 13 more institutions will be operational. But to be honest with you, to restore others, that's a lot of money. And here it is impossible for government funds or government funds to resolve their recovery. First of all, it's about investing, and it's important to get the private equity involved in rebuilding these institutions. Maybe someday the unions will be able to work in this direction. But today they are not as strong as they are at work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u69	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u70	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood Is the government planning measures to develop an appropriate market for recreation and recovery services as well as to improve the quality of such recreation? It is the draft Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation that provides for the development of state social standards in the area of child health and rest, which will help improve the quality of health and rest services, and create an appropriate market for these services. In addition, in 2005, the entire Ukrainian health - care fair provided information to the population about the activities of children’s health facilities and the services they provide. Such advertising requires that children’s health authorities pay attention to the level and quality of service. Conducting professional and specialized changes in children’s health and recreation facilities, during which children receive a range of services designed to develop certain abilities and interests, will also contribute not only to improving their quality but also to expanding their range of health services. In addition, conducting a review of the children’s health - care competition, encouraging the results of this exercise stimulates the activities of children’s health care institutions to improve the quality of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u71	Yes, please, respectable colleagues talking on their cell phone, a little quieter or outside the session room. Please, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u72	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region. Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, I may have listened, but I still want you to come back to this question. Is the new Ministry planning to inventory the pioneer camps? I mean, let's say, "Tokmak" Tokmak district, the intercom was a pioneer camp called Tereshkow Chicken. Trades are coming, or maybe they've already sold it for private property, said, well, if it's an effective owner, it's going to be profitable, and when it's in this property, it's not profitable. I don't understand. Why is it not profitable in government property, and when it is in private, it is profitable? Maybe we're not hearing something right. That's one question. And the second question. I would like to ask, ‘ Will we end this vicious practice, such as, say, my electorate, my parents, in order to heal the children, so that the state can help because my parents are not able to pay? ’ I'm talking to the Ministry, the Ministry has moved to the area, the area to the area, to those who have addressed me. And you have to, as they say, clap your eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. I was talking about inventory, and the changes were made last year before the Cabinet of Ministers decreed not to re-profile the facilities. So I think on this particular issue, we're going to do a background check and find out what the situation is, and we're going to do everything we can to make sure that this facility doesn't lose its profile, and we're going to continue to work to heal the children, what the problems are today with its activity. This practice that you're talking about, I'm also aware of, and there's a mission today for the Ministry to create a system where especially children in need of recovery are included in this list of defenseless categories, and they were able to get better and rest in the summer. Of course, it is a task for every child to have that right, but so far there are no adequate resources in the State budget, and more so in the local budgets for that task. Here, of course, without parents starting to get richer and having more money, this may be the best and most effective way out of a child’s recovery. But, again, here's the state policy in the fall is working hard enough to make every year the number of children who have been able to recover, and more so, at the expense of the state budget, it's growing. I grew up depending on the increase in the income of the State budget. I think this practice, it will be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u74	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u75	Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Ukrainian National Deputy Manchulenko, similar question: "What measures are being taken by the government to expand the health care network and to provide timely and full funding for the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005, to provide social guarantees and targeted state aid, to strengthen the health component in the health care system? Whether or not measures are being taken to strengthen the health camps of the medical component" is the question of the People's Deputies of Manchulenka. According to State Statistics, the network of children’s health facilities is expanding. In fact, this is a task, given that there is still an increase in the number of children's health care facilities of a kind that provides a range of health-care services designed to improve children's health and prevent diseases. Thus, this component will be continuously strengthened, a health component in health care facilities, so that health care is provided with quality. And I think there's going to be joint actions here, and the ministries of youth, family and children, and the Ministry of Health. It's important here that we re-supply and re-supply the quality of these facilities, provide medical supplies, drugs, as well as quality personnel who will be responsible for medical care from health camps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u76	Please, George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u77	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Yuri Alexiyovich, one wish. The diagrams shown here have been taken since 1995 to calculate the network of health camps. I wish we had taken it since 1990, when there were over 30,000, and now there are 19. It's a wish. And to be the goal of some kind of reaching this 30,000. And that's the question. You named 280 million out-of-budget health in the same diagrams in 2005. You know what it's like. I can't believe it. the source, so in reviewing the budget in March of this year, here, Adam Ivanovich, Catherine Seminovna said that you should not lose the VAT that is now in the budget and that these 280 million be written in the budget, and so this is just a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u78	I thank you for asking. In fact, why have calculations been made since 1995? Because, by 1995, no one had done such a calculation in Ukraine, so in 1995, for the first time, estimates were made on how many such health facilities are actually in Ukraine. You've seen that there's been a huge decline in the work of these facilities in the next 1996 and, let's say, today for 2004 we've managed to go to one more health facility than it was in 1995. Of course, when compared to previous years, this is a significant difference in number. With regard to the changes to the State Budget, we will of course control that, even if the funds that have been put in place are not collected today or taken away. from the State budget, by virtue of, say, the events that took place during the last year -- the electoral campaign -- when a large number of government funds served the election rather than working for their direct purpose. As for the increase, I think today's government day will help to establish that figure, which is now in the 2005 State Budget. and a possible increase in this number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u79	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u80	Science and Education Committee. In recent years there has been a negative practice in financing summer rest arrangements and in curing children and adolescents. Generally, funding for these measures began from the second quarter, which prevented quality work in the preparation of health facilities for the recovery period. Is the government able to break this negative practice in 2005? This question has already been asked. The Deputies' Group of Centers. Taking into account the cost of the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment, only partial funding is provided for the maintenance of elderly health care, nutrition, health care, and cultural care of children, the proposal to consider the allocation of allocations from the local or district budget of the area by the sector's fiscal union, which maintains the balance of the old child's health facilities, assimilations necessary for the maintenance of DOS and preparation for the health year. So this is a question of the deputy group "Centre." According to operational data in 2005, the cost of children's health care facilities in part of the cost of food supplies in line with the daily standards approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of 22.11.2004 at the expense of the fund can be up to 19 bracelets in the ARC and 18 bracelets in other regions, as well as in addition to the treatment and cultural care of children up to 2 bracelets per person per day. In 2004, the Social Insurance Fund, with temporary loss of employment, was allocated 95.5 million dollars to the health care company, including insurance companies that have children’s health care facilities in place to prepare them for the summer health season. The Fund's decision at the Sevastopol City Department was to conduct an experiment on the introduction of a new funding mechanism for a child health company, on the basis of the funds of the Travel Fund to children's health facilities for the full cost, and on the subsequent compensation of 10% or 30% of its value to insurers. As a result of the experiment at the meeting of the Fund’s government, a decision was made to continue the funding mechanism for the children’s health company at the Sevastopol City Department of the Fund in 2005. The Fund’s Board entrusted the Fund’s Social Security Payments Commission by February 15, 2005 with generalizing proposals by the Fund’s branch offices on the possibility of applying travel conditions to children’s health facilities at the expense of the Fund’s full cost. Funding arrangements in 2005 for the rehabilitation of children at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment are planned to be considered at the next government meeting of the Fund. At the same time, in line with the 2004 - 205 General Agreement, a decision has been taken not to increase the burden on the Social Partnership Labour Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u81	Yes, please, Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear reporter, in one of the answers, they said that parents would become richer and pay for travel costs. You see, there was old power in this principle. The old Cabinet of Ministers also handled the issue. And you have to bring something new. Why were people marinating here for two months on the field of Independence in the cold, starving there, and carrying other cataclysms? So this is how it's going to be done again? I think there's little you've started using that term right now, that slogan that you went through that time, that the rich will help the poor. So I can see that the rich in this situation that you expect should help children and provide free medical care. This is the key to which we need to focus first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u83	We're set up. The only thing that surprises me is why you don’t agree to make your parents richer. Don't worry, it'll be fine. So I support your offer of child-free medical care. Believe that today the tasks of the government are not to declare, but to do so quickly, effectively. That is why we put these tasks ahead of us. I think that as soon as the Supreme Council gets a plan, committees and national MPs get a plan of action that will be in line with that program of the Cabinet of Ministers that was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and each national MP can make his or her amendment to this program of action that will be approved, that will take effect and be approved annually, and that every year will be summed up, I think it's only after that that that will be possible to say whether the people who stood on the ground during the period of the Orange Revolution, or whether their desire, their faith is fulfilled or not, only after a year of effective activity of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government. So obviously, I'm more inclined not to stand for an hour and a half on the Supreme Council stand, but to do specific things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u84	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u85	Letters. Deputies Group "Centre": "Consider the possibility of providing 100 grand in financial assistance. a bracelet to prepare for the healing season in a children’s camp called Volody Dubinina. Children in all areas of the Dnipropetrovsk and Dnipropetrovsk region are healed by the camp, and children in poor families and children deprived of parental care are given annual trips. Over the past 15 years, the material and technical base of the camp has not been renewed. The number of children who can be accepted by the camp will increase from 600 to 720 per season." So Ukraine's State Budget 2005 Act does not provide for financial support for children's health facilities. The children’s health camp, Volody Dubinina, is in the collective form of property for the heads of the professions of education in the Yellow District of Dnipropetrovska. In the summer of 2004, the Social Insurance Fund office directed 24,000 children to recovery. Money to prepare for the healing season and 10.3,000. Money to compensate for the cost of eating, cultivating, and medical care of children. Three health - care changes were made and 695 children of education and health workers in Dnipropetrovska were cured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u86	Yes, thank you, sit down, please, because the list has run out. Baptism you first went through, let's hope that the next report will be more optimistic. Yeah, let's get to the report. The word comes from the committee head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Honorable colleagues and not very numerous members of the government! All right. You know, litmus paper is about the health of our children. And we see, unfortunately, what's the attitude and vice-premier just but assigned from humanitarian issues, and other ministers. This question concerns Ukraine’s future. If we continue to do so, we can do neither the days of the government nor the days of the government, there will be nothing good in us. First of all, I would like to point out the specific work done by the Ministry of Family, Children and Youth in recent years on the organization and rehabilitation of children. Three years ago we cured 20 percent of the children, now, you see, almost halfway there. It's not the perfect number. We can force everyone to work for the health of our children. I want to wish a new department that we could keep this pace and this work that we've been working on with the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine so that they wouldn't stop, and vice versa, we could move on in a progressive way. The discussion of this issue at the beginning of February shows concern for the Ukrainian national deputies about the success of this year’s health campaign. By the way, folk wisdom tells us that they prepare the sun in the summer and the chariot in the winter. It is worth reminding us that we have recently agreed on the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 3 November and 14 December on Artek and on the summation of the child's recovery -- and voted accordingly by 286 people's deputies and 364 people's deputies. In doing so, we have proposed to the government, the executives, the authorities of local self-government to take concrete action to address the urgent issues of organization and the healing of our children. But today, unfortunately, why did we bring this up again? Such a specific decision was made in this room, and it gave each of us an assignment, but unfortunately, this decision has remained under dress for the time being. First of all, the funds for these goals, which are foreseen in the State Budget for the current year, are marginal. In particular, to heal orphans, deprived of parental care, disabled children, children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, children of many children, low-income families, children of internal affairs workers and military personnel who died in service, children of dead miners. And to heal the children of these categories — our sacred duty — to remember those who are no longer alive. But I have a very strong hope that by making changes to Ukraine's 2005 State Budget Act, it's just that it's necessary to anticipate it. We the next time, I emphasize, we're proposing to the government for these categories that I called, to set up a government order, because we have a specific number of these children who need the attention of the state. And besides the state, these children can't be helped. Why is it such an unwillingness to help orphans, the Chernobylites, the children of the dead miners, the militias, the military? Well, why is it so heartless? For two years in a row, we've been talking about this like no one can hear it. What other specific questions also concern us today? There's no mechanism in place to pay for energy supplies, utilities, transportation, trade services. That is what we have fixed in our decision! But this decision is ignored. And the heads of the children's institutions are calling on us with concern: how will we meet the requirement of an appropriate decision by the Ukrainian Parliament on the free conduct of the sanitary, technical, fire-fighting examination of these health facilities. In turn, local self - government authorities have also not received an answer to the question of what will be involved and whether they have even begun to develop a mechanism to compensate for the decline in local budgets in connection with the granting of such benefits. In general, in these years no government has been able to develop and implement an effective mechanism to stimulate the activities of children’s health institutions. And it works like this, it's a healing period -- from the bar back there he dropped something and forgot that there's a government decision. I want to focus on some of the issues relating to the legal and regulatory framework for regulating relations in this area. And this is the task of both the Ministry of Children, Family and Youth, and the Ministry of Health, and our committee of profile. According to the number of documents issued -- and today there are dozens -- we're going ahead of all of Europe on these issues, but this base is unstable, the rules of the game change too often depending on who heads the Cabinet of Ministers or the Ministry, which has a legitimate negative impact on the activities of children's health institutions, children's specialized sanatoriums. And from this point of view, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has defined its position and recommended that the government develop an appropriate bill, strengthen state control over the maintenance of the network of fixed children's health facilities. This room emphasized the inadmissibility, the inadmissibility of the liquidation of the listed facilities, their changes in profile, the transfer of mortgages, or debts. Even an appropriate commission was given to the Attorney General’s Office to carry out an inspection in the areas involved. But today lawlessness has not stopped, it continues. It has become a bad tradition for individual entrepreneurs to try to improve their well-being by taking into account the health of children and adolescents at all costs, even if this is against the law, to acquire ownership, if not the building itself, of a land plot in a child's health facility to build their own choirs. Which is worth the whole operation of trying to change the form of the property of the only sanatorium." Under Odessa, where children are being treated with scoliosis, and Odessa itself has been in the fight for several years now for the Young Guard Children's Health Center for preserving its status, but its local authorities and government have not come to the realization of this issue, and we have already received a telegram on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the land belonging to the Youth Guard is virtually allocated to build new owners of their assets. And by the beginning of the healing season, there was plenty of time left for the government to recognize, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 14 December 2004 on the recovery of children in the summer of 2005, the central executive authority for a tender to effectively use the budget for the purchase of children's travel. It is necessary to do what is necessary or has not been repeated when recovery costs came only in July. In the end, state social standards must be in place. Providing children with organized forms of recreation and recovery With regard to the immediate steps taken by the State to support the International Children's Centre, Artek raises a number of questions to the government. And we're going to redefine our determination, which the government should respond to and give a concrete answer, not only to the MPs, but also to the public from the following. What are some objections or reasons not to give this woman a national status? Is there anything like "Artec" in the world? None. So why two, three, even three months doesn't solve this question. If there were doubts about this, the trumpet was to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who is responsible for the timely preparation of the project of the State Programme of the Artek International Children's Centre for 2005-2015? As we know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decree was to set a time limit. growls and programs by January 1st of this year. And in general, what kind of eyes are they going to go, and they're going to go, because every summer, all the government officials in all the ranks are going to meet in Arteka, and this year Arteco is going to be 80 years from the day of the establishment of this unique children's institution, when only 30 million dollars are allocated in the government budget for its complex reconstruction? This is said to be a drop in the sea, taking into account a whole bunch of problems that have accumulated over the years. As well as good will and desire, perhaps we should consult with our regions, local self-government authorities, on possible forms and directions of cooperation with Artec, on the promotion and development of the material and technical base of this institution, on the organization and recovery of children from these areas. What today was said in the hall, namely, who, and on what grounds, privatized part of state property, part of Artek's estate? We have the impression that the state administration has taken over Artek and not accidentally after the death of the director of the Children's International Center, Artek Sidorenko, has appointed the person who did everything in a year to destroy Artek. The Office of the Attorney General should be clear here. And officially report on this issue to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and if necessary, and to use legislation-defined institutions. I think we have an urgent issue: the preservation of the Artek, we must urgently proceed to the execution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling, sorry, please, almost 400 people voted in favour of this ruling. If we're simply in favor of the red word, and for it to come out, and what my vote is for it too, then we don't have to vote. A decree has been taken to ensure that it is implemented. On the basis of the foregoing, our view is as follows. Get the government to implement the proposals set out in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rulings on urgent measures to support the state support of the young Artek Children's Centre and mark the 80th anniversary of its establishment. I am addressing you, Yuri Alexiyovich, Zinaido Petrovno, to the entire Department of the Ministry of Family Affairs, Children, and Young People, stressing that there is nothing like it in the world. And we must not lose this unique children's home. And if we just wave our hand again, somehow the President will come, the Ministry will come, the individual MPs will come, we'll applaud, we'll listen to the concert, and that's all that's left. We do not need to talk at all about caring for the growing generation and caring for our young ones. We are also concerned with the measures taken by Kabmin to organize and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2005. In this connection, in the draft decrees of today’s Government Day, we have drawn the government’s attention to the need to implement all the regulations in full. And I think that in the next plenary session, we're going to take into account all of the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies so that we can continue in a positive direction from this important problem. I'm going back to the minister, the deputy minister. Questions raised by my colleagues regarding other health - care workers were very important. Because of the finely trained children’s health, we already know that they have come, eaten, and gone to health. But we do have interlocks, generally well-known health workers, trade unionists. We need to pay attention to that. And we need to pay special attention to the Eupatoria. We've been doing a field meeting of the Supreme Council Committee, and we've seen the unique possibilities of almost all of the clinics for our children. There's nothing in the world. All right, let those who have a lot of money drive abroad to heal and heal. And we have to use the Eupatoria to heal and heal our children throughout the year. 20 percent of the workload is a government order for you. Because for an orphan child, it's better to heal and heal in the summer, but she didn't deny that she would actually be in Eupatoria and get better health by correcting health, coming back to her own house or the orphanage or the orphanage or the Chernobyl child. So when I finish my speech, I want to say that we don't have to invent anything, we have the right decisions, we have the right frame, we have the right frame, we have the desire, but I'm proposing to the government that for all the issues that are being resolved every day, we don't forget that we have to think about children every day, about the future of our nation, so that it's a healthy generation, not a generation of the sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's consult. We were supposed to have a break right now, but as we agreed when we opened the government's Day, it was going to be 40 minutes. Maybe we could just take 40 minutes off and finish our morning session? Is there no objection? Then let's move on to the discussion. Three minutes. First of all, the word will be given to representatives of factions and MPs. Please, Anatoly Rahansky, Democratic Ukraine. Get ready for Shershun Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Crimea, Eupatoria, Saki, Democratic Ukraine, "Deputy Chernobyl". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the new government! The information-analyst materials received indicate that the government is concerned about the recovery of children only in the summer. Who's going to take care of the treatment of children with disabilities all year? Statistics show that there are 8.5 million people in the country. Children under 14 years of age. There's 150,000 of them. invalids, 500,000. With bone - and - muscle disease, a million digestive tracts, one million accidents in CHAES, tens of thousands of diseases in DPP, bronchitis, and many other diseases. Child disability has increased by 21 percent, 25 percent. A child’s treatment is a matter of Ukrainian national security. The state doesn't fully use the wonderful heritage of the Soviet Union -- the children's sanatorium. These are the specialized sanatoriums of the Eupatoria, Yalta, Odessa, Rabbit, Berdjanska, with the conditions of year-round treatment and the teaching of children. Unfortunately, they are used by 15-20 percent in the autumn and spring periods. Thus, in Eupatoria, all - Ukrainian children’s health is lost in the ability to heal more than 100,000 children each year. This is the main reserve for reducing child disability. I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted to the Supreme Council materials that are not very good, without analysis of the sick children and their treatment. I propose to the new Cabinet of Ministers to work on these information and analysis materials, to listen to the government in early April with the agenda on the state programme for the treatment of children with disabilities and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2005, to urgently develop a national programme for the treatment of children with disabilities and patients, to provide for the placement of children's journeys, specialized sanatoriums for the treatment of children with disabilities, especially those affected by the accident at the Chernobyl station, to anticipate the participation of all children's specialised sanatoriums in social tendering, to review tender conditions, to declare a moratorium on the privatization of children's sanatoriums in the centre of the city, 500 metres from the sea, an under-built sanatorium of children's health care, to declare a moratorium on the privatization of children's sanatorium in the centre of the sea. Today, this is more of a commercial activity. In Eupatoria, at the International Center of Friendship, Cuban doctors work, they're surprised by the state's attitude towards the national capacity to treat children. On account of the cost of flying to Cuba alone and back, tens of thousands of sick children can be cured. Please count my statement as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u90	Thank you, Anatoly Bartholomew. Please, Mikola Shershun, People's Agrarian Party. He will be followed by Bogdan Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u91	Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Equality. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, government officials. When discussing the prospects for the recovery of children in today’s year, it is necessary to be honest, since objectively only 880,000 of the nearly three million children declared have actually recovered because they were in a hospital where conditions are needed. The rest of the children were simply resting in labor camps, preschool camps, and other camps. And I am grateful to Yuri Alexiyovich that in his report he may have been very soft, but he did notice that. I think we still need to keep statistics on how to answer the question: cured so much, provided for so much rest. And then it will be clear that there is a problem of recovery, a real recovery for today. Another issue is the liberation of sanatoriums from VAT payments from June 1st to September 1st. The question is, Really, children in Ukraine are only cured for three years. Go to any sanatorium in March or November -- and see what the kids are there. Therefore, I believe that if such institutions are to benefit from VAT, they should be granted for the entire year so that they do not travel, for they have already become more expensive than five percent because of the introduction of a tax on land. Next. The cost of healing, which is distributed to areas, comes or comes to place usually in June - July. Taking into account the tender procedure, they start at the beginning of the summer- fall, when the school year begins, and most families simply give up recovery. So the regions, well, I'd say they're just begging: give up the money at least in April. Another rake that seems to come upon us again will be the procedure for buying travel for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The centralized purchase of travel by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, by the way, the largest health care provider last year and proposed for this year, completely disregarded the diagnosis of children, many other moments. I think we need to look at the approach in principle, or children will not get better, but they will lose their health at a time when the ministries report on the progress in this field. And the last. There is always a lack of funding for the recovery of children, and this year there is not enough. Or is it appropriate to set up a special tax for those manufacturers who produce harmful products? For example, for manufacturers of vodka and cigarettes. Take a look, and the cost of recovery will arise. By the way, such practices already exist in some Baltic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u92	Thank you. Please. I can't see Bogdan Hubsky. Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] It will be followed by Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, our faction believes that through the joint actions of the Supreme Council, the Kabmin, the President, the central and executive authorities and local self-government, the number of non-citizen institutions that maintain their balance in children's health facilities has been ensured by an annual health campaign. We appreciate that the government and local authorities, local self - government, have focused on providing the health care of children who need the most attention and attention from the State. They're orphans, half orphans, children. the social families and the fact that Ukraine has welcomed more than 100 children living in an area of military conflict from the Republic of Iraq and more than 600 children affected by the Beslan tragedy was marked as a great blessing by the Pope of Rome at the International Forum of Women Parliamentarians for the Rights and Freedom of Children, which took place in Italy in the fall of last year and where I had the honour to represent Ukrainian women parliamentarians. Successful recovery is based on timely and adequate funding. The budget for this year has increased by 24 million. Our faction will support the actions of the new government, which will help to improve the resolution of this issue, and will also encourage the fulfilment of all the promises of the Ukrainian people during the elections. The State budget provides for the release of transactions from the sale of travel tickets to child health facilities from VAT payments. But the introduction of a tax on land, as has already been said, in accordance with the State Budget 2005 Act, will lead to an increase in travel costs of up to 5 percent, taking into account the seasonality of these facilities. Tender procedures for the purchase of child - care travel should begin. Usually, they never win a tender and never join it at one time, so - called intercoms and overseas camps. And so we think that these camps have the potential to make most of the children of rural areas better. The success of the health campaign also depends on the training of pedagogical personnel. I know from experience, because children usually work with students who are children themselves. Therefore, we think that we should return to what is once called a pioneer practice when there was practical training of teaching staff in the camps over the course of two weeks. We also approve of the position that the International Children's Centre for the National Status of Artek is being handed over to its Ministry for Family Affairs and Youth. But we also can't help but notice that the big problem remains the recovery and rest of orphans who are taught in vocational and technical schools, because since July, when they're all going on vacation, these children are essentially left behind, unsupervised, without adequate funding. And in the State Budget, you also have to predict the cost of this category of children.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko. Peter will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u95	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, "The Fatherland Party", Volin. Dear Chairman! Dear national MPs, government officials! And I thought there would be a lot of guests here today in this room. But he was clearly wrong, for besides the Ministry, which is directly responsible for his recovery. We would also be here with a huge amount of money to raise children -- the Ministry of Emergency Situations -- just 100 million; it's the Social Fund, the Social Security Fund -- over 110 million, and through the Ministry of Family and Youth, only 20 million. And, just as it is, this dispersion is likely to claim that there will be problems with the recovery of children this year. And we know that virtually every other child in Ukraine is a sick child, or pathological deviations from health standards. And it's not a secret, it's probably that those numbers, those indicators that we read in the information today, are basically raised at the expense of day-care camps. There is no such thing as healing, for children are used primarily, perhaps simply to avoid harming themselves. And so for school repairs, for other jobs, with one-time meals, for three bracelets a day, it's not healing, it's fiction, it's propaganda. And not to repeat last year's mistakes -- cracks, or simply irresponsibility, when assurances sounded good in this room, the government's pre-election promises and there was a failure in the organization of the first trip into the out-of-town specialized camps. I personally went to these camps where there were 10 or 12 children in the first day of the trip. We need to understand that the essence of recovery is clean air, increased nutrition, and the other side of healing with treatment. And, even specialized camps, they were released literally after six months. And I think we need to complete the database immediately, because it's not permanent for children and their health. I think that special attention should be paid to rural children, where they see a doctor once every few years to at least get a good look at him. I think you should.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u96	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. This is Oleg Petrov, NDP-Republic faction. Prepare Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u97	Recorded. Thank you so much for watching the Rules. I would like to point out that I would like to thank my colleague Kirilchuku for the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, because I am also really impressed by the representation of the government. I'm probably going to shorten my wishes and "thank you." When today, on such a principled issue, it concerns both property and finances and, in general, that we received a lot of letters from trade unions. And you know what social insurance is funding today, and the unions are funding the camps, too, and most of the left-hand parts in the regions. So what I'm saying is that this experiment, and I was making an offer when the budget was accepted, which we got in the back of that year, in 2004, when we took from the regions the distribution of travel to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, I think it hit. And that's the main question today. Because I essentially want to focus on specific issues. We need to get it back to the region. It is wrong to send 50 trips today, from Chernigiv region to Chernobyl, and from Chernigivsky to Chernigivsk. You see, we've come to absurdity, by the way. I'm not talking about tenders anymore, I'm not talking about the journey that consists of, by the way, the cost of travel, you know what it's made of. And by the way, in Artec, it's made up, too. In Artec, where not many camps have exactly five times their diet, it's a bus, it's a tour, it's also a journey cost. Therefore, VAT, which I emphasize, was not decided throughout the summer of that year. Even though you know what decisions have been made, the government has peddled the issue and has not solved the VAT. That is why these are our problems today. I would like to point out by tender that, despite the form of ownership, we need to solve the question: if this is a certified child care center, it should be in the tender today, and it should be in the children's health today. It's both collective property, both private and state property. So, as you pointed out, all forms of property should be. This refers to, by the way, as my colleague said, intercom or between the farm camps that exist today. And I would like to point out that today, Yuri Alexiyovich said that we should look for where to find the forms. So I want to tell you that we need to reorganize what this project is like today, to pass on the Min family today, young people, and to certify all the camps that are today. And the replica is that today, the leadership of Artek, it was here that there was a new leadership after Sydrenek Michael Mikhailovich, so I want to say that all the new leadership in Artek today, and just as this leadership came a year ago, Victor Ivanovich is here, we've stopped that derebanization, as my colleague Samojlik said, derbaniz said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u98	Yes, thank you. Please, Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Behind her is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u99	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, Health, Maternal and Childhood Committee. The honourable Chief Minister, who is now giving an interview in the towers, because the press wants to know about the plans of the young ministry’s activities, I would like to point out that the issue that we are considering today is obviously a test, a litmus paper or a quintension of all that is left to this day. Today is the third official working day of the newly elected government. And I'd like to respond immediately to the calls or the hot statements that we've reached the pen, the "Artek" we're not going to give to anyone, a little bit rephrasing the nouns -- yes, they've reached the pen, the ones that worked and worked so far, the previous government, whose slogan, the Janukovich government, was "Coherence, Efficiency and Responsibility." Consequently, they were effectively and irresponsibly decommissioned: the Black Sea coasts were decomposed, the jobs were decommissioned, and the spoils were corrupt. In education, it is possible to obtain education for a rural child or a mining town or village child. And the question with Artec is, this is the quintension of the future of our children. And our children felt it like no one else, and our children went out into the field, and our children said 'No!"by saving himself, his future, as well as the honour and reputation of his parents and our old age. Because if you want to know why we didn't go to the orange grounds, because there were the children of our high-ranking militiamen, our daughters and our sons, and they said, "Daddy, Mom, we're with the people!" So, my dears, we are in a huge debt to our children, and, of course, on behalf of the government, and I represent most of them, I assure you, yes, they have reached the pen, and we will not allow anyone to deserve this country or the future of our children, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. To the question of where the government is today, I answer, my dears: today's presentation in the ministries, if you don't know it, today we are preparing changes to the budget to be adopted in March, because the Janukovic government's sink, which has consistently, effectively and irresponsibly decimated Ukraine's future, has reached seven months ahead of business, a taxed future that has not yet been born. Therefore, my dears, I assure you that as it was, there will never be. What's it gonna be? And it will really communicate all the functions of a unique pearl of child recovery in the Ministry of the Family and Youth, and there will be state security, and the funds for it will be found, because the President said, "Don't steal, don't steal, don't steal, and don't steal again!" And literally, to the last. I've been talking to representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, UNESCO has acknowledged that this is the pearl of the world's planetary scale, ours. [[UNESCO, think about it!]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare Katerina Fomenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u101	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences, television viewers! Indeed, the principle of today is discussed in Parliament. And I wouldn't want to criticize where the government is. Of course, a colleague had just reported where. But yet today we are discussing issues related to our children with the future of our children. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, we'd like to focus on a few of these. First. We are very concerned, and this has already been discussed by colleagues who have spoken, a question related to the rest of the village’s children, or rural children. Of course, today we have such statistics that in the past year some 16,000 camps have been opened in schools. In the summer, I was introduced to the work of these camps in the village -- and I want to tell you that the children brought food to school, and they went home for lunch. And the report was on its way. And, of course, when we started to analyze how our children are resting, in the last three years, really, statistics are wonderful: so many children we have recovered, so many children are resting, are getting better, and all. And when you get to the point, we have to say that it's all a lie, not more, a lie, a lie itself, an insistent lie, but that we understand today what the situation with children is, not just in the villages, but in the cities. They left school on their own, and we don't have kids in the summer. What about Artek, other prestigious health facilities for children, we know whose children are resting there. And they don't rest 24 days or a month -- they spend all summer there because parents have the right funding, or their parents are in the right position when children can do anything. And it's not just that we're saying that millions of children are cured. We need to find out what this was all about. And I would certainly like to wish the new minister Yuri Alexiovich. We know that much will change. Change statistics in reality and look, really, at the problems involved with children in the country. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is telling everyone today that we are taking responsibility and controlling how this campaign is going to go through this year. Not just on paper 200 million, 140 million from the budget, but what will really be realized in our country's territory, according to our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u102	Yes, please, Katerina Fomenco, Union Group. Prepare the Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The question that we are discussing today really is not only of a social nature but of a national nature. And I want to stop at exactly how the state supports this very important matter of our community. Listen to these figures. Today, so many were called, 170 million, that's more than 24 million than it was that year. The local budgets are 140 instead of 126. And I very much invite you, honourable deputies, let's go down from heaven to the sinful earth and see what these millions look like in the local budgets. I'll give you an example from one area, but this applies to everyone. For example, the Luhansk region needs to be healed by 280,000 children of the alcohol categories. Some 3.6 million dollars — about 13 dollars per child — have been set up for these needs. If you go to the district level. About 22 - 25,000 people are budgeted for between 15 and 17,000 dollars. Area. The budget needs to be set at a further rate of 3-4 times more in order to meet its needs. In doing so, they remove funding from other articles, including protected articles. Please tell me, what state security are we talking about today? So I would like to assume that when we make changes to the 2005 State Budget, which is going to be very soon, I propose that we set up a targeted subsidy for local self-government authorities in order to finally make this funding as it should be. Next. I'm not going to stop today for very long and comment on the work of our social insurance fund with temporary disability loss, but there's almost an annual amount of 689 budgets in Ukraine -- 111 million dollars. I don't want to tell you what level the tenders are at, how this is happening. I'm just asking you to do the following. I'm going to the government today. Finally, these payments should be made as financial compensation to those parents who have these children to be healed or to those institutions where these children are located. And the third problem. Yes, in the 2005 budget, we set a standard for paying land taxes by these health facilities, and that is how we supported the local budgets, which are losing a billion million dollars in land taxes. But I think it's necessary to set up this compensation, this money loss, this health care facility, and this is what the budget committee insisted on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Andrew Polit, the Communist faction. Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u105	Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Leninski Komsomol. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Kabmina report noted that the summer health campaign had been successful in 2004. And the figure is that 2 million 767 thousand children were covered by health services, 47 per cent of all school-age children. Which makes this figure, which is what we're talking about here today. Careful consideration includes those who have rested in sanatoriums and holiday homes, but also those who have received so - called health care in school camps. Not for the sake of this kind of relaxation in the people is called “asphalt healing”, which is 50 per cent of the total recovery. Can you compare the results of a child’s recreation in Crimea and his day in the courtyard of his own school? The main reason why the Supreme Council is so attentive to this issue is the inconsolable progressive statistics of school age children's diseases that we have today in Ukraine. If Kabmin’s triumphal figures had been followed by indicators of how much percentage of school-age children had actually decreased, then the report would have been much clearer and more specific. Health is now provided in institutions of various forms of ownership: State, trade union, community, others. A number of ministries are the main managers of the means for the rehabilitation of children. But there is no clear programme in Kabmin to provide country-wide criteria for the recovery of children, their standards of detention. Responding to the question as to which treatment and preventive procedures it should be given the Single Standards for the provision of necessary sports, technical, health and medical equipment to the institutions concerned. And, of course, there can be no problem with the educational work carried out in health institutions. This work requires a systematic approach by Min Education and all interested organizations. We believe that public organizations are not yet sufficiently involved in this work. Ukraine has registered a large number of youth organizations whose statutory objectives are to raise young people, organize their leisure and recreation. Why are they not taking the initiative and the relevant central authorities of the executive branch do not properly involve these associations in organizing the child's annual recovery? Last but not least, we are talking today about the special status of the Artek International Children's Centre among health institutions. Indeed, full support is needed for the integrated reconstruction of the Arteca logistics base and the construction of new facilities. But we have another equally important children's center, the Young Guard. Today it belongs to the Union of Ukrainian Pioneer Organizations. But why did the State self-determination in the functioning of the Centre, where children were fully healed? Finally, allow me to express my regret that only 23 people's deputies are interested in the health of the growing generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u106	Yes, please, Bogdan Hubsky, the "Only Ukraine" faction, followed by Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, to return to the face of a simple man -- that is, to become an ideology and a goal of activity, both the government and every authority of the state. And this is the clear position of the faction of Ukraine. First of all, it should concern our future, our children. A person’s attention should be a major national priority. After all, the success of the State is the success of every family, every citizen. Success in the simplest, most vital sense of the word. This is a good opportunity to raise children, to have confidence in the future, and to ensure an adequate level of social protection. And that's exactly the way it is, and today we need to radically change state policy on the protection of motherhood and childhood. The first steps in this regard have already been taken. In particular, at the suggestion of the "One Ukraine" faction, the minimum aid for the birth of a child has been increased to a double subsistence minimum of 846 dollars. We've also introduced laws, which is to increase to 752 bracelets per month to care for a child up to three years of age. A law has been introduced to set up deposit accounts for newborns in the size of two living minimums, that is, 846 dollars to which interest will go, and a child will be able to receive an amount of 18 years. The next important problem is the environmental situation, this is Chernobyl, which is a national tragedy for our people. These problems require that we provide young people and the growing generation with the opportunity to rest and recover fully. I'm absolutely confident that it's necessary to provide for the travels of all those who don't have the money -- orphans, disabled children, children from an underprivileged family. Almost all longtime families in Ukraine are poor, more so than poor. Let's provide the travels of the poor, the rich will provide for themselves. You also need to make sure that there is no corruption in the distribution of travel. Because it's shameful to take advantage of children, and we know these facts. Next. In recent years, many sanatoriums and other health facilities, ministries, and offices have been donated free of charge to commercial structures. Especially in Crimea and Odessa. It's a field of activity for the Attorney General's Office. Next. Working with children requires high - professional personnel. And that's why we think that we need to expand the government's invitation to pedagogical institutions. And as a result, I wanted to summarize briefly. According to the faction of the "only Ukraine" party, what needs to be done. First. It is to restore to the state property all specialized health care, medical care, and children’s institutions. Because each of them are hundreds of children who have not been able to recover. To ensure the free recovery of all children from underprivileged families, pay attention to the Chernobylites. And the last. This is to ensure admission to educational institutions for the budgetary training of all graduates who have passed the exams but who have no funds to pay for the training. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u108	Thank you. The factions and groups spoke. Please, Puzakov Vladimir. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u109	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This year’s budget provides significant funds for the recovery of children. But if they are cured as the program requires, there is doubt. After all, the dismal results of a child’s summer have not yet been forgotten when in just one of the camps in the Luhansk region, 54 children were ill with salmonellasis, and 1,785 health - care institutions had to pay fines. And 407 camps and holiday homes were closed. Of these, 20 have been criminalized. Last year, some 2 million people were resting. Children, and considering that we have about 11 million children. Children, can it be said that children’s recreation is well organized? As has been the case with the number of rested boarding - care workers and the children of socially vulnerable families. That's good. What can be explained by the fact that only 10 percent of Chernobyl children rested for their budget money? This is because Chernobyl has more than a million children. When and where will children with physical and intellectual disabilities be healed? What year do these same walls talk about reducing the cost of travel and improving the quality of services they provide? But no one can conclude from this. These walls have repeatedly said that it is necessary to develop mechanisms for the granting of benefits to health - care institutions in payment of utilities, as well as for their complete release from land tax and water use. Let's stop transferring the funding of the children to local budgets. We know very well what comes out of those budgets for recovery. I would like to hear more today about the reconstruction of the International Children's Centre, Artek, and the hope that Ukrainian children will be able to fill the camp not by 50 percent, but much more, and not just in summer, but for a year, and those children who need it. I called only a few shortcomings in the organization of last summer’s children’s recreation. And if they are not counted and the decision is not taken to eliminate them, as promised by the new government, it can be said that the healing season for children will not begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u110	Please, Basil Nadrag, prepare Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! I would like to clarify the previous speaker: we are 18 people in the Chamber. Yes, and I think that, in general, what might bring some optimism is the only one on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, I have a proposal: as a result of this hearing, please send the Government's protocol to all members of the Cabinet of Ministers to work on the situation, and all that was said in this room would be used in some way effectively to address the problem of child recovery in 2005, including through the International Children's Centre, Artek. Now, a few points on this subject. First, so far, there's a topic, if you talk about Artek, the cost of travel has increased, and so today, in order to even pay 30 per cent of the cost of travel, if this was 603 bracelets in 2004, it's already 1098 bracelets in 2005. What poor ones can we talk about if this is the price of a journey? However, children who are eligible under established regulations for the selection and placement of children in the State Enterprise, Artek International Children's Centre, to concessional categories and whose parents are able to pay the amounts, also do not always have the opportunity to rest in Artec, since the average monthly income of families is slightly higher than the subsistence minimum. I mean, I think this is where you need your adjustment, which I have to tell you clearly what options children can go in, because that's the kind of trickery that leads to what five bracelets more parents get, and therefore the kid can't go. Furthermore, there is no increase in the age of children to 16 years, i.e. we do so that older children of the school age are legally unable to drive and recover. That's insane, because under the Child Protection Act, the child's age is defined as under 18 years of age, and we don't even get to 16 years of age. Third, one of the conditions for sending a child from a multi-child family is that the family must be placed in social protection and receive assistance as a family of the poor. Thus, the support of many families is insufficient, i.e. what I said: one bracelet is given more to the family - and the child can no longer receive a concessional pension, the journey - please forgive. Next moment. The mass of problems remained under the State programme for the rest and recovery of children, which was approved by the Cabinet Regulation as early as January 2003. First: The treatment of children with diabetes has not been developed. We have no children in the State budget for this category, no specialized sanatorium facilities for children with diabetes. Next, the question continues, and he has already spoken here, is the elimination of the sale and re-profiling of child health care. You can't let that happen. Few enterprises are not interested because taxation is such that they are not able to treat children through the internal reserve. Last. [[I'm asking you to give me a chance to finish thinking.]] The thought is one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u112	Vasil Ivanovich, all in equal conditions. I'm sorry. Please, Zara Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u113	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to Valentina Ivanovna Duženko for the work of her team, under her leadership, and to express the hope that the incoming new team led by Yuri Alexeevich will be no less able to work, and our cooperation will be equally effective. We hope that the provision of children from many children and children with disabilities, i.e. socially unprotected, free travel in 2005 will not be below 2004 levels, but perhaps much higher. Because of the difficult socio-economic conditions in the country, unfortunately, most parents are unable to pay for their children's travel. Now it is just a matter of remembering the times when any child could rest 24 days in a pioneer camp for a purely symbolic fee, five or six roubles. Regrettably, those days were set off for Flight. In Soviet times, children were socially protected, and not just children. In recent years, the system itself has changed dramatically for the preparation of children's summer facilities, including the pearls of Crimea, Artec. If in Soviet times the winners of various views, competitions, competitions were sent to Artek, it was a great form of encouraging the best of the best. Best traditions are the school of pioneer assets. Now, Artek and other doctors have become available mainly to those who are able to buy a trip. Since I am the representative of Crimea, I have special pain for our pearls, the Children's “Artek” and “Euppatoria”, which have always been Ukraine's national heritage, where national and international programmes have been implemented. Artek was. has always been and is the centre of creative activities that stimulates Ukraine's young elite, its future. The Arteca has developed an exclusive system of child rest management, and several dozen projects and programmes of national and international importance have been successfully implemented. All of the above has nothing to do with the fact that Artek has been under the authority of the Government Office of the President of Ukraine since March 2000. I hope that the newly elected President will correct such a sad fact and that no DSSia will come to terms, including children's health care. [[i.e. the C.I.S.]] The changes in status had led to the beginning of work for the implementation of the journeys and the filling of the Arteca, unfortunately. Those who are capable of making a round sum. The importance of Arteca for Ukraine is undeniable, and the support of the State will turn repeatedly into new generations of Ukrainian children, in the increasing role and importance of our State in today's world. I would like to remind those present that Artek has reached the 79-year border, was established in 25 years and has not been funded from the State budget for more than 13 years, except for the acquisition of travel. Such an approach has taken place in a collective situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we have exhausted the prescribed rules for discussing the matter. Let me briefly summarize the Government Day. I think that each of those present in the session room and the deputies who are listening to us outside the session hall and our voters will agree that we have really discussed with you today one of the pressing life issues of our present. There is a problem. We're talking about this problem with you every year, but it's very good that, really, under the insistence of the profiling committee, we've been looking at this issue not as always, traditionally in May, but sometimes in June months, but what I'm really stressing is the profile committee we're looking at with you at the beginning of this financial year, in order to take into account the problems that we have. That's very good. Today and in the speeches and in the questions raised by the reporter, the new minister, there were quite a number of valuable suggestions that I hope the ministry will take into account to solve this problem. Likewise, I would ask the Ministry to make the decisions that we have taken with you in the session hall on child-rearing issues, and those decisions that concern the issue of our national pride, as each of you here practically spoke, are our children's health camp, "Artec," and we will expect that the ministry, after listening to our proposals, will be said to die behind the budget line already in the 2005 budget. Because it's clear to each of us that in March months we're going to see a completely second State budget for 2005, and many of the articles that are currently recorded and operating in the budget can disappear for the purpose of, what is called, the economy of funds and the balance of the state budget. And another thing that we've also talked about, almost every single speaker, is the wish to the newly appointed Cabinet of Ministers and, in particular, to its humanitarian bloc, the bloc and social policy that was responsible for the preparation and conduct of this Government Day. I understand that giving an interview, participating in the round tables, being on television all the time, in the media, taking care of media reform is one of the directions of the vice-minister's activities, but it's far from in charge, because there are a lot of vicious problems, including the problem that has been addressed today. And what the newly created Cabinet of Ministers has ignored today is absolutely no indication of the Prime Minister's statements that have recently come out of this rostrum that it will be so fruitful to work with Parliament that no Parliament has ever seen. The fertility of this work has been seen with you today. And instead of meeting people, we've seen steps today to meet people. If this continues to be the case, I think cooperation will be quite illusory. And there's no reason, no explanation that someone, somewhere, is busy, probably can't justify this, sorry, mindless attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers, as it is today. Moreover, it was the first day of the New Cabinet of Ministers. And as he demonstrated his attitude towards Parliament and the problem that is being discussed, I think this should be a lesson for them. When I'm finished, dear colleagues, I want to remind you how we're going to continue to work with you. Out of February 9, 11, and 14, 17, the National Deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. On February 16, 11 a.m., a parliamentary hearing will be held on the legislative provision of the development and improvement of the beet-sugar complex in Ukraine. From February 21st to February 25th, the people's deputies are working in the districts, February 23rd, at 2.30 p.m. Parliamentary hearings will be held: "National cinematography -- state, problems and ways of solving them." The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on March 1. Now, according to the regulations, you and I would have to make a decision about the government's day right now, but you understand, unfortunately, there's no one to take. What I said about the government is to some extent relevant to our colleagues. That they feel the same way as the government does before the government. So I would like to ask the committee of profile to prepare for the next plenary week, which will start on March 1st, so that the results of the government's day will be decided accordingly. Thank you for this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
