ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:20]] There were 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the origin of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Astrov-Šumilova Gennadia Kostanović, Budagyanac Mikoli Abramovich, Hapokki Mikli Mihajlovich, Zubcja Mikilović, Melnikovova Mikoli Petrovic, Smiyanka Igory Mikolajovich, Sološenko Mikoli Pavlovich, Ckitishvili Envera Omarovich, to the composition of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. [[political parties "Universal Union of the Fatherland", Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suskevitch, Valeri Mikhajlovich, from the MP faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and of the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Come on, we've got to work! Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters according to schedule. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is being announced for consideration. [[on the sale of goods and services for]] Registration numbers 3128, 3128-1, 4398. Reporters are Ukrainian national deputies Catherine Vaschuk, John the Rabbit, Anatoly Hirschfeld. The committee is Oleg Panasovski. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the bill was drafted and submitted to the Supreme Council in 2003 at the request of thousands of villagers. His main moments. As we know, rural electricity is being supplied by Ukraine’s energy companies. They're in private property and they've become owners of regional electricity networks. Oblenergo, using his monopoly right, openly introduces inconvenient conditions for the payment and supply of electricity to agricultural producers. What is the expression? First of all, price difference. If you take the electricity prices that industry consumes, they're 40 to 60 percent lower than what peasants pay. I'm giving examples, I used to give them, making a statement here in the Supreme Council, here. Winnie: Industrialists pay 16.6 pcs, peasants pay 26.2 pcs. Kirovograd: industry - 17 copies, village - 27. Ternopil: industrials - 17, village - 26.5 et cetera. The next moment. Here the ICRE is based on the loss of electricity during transportation. In general, electricity is wasted from 15 to 30 percent, but why should peasants be responsible when they consume only 8 percent of the electricity consumed in Ukraine in general? All the losses are on them. And then. Most of the power lines that supply electricity were made by transformers at the expense of collective farms, passed on free of charge, and now people are suffering. The next painful moment. If a farmer uses electricity a little more during a period than is stipulated in the contract for various reasons, such as wet grain and more drying, fines are imposed five times. Today, about 800 million people in Ukraine have been punished with such fines. This is a question we have studied by the Lithuanian People's Party faction, made some further legal amendments to the Law, and we offer this Law to accept, honourable colleagues. It will remove the price problem and remove the possibility of imposing unmotivated
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u3	Yes, thank you, Catherine Timofievna. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please explain your bill. Prepare Anatoly Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u4	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable national MPs are some of the problems associated with electricity consumption that hinder the restoration of the village, agricultural production, and the creation of modern infrastructure in the village. First of all, I want to draw your attention to tariff policies in the rural electricity sector. Agricultural producers, fixed agricultural tax payers, and small and medium - size enterprises, should be more specifically told to sub-enterprises operating in rural areas who are paying a single, or fixed, tax, electricity is released at a price of on average 2 times the size of the population. In terms of the country’s electricity consumption industry, it is also more expensive. Energy - efficient organizations explain this by the fact that the supply of electricity to villages has to do with major losses. Given that the purchase prices for agricultural products are low, and the fuel, given its low quality, are world-class, the socio-economic development of the village in such a situation is nothing to say. That's why we have a real need to spend money on the village of energy supply. Rural life is very difficult, and agricultural production is very expensive. In democratic states this is understood by both the authorities and all citizens. Therefore, the village is supported by a whole set of measures, including subsidies, quotas for production and implementation, prices. If we want to create competitive national agricultural production, we must and we must support the village, all those who work on the ground and serve the peasants. In this part of the village’s support, I suggested setting a fragmented price for electricity for agricultural producers, fixed agricultural tax payers and business operators operating in rural areas are paying a single or fixed tax at a level that does not exceed the level of electricity tariffs for the rural population. The second problem we can't get past is what we call basic electricity consumption levels. The consumption of electricity above the base levels has led to a significant multiple increase in electricity tariffs for the consumer. In accordance with the applicable Electricity Act, consumers, with the exception of the population and state-owned vocational and technical teachers, pay energy suppliers in the case of electricity consumption above the contractual value of a five-fold difference in actual consumption and contractual value. Obviously, this mechanism was created in terms of energy deficits, but it's not there right now. That's why we, the people of the Ukrainian People's Party faction, stand out in contrast to this harmful mechanism for entrepreneurship. In my bill, I suggested that this mechanism of responsibility for agricultural producers and small and medium-sized enterprises should be removed from the rural area. I remind you that today we have adopted a bill that reduces this tariff by 2.5 times the amount of electricity consumed. So I suggest you think carefully about getting rid of it or in some other way settling the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u5	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Anatoly Musiovich Hirschfeld, please, regarding Bill 4398, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, much has already been said about the difficult situation in the APC and the provisions of the bill that I have tabled are much in line with the views of my previous colleagues. Which I wanted to pay particular attention to. Why did three bills, four on one topic and one topic, appear in the hall today? This is first of all the difficult economic conditions that have arisen in the APC today. There seems to be a lack of State support that exists to date. Our People's Agrarian's initiative remained an unsurpassed dream for peasants, then a faction of the Supreme Council, and ten per cent of support, government support from the APC country's budget. The critical level of wear-out of core funds, the travel of fuel, oil and lubricants prices, the transition to minimum wages, and especially the reduction of customs duties to the food group, i.e. the creation of an equal competitive environment by highly unequal competitors. We are now in the process of joining the WTO, when the protocols will clearly record the level of State support that I wish to stress in the coming years will be provided to the village. That is why it is particularly important to create an economic environment in which the APC operates. Today, as has been said, the final price for electricity exceeds 60 per cent of the price of industry. The fines and pennies that now exist in rural energy supply are already about 15 per cent of the cost of electricity, which puts the farmer in a very difficult and sometimes difficult economic situation. Dear colleagues, in deciding on this issue, please note that the threats to the country's security, as the expert committee now says on the law, are a systemic crisis in the APC, not a five-fold cut-off by energy-producing companies, which instead of existing practices should develop energy transmission networks, thus removing this problem and creating conditions for development, intensive development of the agro-industry complex. Please support the law on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u7	Thank you, Anatoly Musiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. The name of the people was written on the board. Oh, excuse me, from Oleg Panasowski's committee, please. From the committee, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u8	Respectable colleagues. I report the views of the Sectoral Committee on Tech, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security on both bills. The bill, registration number 3128, provides for a special preferential mode of electricity consumption for agricultural consumers of the marginal price of electricity, for agricultural producers of electricity tariffs that do not exceed the level of electricity tariffs for the rural population, and for the elimination of sanctions for consumption of electricity above the contractual value of nonsensance. The bill establishes the right of agricultural producers to consume electricity at all levels without restrictions, without imposing any sanctions for breach of contractual conditions. [[Registration number 4398]] The proposed provisions of these bills do not take into account the specificity of energy production, the interests of energy suppliers and energy-generating companies. It is not taken into account that Ukraine is totally dependent on external energy markets, which puts the generating enterprises in a position to work in a cost-effective mode. Energy will have to compensate for the increase in tariffs for other consumers, which will balance the country's economy. That's a first. Secondly, electricity cannot continue to absorb the costs of non-profit and low-efficiency production, to lend almost all the country's industry and agriculture, to supply electricity at tariffs that do not cover its production costs, to work in a planned and waste mode. The Committee does not support the elimination of sanctions for exceeding the contractual values of power and electricity consumption, as the discipline of electrical regimes is a guarantee of the energy security of the State and the responsibility for excess energy consumption must be. In particular, generation and consumption must be balanced from the work of the energy sector. Energy consumption should therefore be managed. The Profile Committee agrees with the need to reduce the frequency of sanctions by supporting the Cabinet of Ministers in Bill 5120, which is proposed to amend the Energy Act as necessary. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to reject the bill. [[Registration number 3128 and 4398]] The Committee on TEC, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security agrees with the view of the scientific and expert office to reject these bills. I ask for that decision to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. We need two to go, two to go. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We have just heard the thoughts of both the National Deputy of Vaschuk and the National Deputy of the Hare and the National Deputy of Hirschfeld. I completely agree with John Alexander's Zaj on the need to make the law a little wider. I am grateful to Catherine Timothy for the emphasis she has placed, but she suggests that the law should apply exclusively to agricultural producers, fixed agricultural tax payers. And Mr. Hare is expanding the law and wants it to apply not only to these subjects but also to subjects of entrepreneurial activity operating in rural areas who are paying a single or fixed tax. I mean, it includes what Catherine Timofievna says, and it's a little bit wider, and for the village, it would be better. But in this case I'd like to ask you to adopt all three bills, they're all positive, and make all three authors. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to criticize all three authors for one thing: why do you, Your Honor, if you're touching this law that's made under the oligarchs, about electricity, and why does the honourable Mr. Panasovski, as I respect you, why don't you see that what we've written down here is that above the contractual value, if the energy costs, pays the five times the cost of the difference, in fact, of the amount consumed and of the contractual value? When will we deviate from this five - fold value? I appeal to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko: Maybe let us not say words, but in practice love people, and if we love people, let us stop the abuse and throw the fivefold value out of this law now. There's no place like 100 bucks and 500 bucks. Nowhere! It's only in your energy that there is, in the thieving energy that is now destroying people. How can up to 30 percent be lost today? How could that be? But isn't this a matter for the D.A., the Security Service, the Ministry? Then why do we have the Ministry of Energy? What do you do if you have such a loss of electricity? Why, then, do we produce it? Ladies and gentlemen, either prepare to walk from there or report why this is happening. Wow! That's what's hiding behind this budget loss. It's how they hide! And everyone's quiet, everyone's comfortable with it. So we have to ask long ago about the level of profitability and limit the level of profitability, including among those involved in energy supply. The United States is doing it, it's a market country, and we see why we work for oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u11	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! You are witnessing that today we are looking at legislation in Parliament that is very necessary, and if they are adopted as laws, there will certainly be benefits to the village. But I have very little hope for that. First of all, when we analyze some of the bills, some of the times, we think they're just populist. At least what we did in the country today is very difficult to talk about in the country about electricity. But still, since the authors have made a great deal of effort to take a step towards a better one, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bills that have been submitted, and we think that before the second reading, we would need to unite and make a powerful one bill for the second reading that we could vote for in Parliament. And yet I would like to remind you. The state that provides itself, which is the state of Ukraine, electricity, can provide and continue to export electricity beyond the borders of Ukraine, cannot provide electricity to its people. So the point is, where are we going with them? Why is that, four kips of electricity, two kips of transportation, six kips. Well, somebody might need a beer over there, they stole two more. Let's have 8 copies, let's have 10 copies. Look, the farmers pay 31 kips. And as long as I haven't asked the past government, maybe I'll go to today's minister, and where the 80-90 percent price goes. Where to? What pocket? Well, that was then. And now we're the man to bring the state into order?Oh, my God! With regard to the electricity consumed in the village. We understand the complexity of the village today. We're ready to support Julia Volodymyrna in saying that we should review the country's tariffs. When will that be? Come on, I'm going to the government, you're here, distinguished representatives, make suggestions, parliament will consider the tax rates, the electricity for the village. And then we'll go from words to action. And then people will realize that they've come back to them face-to-face, not just conversations and statements from the rostrum and everything at that end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u13	Vitaly Oluiko, faction of the People's Party. John the Rabbit will speak next. Is there Ivan Alexanderovich? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u14	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! This new dissension as a system of economic fraud of the village, which tied the peasant on his hands and feet, has no right to life. That's the position of the People's Party. This is true of all without excluding farming issues in the agricultural sector, such as the energy supply of the village. The stumbling block here is known today to be the position of the electricity supplier of district energy companies, owners of regional electricity networks, operating under the principle of "landlords barin." There's no one left. Not surprisingly, the permissive monopoly that turned out to be an agricultural producer of cable power. This is also the weight of the gold service, and barbaric sanctions for breach of contractual terms. If you look closely, you can see a strange painting. Even the cost of the so-called service Mercedes, the technological costs of the networks, as well as the systematic theft of electricity, all of this is being turned over to the peasant's shoulders, setting tariffs. The People's Party's faction, aimed at reducing the level of economic sanctions applied to electricity consumers and energy-efficient companies, supports the general liberal concept proposed for consideration of the bill and the authors' intention to normalize the activities of the State Energy Inspectorate. A kind of charm of the bill is its and partial conformity with the European Union’s legislation. At the same time, the faction of the People's Party points out that laws are very important, but since 2003 they have been registered by members of the People's Party faction Katerina Vastuk and Anatoly Musiovich, since 2003 they have submitted two bills to the Supreme Council, which provide for a more substantial optimization of electricity tariffs and the abolition of fines for farmers. And the system and sequence of actions of the People's Party on the protection of the interests of peasants is also evident by the fact that on February 2, 2005, National Deputy Catherine Vaschuk of the Parliamentary Court, in his statement, also called on the people's deputies, and the government to speed up action and restore justice for our agrarians, and to put an immediate end to the pressure on agricultural producers. The People's Party faction insists that these bills should be considered in a package, and the most valuable should be taken into account because the energy policy that is being implemented today does not leave peasants a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u15	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u16	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters. Indeed, the destructive, anti-national, anti-Selian reforms that have been vigorously implemented by Ukraine’s bourgeois rule in the country over the past 14 years have led our country’s agriculture to such a state that it must be saved immediately. The majority of agricultural producers today are profitable. To overcome this, we need to reduce the cost of production and create conditions for agricultural production to become profitable. There are several ways to do that. First, to facilitate the transformation of small, inefficient farms created in the countryside instead of destroyed farmlands and racons into large high-tech enterprises, is to give farmers the right to choose for themselves the forms of agricultural production organization. Whether it be a cooperative or a raconsop or a pooling of land and property owners. Today, as before, authorities oppose the introduction of such organizational forms in the countryside. Second, a government order for hard - priced production was not made once by communists to all governments. Then the farmer will plan his activities, and the authorities will be able to regulate food prices on the market. Timoshenko’s government attempted to arrange for the purchase of meat through the woodshed and to lower its retail price. It didn't work out, because it doesn't have to be the avalanche of the holes, it's the system. Third, the abuse of peasants, who, with incredible difficulties, produce agricultural products, and the middlemen take it for a penny. Breakdowns of milk, meat, bread, and other foods are 2-3 times higher than purchases. Is transportation processing that expensive for production? Fourth, to provide agricultural production with modern technology and technology. They won't do it themselves. Therefore, it is imperative for the State to do so. Five not in words, but in practice to give peasants cheap loans, but not like today - under 17-25-27% of the age. And it's under five, tops. As the European Union, where the knees of today’s authorities want to kneel, provide a government grant for the produce produced. By the way, it's on a small scale, but it's projected in the government budget this year. In the first quarter, however, the peasants did not receive a penny. Minfine was justifiable there, but it's sabotage. And the seventh, all sorts of cost of resources: fuel, fertilizer, seeds, spare parts, electricity, etc. All three bills amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity deal with this issue. They need support. In view of the fact that Bill No. 3128 is absorbing the other two, I would like to support the first draft of Bill No. 5120 on reducing the pressure on electricity consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u17	Dear colleagues. Please, Yuri Vasilovich Prodan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We ask you not to support this bill for the following reasons. First. Setting tax rates is about 300 million dollars a year to compensate for the losses we've suffered. So these costs are going to be translated either to other consumers, including budget consumers and housing and utilities, or it's going to be budget funding. That's the first question. And the second question. A complete reversal of responsibility, a complete reversal of sanctions for exceeding the contractual values of electricity consumption will lead to a deterioration in the discipline of calculations and will be a factor in balancing Ukraine’s energy system. Because electricity cannot be stored and its production cannot be dramatically increased without adequate additional costs. Thank you for your attention. Once again, honourable national MPs, do not support these three bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, John the Rabbit. Microphone, John the Rabbit for Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u20	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I can't agree that this bill can't be adopted because it's a question of compensation. Dear friends, the village is looting today. If this is a question of compensation, please put in the State Budget the costs that can be compensated. But today it is impossible to artificially restrain the development of the village, and today it is impossible to artificially curb the development of rural infrastructure. Today, we know that the purchase prices for agricultural products, meat, milk, do not meet the costs, the skin of the product is not worth it. And we pretend we don't see it. So my proposal is for a bill to be adopted and for a new budget to be set up to compensate for these costs. And this year you can work on this bill. I know very well how the energy supply has been used to supply electricity to the village. That's what everyone knows today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u21	Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to address both the government and the Energy Committee. Dear fellows, you're a fraud. Today, losing about 20, or 25, to 30 percent of your electricity, instead of working to keep it, you save it there, you translate it into a peasant because. It's a long way from here. And the second. A total of eight percent of the population is in the village. So you're not going to lose 20, are you? To have cheap meat, milk to feed the people, you are sorry. Eight hundred million of them are able to fine your sanctions today completely to lay down the village. And what to do in the harvest, how to dry bread, and so forth. Don’t be devious, please, but work, waste energy, and look for ways to keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the sale of goods and services for]] Registration number 3128. Please vote. The first one goes 3128, Vaszczuk. Please vote, please vote. What's wrong? [[16:34:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these are alternative bills. What's next? Where to Vote? Then we'll have three drafts again before the second reading. What? Honorable colleagues, according to the Rules of Three Laws, who have obtained more votes, do not vote. When preparing for your second reading, please work on your suggestions. Bill 3128, adopted as a basis. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on a Congregation for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Harming is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2027. Rapporteur Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrines, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Fiolkovsky, Tsushko, Winski, Melniczuk, Seminogo and your humble servant under number 2027, is being submitted. The essence of this law differs from that of the law in force today. First of all, this law provides that the money that the state spends on the development of grapes, vegetables and hops is allocated to a unit of produced produce, if it's an old plantation or per hectare, if it's a new plantation. The adoption of the draft law will make it possible to make more transparent and transparent use of the budget allocated, to improve the management conditions of agricultural enterprises engaged in farming, gardening and hop farming. In addition, the law provides that these costs are returned to the State’s producers — as far as gardening and farming are concerned — by the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth years. As far as hops are concerned, it's the third and fourth years. It should be noted that the bill makes a technical error. [[this is for the protocol]] Articles 33, 34, 35 and 36 should read, according to register number one and number two. It only says number two. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the idea of a bill to define in detail exactly how the funds of the one-percent assembly are used, but it has a number of observations to the individual provisions of the bill. For example, in article 14, on the vague definition of the name of all - Ukrainian branch associations. These comments will be agreed upon and clarified when preparing the bill for second reading. With regard to the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on the distribution of the funds of the one-per-per-cent congregation approved by the order of the Minagropolitics and the Minfins, it seems to us that the order of distribution provided for in the project is more transparent and controlled. The conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters is that the bill has no direct impact on the income or expenditure of the budget. The drafters and members of the committee believe that the right proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies should be considered if this is a bill, and we ask that it be done in the first reading in preparation for the second reading. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Assembly for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Shrines, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, to be adopted as a basis. I'm asking you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u25	Thank you, Vasil Antonovich, please sit down. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who have been enrolled for discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u26	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, I will support and ask you to support the adoption of this law. Why? And to accept it only in the first reading, because I fully agree with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which, in truth, indicates that we need to do the first reading again. But I think that adoption in the first reading of this law, taking into account the observations that are possible. You might consider all of those comments because they're conceptually not a big influence on the situation. What do I mean? The situation that has arisen today, when the state does not support the development of its vineyarding, gardening and hops, has resulted in apples with you in Kiev costing up to 15 rubles, up to 15 rubles, bananas three times less, bananas are not growing, and apples are growing, and we could send them to other countries, and vice versa. So that the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops should be more open, transparent, and these costs should return, will totally improve all the conditions of all farms regardless of their forms of ownership. I think that the observations given by the Scientific and Experimental Authority in this case, where they apply to both the Audit and Audit Administration, and where it determines the order in which the recipients of the budget registers and the distribution of the funds indicated, can all be taken into account in the second reading of the project. So I would like to ask the national MPs today to support this bill, because it is a positive one. Of course, this bill should eliminate the definition, particularly that of a vineyard, an industrial vineyard, a table of grape varieties, just from the fact that you and I have already adopted the Grapes and Wine Act, where there is a definition of these definitions, and to repeat them, it is absolutely unnecessary to duplicate them. I would like to support this opinion and the opinion of the authors and the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u27	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u28	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember the 1990s when agriculture fell completely. And then the hops fell, and the grapes fell, and the gardening fell. And in 1999 a law was passed that established the congregation for the development of grapes, vegetables, and hops. And this congregation was formed with a price of vodka, wine, and beer. To some extent, the proposed congregation gave impetus to the resurgence of hops, gardening, and vineyarding. But the hardest place here was the distribution of those accumulated funds. You know what was done in manual mode at the time, it was done through the Cabinet of Ministers. It was down to district governments, and these funds were used to support businesses, usually close to one another. Today, it is suggested that the distribution be improved and made more transparent. This is no longer a matter of distribution under a specific name. It's about how many gardens, vineyards, or hops, how many products have been produced, how much is produced, how much is produced, how much is produced, how much is produced, how much is produced, how much is produced, how much is planted, and how much land will be allocated. It seems to me that in this respect the mechanism will be much better, and we will already have a situation when these costs reach every farm. But on the other hand, we have to think that this could be a purely communist or socialistic principle of distribution. We need the control we had, let's talk, back then. And that's the control issue right over there. We don't see much more of such a mechanism here. So we're going to have to work on improving this control, so that it doesn't have to be that the accumulated costs have spread between all businesses and have no effect. Because there are companies that are strong that change technology that have specialists who know what they want. And there are companies that are lying there, and give them the money, don't give them the money, they won't go up until they've made some kind of upgrade or some other kind of improvement in production. So the proposal of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to adopt this bill, but to think about how to improve the control mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u29	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People’s Party, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u30	Katerina Vaschuk, Volodymyr Litwina People's Party Dear colleagues! What is the situation today? You and I have adopted the Law in our time, the good Law on the congregation for the development of gardening, winemaking, and hops. In his early years, he produced good results. In addition, several thousand hectares of garden were planted in Ukraine, grapes, and hops. During a period of time, mechanisms were found to share it less honestly. And instead of looking for a mechanism to improve control, how to control the distribution, and these are the costs that one percent of us pay with you, buying wine, beer and so on, and it accumulates and divides in treasury. So instead of finding a good mechanism, the most realistic idea was that these costs would change the method of use. And how did the APC Ministry propose today to distribute the funds? They're going to go to 100 million to compensate for the percentages that they're going to take on farms to plant gardens, grapes, or hops. You show me a weirdo who's gonna take a loan that's not allowed in our country for a long time for the longest three years, and not know what percentage the state's gonna pay back, and plant a garden, grapes or hops that's gonna pay him back after about five, seven, eight years. So this is Vassil Calinchuk's bill, and he wants to break this harmful practice, and he wants to make it clear how that congregation should be used. I think the mechanism is right. Betrayed, you have a garden, for the production of the garden. How many grapes did you implement? It goes like a subsidy to the price of apples, grapes, hops. You don't have, you want to plant, you get paid for every hectare of land right here. Here you can get a loan because you have a guarantee that you'll get paid and you won't go bankrupt. So, dear colleagues, this is a law that needs to be passed in order to restore justice and support the garden, grapes. Hmil in our Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u31	Yes. Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took advantage of this right. May I have your attention, please? The Committee's proposal for adoption is based on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on a Congregation for the Development of Graduation, Gardening and Peasantry. Registration number 2027. Please vote. [[16:48:04]] For 290 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Land Code on Land Areas, registration numbers 4414, 4414-1, is being announced for consideration. Rapporteurs of the National MPs: Dobkin and Kosinov. Yes, Mikhailo Dobkin, please. You don't? Stanislav Kosinov, please. Vladimir Lechchenko will be speaking from the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u32	Kosinov, People's Party faction, 170th constituency, town of Harikov. The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, the distinguished people's deputies, the substance of the changes proposed in the bill is: today, under existing legislation for the placement of small architectural forms, this means that this space of up to 30 square metres, which are temporary, is constructed out of simplified structures without a foundation, is expected to be the same as any other facility, with an area of every ten thousand metres, of the same rules that are now required to apply to entrepreneurs primarily small and medium-sized businesses in order to accommodate either a tray or a kiosk for their business activities. Those who have encountered land-based documents may say that the deadlines for processing through a session of any level range from six months to one-and-a-half years. Thus, business actors, and I stress that this is primarily a small business, are in situations where, firstly, the time limits for the business itself, and secondly, the cost of processing the documents for the installation of the kiosk can be several times more than two to five times the cost of the temporary installation itself. In addition, we see today how contradictory legislation is in relation to a single tax. So today, small and medium-sized businesses are in a rather complex environment. The bill proposes to introduce an article in the “Final Position” of the Earth Code which would prescribe that the provisions of the Earth Code do not apply to small architectural forms. Thus, these changes will make it much easier for our entrepreneurs to run their own small and medium-sized business and will have a positive impact on the State budget. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, which will benefit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u33	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u34	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist faction of Ukraine. Nigga. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations reviewed draft laws amending the Ukrainian Code of Lands for the provision of small architectural forms by the Ukrainian National Deputies Dobkin and Feldman. Registration number 4414. And Kosinov, number 4414-1. The Committee notes that the proposed norm is contrary to articles 125 and 126 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which establish that the use of the land before its boundaries are established in the field and that a document certifying the right to land is prohibited. At the same time, the committee notes that this issue needs to be resolved, not by making changes to the Earth Code, but by simplifying the way in which small architectural forms are located. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to reject the bill. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the adoption of such a law would result in a reduction of income from local budgets from land rents and an unequal condition for business entities renting land. In view of the committee's presentation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u35	Thank you, too. Let's move on to the discussion. Two "for", two "against" we need. Yuri Carmazin. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Yuri Carmazin is invited to the performance, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the goal is to make it a good one. The speed of the formation and to make it easier. That's a good offer. But I personally have no support for this offer. Because of what? Because of a direct violation of the earth’s code, such as 125, 126 articles of the Codex earth. In addition, local budgets will clearly be reduced from rent. It will certainly lead to confusion, where land law will be applied. What does it mean? For how many years there is an Earth Code, we have now decided on the final positions of rule or transitional positions. Is that normal? In principle, this proposal should be rejected. If we want to ensure the speed of processing, practically removing corruption from this process, which is now happening in many cases, let's see how this is done, let's say, in Bloody Rose. Practically every permit is drawn up in a week. So in Bloody Rose, it turns out they can, and in other cities they can't. I have personally learned how clearly and exclusively a virtually permissible system works. There's only one window out there long ago. There you can put the papers and all the reconciliations through, and no small forms. Under small forms, it is now actually suggested that all land relations should be violated and that land areas should be allocated to place larceny and kiosks completely out of the field of land legislation. What this led to in Odessa at the time of the Bodelan clan's reign and during the cushmocracy, I can tell you. In front of the mayor, there is a kiosk that is covered by law enforcement officials. There's a prosecutor's deputy who does this, and there's a court decision in almost every small form. They make their own decisions, and the courts decide not to touch anyone, the local authorities don't intervene, and so on and so forth. Do you understand? This is really the other side of the problem. But I am firmly opposed to us adopting such a law. Because it will harm the entire system of legislation that there is. By the way, I liked the fact that the Ministry of Finance was against what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration had written that it was absolutely unworthy of law, that it should be rejected, that it impresses me. I ask you to reject this law. Thank you. I also support the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u37	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u38	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Here, honourable Members, the question is very difficult. And we don't have such a simple answer to that question, because on the one hand, they've just tortured these people who want to open up a business thing: you have to go into a million offices, take bribes, they'll miss you in a few sessions and not know when the outcome will be. On the other hand, if we look at this problem topically, yes, you know, through our fingers, we can get a situation where even the natural landscape will be changed, not to mention that there'll be congestion or pollution of territorial waters or anything else. Imagine, for example, the southern bank of Crimea. And you can imagine what's going on there now and what's going to happen then. That is why there is such a problem, but this problem needs to be solved in the best way possible. As for us, the representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party, it seems, we would have to apply the principle of the only window that we would like to introduce when registering the discovery of some entrepreneurial activity, so that officials would go through those offices themselves to reconcile. And so that they can really reconcile. That's our position. Otherwise, I think it's going to be a very bad decision, and we can generate a lot of problems of environmental character, problems of contamination, pollution of the territory that we're facing, literally, everywhere. I think we need to think more deeply about all these proposals here, although, honourable national MPs, I repeat that there is such a problem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u39	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u40	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the statement made by our previous colleague. He said there was such a problem. I'd like to ask those sitting here in this room: who hasn't had any business calls, what's a year and a half from now, who's been building a piece of land, who hasn't only taken money from him! And for the fire protection fund, and for the support of more troops, and for the support and development of something from local self-government and that sort of thing. And that's why I'm completely in solidarity with a colleague who said there was a problem. But if we don't adopt this law with you on first reading today, then we will leave the problem without a solution. So when it's said today whether or not to adopt this bill, I say yes. We must accept it on first reading, and then on second reading, it is normal to discuss all the issues that arise. Why? Because, for example, I was puzzled by another speaker who said that in the Horn of Curve, land was given in one week. My dear, well, don't be mean, I don't think they'll be putting a plot under the newsstand in this country in a week. That's under 20,000 square meters they can form in a day because there's someone there to protect and there's something to thank. A small businessman who has his own kiosk, and perhaps the only one, and usually the only piece of bread in the family, will be dragged from him by his dwellings, telling the truth of life. And the last. I'd like to draw your attention. All the allegations that we will bring this case to unspeakable chaos are also groundless, because today and under this law the decision to allocate this land to this unfortunate kiosk is still made by the local government. It's just that it's a little bit easier. But responsibility remains with the local authorities. So what's bad about my colleague at the People's Party of Kosinov, who says that responsibility remains in power, is the only thing that those who will give permission will choose the opportunity to apologize for the harsh word, to “bring” this small businessman to talk about what he is obliged to do as a colossal land, for everything he has to do to get permission, I stress to an inequitable kiosk that will have no foundation and which will be up to 30 square metres, I emphasize, respect the law. I repeat, therefore, that the bill provides an opportunity for small, small, small - whatever the case - businessmen, but much faster and less expensive to get what they are getting today. Only before that are they forced to give almost everything they have. I therefore consider and call upon all of us to support our colleagues, and in particular I propose to support my colleague in the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u41	Yes, Igor Shurma, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u42	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, the content of this issue is that the above-mentioned buildings and equipment are widely used by small businesses for retail trade, and since 2002, the process of maintaining documents for the temporary use of land has always been too complicated, affecting the development of small businesses in the country. I think that right now, when small businesses in Ukraine are experiencing bad times, it would be totally appropriate and timely to support entrepreneurs and agree with the above proposal. As for the question that the bill is based on, in our view, the bill 4414 is more suitable for this, because it proposes an expanded formulation of terms such as "stationary small architectural forms" and "movable small architectural forms." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. In accordance with the registration, we will put to the vote the first bill, the author of which is the national MP Dobkin and Feldman. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land, registration number 4414 for adoption as a basis. For-46 The decision is not taken. Ah, "For" is 46, no decision taken. The draft registration number 4414-1 for amendments to the Earth Code is now in the vote. The author is National Deputy Kosinov. He reported this project. Please vote. [[17:04:08]] For-44 This number of bills shows that they have no prospect. What is the proposal on the committee? And the committee offered to reject, honourable colleagues, so the bill was rejected. The draft Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for Dismantling or Dismantling Sugar Plants is being announced for consideration. Secretary of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Oleg Yukhnowsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your view is on the proposal of a bill introducing a moratorium on the dismantling or disassembly of sugar factories. This bill is designed to prevent the destruction of whole-scale sugar plants, the efficient use of their production capacities, the support of socio-economic development in the regions. The project is proposed to introduce moratoriums on the dismantling or dismantling of sugar factories as a whole property complex for the period up to 2010. The Cabinet of Ministers is also being proposed within three months to develop a State Programme for the restructuring of the beet-sugar sector, which provides for the retraining of non-performing sugar factories, the preservation of their social sphere and the allocation of funds from the state budget for these purposes. There are a number of comments to the draft law made by the National Deputies when they are discussed with the Professional Committee and the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which I think will be taken into account in furthering the second reading. However, given the situation in the beet-sugar complex, the industry needs an urgent solution to a number of issues. To a large extent, they are reflected in the Supreme Council’s ruling on parliamentary hearings. Since the decision is ignored, I hope that the adoption of the bill will encourage the government to take effective measures to improve the financial and economic situation in the field, to solve social problems, so that workers can finally be addressed. , Bersicki, Nemirivsky, and almost a hundred other sugar factories received a concrete answer that awaits them in the near future. [[And that's almost 50,000 highly qualified workers.]] Dear colleagues! Thank you for your attention and for your support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Puzakov. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we, I thank the National Deputy Yukhnovsky and Kaletnik, but I want to say that we, with the adoption of this law, are exactly five years late. Straight for five years, out of 192 factories, 90 factories are gone. And when we came from this rostrum to the Attorney-General's office, everyone else would not respond to what was happening when we cut a metal mill. And our profile committees didn't want to react. I want to emphasize that about 90 factories are no longer working. What region you can't take. Take the Matter from the north, the larger half didn't work there because it was cut. Unless we want to tackle the world of civilized countries that call themselves civilized. Hungary allowed a bunch of sugar factories, and now Mr. Ivancho tells us how Hungarians buy sugar from us. It's, thank God they're buying from us because there's something else going on. But it's for the benefit of another country. It's absolutely right, in principle, although, of course, it's not a market law, as our president, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, would say, that the law is not entirely marketable, but that it is necessary to introduce a moratorium on the deployment of sugar factories. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to the President of Ukraine: Victor Andriyovich, please, because you have a reliable first-aid kit there, and people's deputies won't be admitted, so please give an order to the Attorney General, the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to check out how the metal mills that could have been cut to shredded are now working. Above all, analyze the social consequences of those cuts. In fact, every village that owned this factory, the factory maintained the entire social infrastructure of this village, now it's all dying, people are impoverished. These social consequences, I'd like the government commission, I'd like the Presidential Commission to take the lead with the first assistant and check it out. I want to believe that when we change power, we're going to have a new quality state. And that's what you need to cut the deadlines, not within three months, but within the government's monthly deadline, because that's his daily job. And this law needs to be passed, and if you want, in the first or second reading right now, because we're already five years late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u47	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u48	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština One independent newspaper reads: "By reforming agriculture, there has been an opportunity to increase the production of sugar beet by new agro-forming, individual owners and producers. " I'd like to hear the answer to this question: whether or not the so-called reform of the agricultural sector has led to the total loss of sugar factories that cut them into scrap metal. For example, in the past year, out of 192 sugar factories, half and 34 of them were cut into scrap metal and not renewable. Thanks to the reform of Ukraine, which in Soviet times supplied 3 million tons of sugar, it now ran out of it and its price in the store for 3 pounds [3 kg] of 80 copies and in Soviet times for 78 copies. So quickly new owners lost the sugar industry completely. Take a look at the data that was sent to my address by the sugar producers in the Winnitsk region. The area under sugar beet crops in 1990 is 203,000 hectares, and in 2004 it is 108 thousand hectares. Gross production: 90 - about six million tons of sugar, 1.7 million tons in 2004. Average fertility: 90 - 383 centimetres per hectare, in 2004 - 207 centimetres per hectare. Sugar production: 90 years: 751,000 tons, 2004: 165 thousand tons. The number of beet harvesters decreased by 41.9 percent. Last year, only 22 of the 38 factories worked. And this is Winnichtina, who, compared to other regions of Ukraine, produced the largest crops of sugar beet. Over 150 years, 38 sugar factories have been built on Winnitzkin. So 1 pound [5 kg] of sugar was vinyl. And that was the case with sugar production in every region of Ukraine. What can we talk about today? That is the state’s bitter new reformers, for which they have received and received government rewards. And unfortunately, it was only today that we decided to introduce a moratorium on the dismantling of sugar factories when there was almost nothing left. And in Kirovgrad, instead of 11 sugar factories, three are left, and they work in half capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u49	Please, John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u50	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. In order to vote in favour of this bill, we, the people's deputies, need to understand what is happening to the Ukrainian village, to the Ukrainian economy, the beet industry, what is the sugar plant for the village where it is. Because it's not a secret that weeding is a good technology for machine building, it's good technology for protecting plants and many, many other things. And this sugar plant, it's always been surrounded by a lot of very smart engineering workers, very smart people. And so these were whole cities of culture, these were whole centers of culture in these vast areas of our rural life. This is something that we should always keep in mind. I'm not talking about the economic benefits of weeding anymore. So, dear friends, we have to realize that dismantling the factories that had happened before was a means of competing and not only in the middle of Ukraine, but also in the regional dimension. Who of you doesn't know if we can remember their performances here in the Supreme Council when I told you that factories are buying Russian capital, not to revive their work, but to stop them and take down competitors! Then you disobeyed me. Today, by dismantling these factories, destroying them, we destroy raw zones! And if we've seen everyone destroy another plant today in order to intercept the reprocessing of the cane or not in some other way, we have to answer today, like the network of factories that we have today, how do we put the raw materials under it? Who thought about it today? But no, they cut, no one thinks about it, and we are burying the very bereavement in Ukraine, what is of great value to us. But there is a great need for sugar in the world. This appropriation A ton of today's deficit in the sugar world. That's why markets are sold. The problem needs to be transferred only to the level of competitiveness of the Ukrainian sugar producer. Here we have to think about other technologies. What are we doing today? Today we're implementing the technology where we store sugar. In the world, technologies are being introduced to store raw materials. And this factory's been running for a year. This factory gives jobs to people throughout the year. And there's no such retorts, there's no distortions. So, honourable people's deputies, we have to talk today about how the situation is very difficult in this agricultural sector, that we need to restore it, that we need to take care of the formation of raw zones, that we need to apply new technology. That's why I'm here to stop the dismantling of sugar factories, because they're very important to us in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u51	And that's right. Nigger Volodymyr. I can't see. Please, Zizko, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u52	Sergey Zisko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable deputies! Ukraine’s sugar industry has long faced the issue of modernizing it. European countries are technologically rebuilding the sector by gradually moving away from the exploitation of low-powered, unpredictable sugar plants, increasing the capacity of those enterprises that ensure efficient production. So France’s sugar industry has been shrinking almost twice in recent years. As a result, the daily processing capacity of raw materials per sugar plant increased from 4 to 7.8 thousand tons. Our current sugar industry is over 50 years old. Back in the early 1998 ’ s, the National Sugar Association offered to determine the list of basic sugar factories, based on their capacity, the state of wear, the territorial location, and so forth. Because it's known that even overheating a barrel of 25 million tons during a sugary period is enough to have 40 to 50 factories with a capacity of over 5,000 tons of barrels per day. Yet, such basic sugar factories are still not defined, and under the current circumstances, when the vast majority of sugar factories have become private or corporate property, the problem is not being solved. A factory that is currently not effective by objective means can receive investment and may eventually become a modern and powerful enterprise. So, in my opinion, MinAPC's leadership would be worth having a meeting with the owners of sugar factories and setting up a strategy for further development of the sector. The closure of several dozen sugar factories is an objective requirement of time, for not all businesses will be able to re-exploit or be used in any way. But sugar factories are usually settlement-creating enterprises. The closure of the sugar plant is a problem compared to ensuring the employment of its former workers and supporting the infrastructure of the villages associated with them. In such cases, when the closure of the sugar plant is not to be avoided, the state and regional authorities need to create preconditions for the development of local processing and food industries, not only because it is the simplest option, but perhaps a set of mini-enterprises capable of providing the daily use of the products of both the plant’s village and several neighboring villages. At relatively low cost, it is possible to turn the doomed population into a promising town. As for the bill, I do not think that its approval will solve the problems involved because it is an attempt to interfere with the activities of the operators. The state must find legal and more effective means of development.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u53	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. The reason for the vote is Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear colleagues, surely we will now support this bill, perhaps too late, but we will. But the next step, I'd like to go to the First Deputy Minister of the APC to John Demczak to immediately bring in a bill to support the effective cultivation of sugar beet so that the peasant can have an interest in growing sugar beet. Because we can see that there is no raw base in the factories that are still working and able to work now. The farmers began to grow sugar beet ineffectively. Parliament, I think my colleagues are ready to support a bill that will support those who will grow sugar beet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u55	Thank you. The factions have already come out, so two is going to be too much. I'm sorry. We'll vote. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for the Dismantling or Dismantling of Sugar Plants. Registration number 6113. I remind you that we recently held parliamentary hearings and urged the adoption of a similar bill. Please vote. "For." - 259. Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich, who is very strict in his view of compliance with the Rules, suggested that he be accepted as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? There's a denial. We won't. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 39, communists - 52, Ukrainian - 9, People's Party - 24, Socialist - 26, Block Timoshenko - 17, Ukrainian People's Republic - 23, Social Democrats - 11, Ukraine - 19, Dem. Ukraine - 15, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 7, Democratic initiatives - 8, non-fractional - 9. The leading faction, the BUT faction, denies. Let us consider the next question. As respectable colleagues, we are moving on to the consideration of issues, to a return to previously unsupported issues. Here we have two questions. Therefore, fellow believers, be careful. I am voting to go back to the previously unsupported issue of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine to increase the employment rate of the rural population. Registration number 7034. Please vote. [[17:23:11]] For 310 We're back on the subject. This is what Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, you remember apparently last time this law stumbled upon the fact that it was designed in two versions: one of the laws was written by me and Terjehochin, the other by Kuzmenko. You asked us to work and make a joint bill to correct that mistake. The only point in this law, which is very important, is that we allow businesses that work on the donor raw material, which is used to produce finished products that are completely exported outside the customs border of Ukraine, in a time that does not exceed 90 calendar days, which is the day after the clearance procedure for that tax commodity is completed. This rule does not extend to transactions involving taxable taxive raw materials and subcontractive ready - to - produce. Dear colleagues! This bill will allow many businesses to work today: and small sewing companies that import tax materials and have jobs, and are able to account for income taxes; and those enterprises that are given jobs by other non-taxable goods, and those that are given jobs on the donor raw materials. [[It's not oil, it's not alcohol, it's not wine.]] We on the committee have calculated that we have many of these enterprises, and we can lose, if this law doesn't work, we can lose more than 7,000 jobs, which is painful for Ukraine today. So, dear colleague, there is an offer to support such a simple but necessary bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u57	Thank you. There's no question, because it's a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues! Shall we discuss it? Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[to increase the employment rate of the rural population]] Please vote. "For" - 330. The profile committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. It's like the law. Is there a denial? If there's a denial, we won't. Prepare for the second question, for the second reading. Dear colleagues, be careful, we still need to make a decision to return to the previously unsupported decision on land agreement on the location of objects and the purchase of land, registration number 7035. Please vote. [[17:27:14]] For-142 We're not back. Let's work. Yes. Let's move on to the agenda and make a decision, and I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration today of the draft Law on the Use of Certain Agricultural Products for State Interventions, registration number 7311. Please vote. For -106 In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 36, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, People's Party - 6, Socialist Party - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 22, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, Social Democrats - 4, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "Industry, Entrepreneurs - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 6. [[United]] Not supported, I'm afraid. Then I put to the vote the question of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Fixed Agricultural Taxation. [[on the extension of the tax payer circle]] [[Registration number 7081]] Please vote. [[17:29:26]] For-143 The question is not included. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine. [[on terminology]] [[Bill 7178 registration number]] Please vote. For -256 The question is included. If there is no objection, we will consider it as a reduced procedure. Please report to Tomic Ivan Fedorovich. Please. Prepare for the committee of Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. On June 26, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, which entered on January 1, 2005. Pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Act, a bill has been drafted with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy by a group of national deputies, which has been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, amending the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Market in Ukraine since 14 March 2005. [[Registration number 7178]] Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the bill will ensure the introduction of the provisions of the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act in accordance with the Law on State Support for Agriculture. In particular, the legislation of the Grain and Crop Market Act in Ukraine will take into account the position and requirement of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Particularly important is the creation of an agrarian state fund aimed at maintaining adequate food security, establishing government food reserves, and carrying out commercial or financial intervention in the agricultural market. Today, before the 2005 harvest, this is extremely important. It is the full provision of the Law on State Support and Amendments to the Grain Market Act that can provide a stable security for price policy in the 2005 crop market. This is an extremely important question for the vast majority of agricultural enterprises. In connection with the introduction of new mechanisms, the terminology of a number of definitions is changing with regard to public agrarian interventions and state-owned seed purchases. Thus, the bill amends articles — the first, the second, the fifth, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the Grain and the market. Taking into account the importance of adopting the bill, the Supreme Council Committee requests that the bill be adopted in the first reading and in general. In terms of terms, since the terms for the conversion of grain were foreshadowed in the first May, since it is now practically June, by July 1st, the term for the conversion of grain is to be noted in transitional positions. Thank you. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may Sergey Mikolaiovich forgive me, but there is no logic to report to the head of the committee, and then he will be subject to the head of the subcommittee. Maybe there's pressure? Well, please, quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u60	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. The final provisions of the Law on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine, which we adopted in June 2004, clearly state that we should bring all legislation into line with this law. This is exactly what is required for the adoption of this bill. The changes apply only to a few articles. They're in the correlation table, they're clear, they're clear. This is more about terminology. At a meeting of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, a unanimous vote was taken and we ask for the support of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u61	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Shall we vote? Well, John the Rabbit is very insistent. Give him a minute. Well, three, please, Ivan Alexanderovich. I know you're an avid farmer. They graduated from the academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u62	And not only finished, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u63	And they've been working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u64	And he worked in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u65	And he worked in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u67	And successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u68	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which John Tommy reported, is clearly to be accepted, we will accept it, because it is only about bringing terminology into line with the adoption of the law. So this is actually a formal, formal proposal. But I would like to draw your attention to the deep problems -- how to inhale into this law the spirit that will allow today's grain market to work, because you understand perfectly that there is no grain market in Ukraine. You are well aware that today the grain grower sells it to the grain traders for a penny. And that's why we need to talk today and look for a way out in two planes: one plane to break down that monopoly of grain traders, we need to put in place a system that would allow competitive mechanisms to be launched that would allow us to master grain markets today. And on the other hand, we have to run those markets that are in every area, but they're essentially not working today. So today, the grain producer finds himself in a situation that he is not even comfortable growing this grain. Who today doesn't know that millions of tons of grains just disappear, just lie there? And it's not moving anywhere because there's no quota. If our nation had introduced quotas, we could have set a price for grain, and we would have been working on markets at a higher price. There's no quota, there's no price. The one who is supposed to buy it does not buy it because he does not want to buy it at a normal price, and the agricultural producer is simply failing with such a policy today. So I'm proposing and drawing your attention to the very depth of these problems, not to formal signs. We're going to adopt this bill, but we don't really solve the problem with this approach. I'd even like to offer more: a way to devote one day to discussing this problem, because we're going to have trouble producing this grain, with it, more faithfully, with non-realization this year. I'm driving across Ukraine, I see how wonderful we have this winter, what a beautiful wedge of bright cultures, and I'm knocking on a tree to make it happen the way I want it to, and how every peasant wants it. So, honourable national MPs, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party urges you to adopt this bill, but to work to make sure that today, indeed, the grain market and the peasants have a penny for that hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u69	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. When do you drive when you're on the rostrum all the time? The discussion was concluded. So, honourable colleagues, let's support the proposal of a committee of profile for the adoption of this law as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[17:38:22]] For 308. We voted in general, the law was passed. Thank you. We need to put it into the agenda and look at the draft law on resource security for oil products. Bill 7431 registration number. Please vote. For - 185 Dear colleagues, we're talking about joining the agenda. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 52, "Regions of Ukraine" - 17, People's Party - 26, Socialist - 25, Block of Timoshenko - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, Social Democrats - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Afterfractional" - 8. [[United]] Shall we go back to the bill? No, it's not. You might ask. It is necessary to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Agriculture Act, registration number 7455. [[on State support for emerging economies]] Please vote. [[17:40:11]] For 261 Questions are included in the agenda, and we are considering a simplified procedure. Please, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic on the rostrum. Prepare for the Melnichuk Committee. Well, the committee head will report again, and the committee members will be correcting it. But you could combine it, because he's the author, the head of this same committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! June 19 of this year will be the third anniversary of the adoption of the Law on Farming in this Hall, where 289 national deputies supported the bill. Regrettably, I have to say that for three years the financial security of this law has been implemented by up to seven percent. Regrettably, on May 31st, even today, Ukrainian farmers have not yet received the 33 million dollars in the 2005 budget. In accordance with the law, there were inaccuracies. Inaccuracies regarding the delimitation of support for state-owned farms created with separate gardens and other farms created since 1991. To this end, the bill has been introduced to clarify articles 9, 10, 11, 26 on the clear delimitation of State support for categories of data and the procedure for using a transparent, understandable scheme for farms that meet the deadline of more than 3-5 years on the reverse basis of funds from the State Farm Support Fund. So by taking this problem down, we're clearly opening up possibilities for changing the Cabinet of Ministers' decision. In principle, in the absence of this decision to a large extent, it was not possible to finance it, and the past government had just blocked the financing of farms. So I'm convinced that by adopting changes to this law, we're going to unlock the use of funds and finally give the opportunity to get real money to Ukrainian farmers. Thank you for your attention and for your support. The committee is asking for support, and the committee unanimously supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u71	Thank you. The committee's about to be told. Please, Melniczuka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u72	I'm here, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u73	Say it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Of course, we must support this bill, which awaits 46,000 farmers in Ukraine, and it is certain that everyone present in this room must be determined. In fact, I propose to support everyone who is present in the hall, every faction, because we have really started the agricultural movement in Ukraine in due course, and so far we have not been able to help the farmers emotionally, or we have not felt what the state is doing, and we have been able to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u75	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Then we'll vote. And please, Karmazin's microphone, it's on tape. The rest of the volunteers raise their hands the next day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we need to adopt this law now, but we need to take into account the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. It suggested, in particular, that a terminological design should be changed to replace "new farms, farms and farms with separate gardens" with "new farms, farms with separate gardens and other farms". It is also suggested that the farmers’ association be the founder of credit unions. It's also the right thing to do. And I'm paying attention to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't want us to change the Customs Tariffs Act all the time and not import anything here, let's give farmers a "long" money, not "short" money, not for three, but for five years at least. And remember this, let the head of the National Bank, and let Timoshenko, and let Yushchenko, let everyone understand until we do it, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u77	Thank you. Kalinczuk, one minute. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Of course, this bill will be supported by our faction, because the essence of this law is that, according to a valid text, such support to farmers is provided to only two categories, and the authors of this bill have rightly pointed out that all other farmers should be given support. At the same time, we have a point. The position of the bill, which is proposed to allow the public association of farmers and private landowners of Ukraine to be founders of credit unions, is somewhat inconsistent with the Ukrainian Credit Association Act. Article 1 of the Law provides that the founders of credit unions may be natural persons, professional associations and their associations, that is, some clarification is needed, and in general we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u79	Yeah, let's count to two. Yes, John the Rabbit, a moment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u80	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I agree that this bill should be adopted, but again, honourable national deputies, what is it about? The point is that the requirement will be to distribute 33 million dollars. If we have 33,000 farmers, that's 1,000 dollars per farmer. So we have to put a lot more money into the budget next year if we're going to have a developed agriculture. And the second, personal agriculture, the Ukrainian People's Party in general, is surprised: why are they today not balanced with other forms of rural production? Why are they being used today simply to steal the pie and privatize the pie? For nothing else, it has absolutely nothing to do with supporting these farms, and they are producing very much agricultural produce today. So let's vote for that bill, but let's think about others.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u81	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, please follow him Sulkovsky and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u82	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are today adopting a series of bills that will significantly improve the agricultural situation if they are, of course, implemented. I want to put an emphasis on that. We need to start funding immediately, even now, those decisions that we have taken that are legally secured, even those that are not used in the budget. This year, 33 million dollars have been allocated to finance newly created farms, and no bracelet has yet been used, and no money has been allocated. So we need to strengthen the Supreme Council's control function. Not only do we have to adopt the right laws, but we have to control them so that the government can implement them, and we need to call on the government to start funding immediately for the funds already allocated in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u83	Thank you. We're going to do a polytreform, we're going to control the government. Please, the Sulkovian Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, the distinguished national MPs when we listened to the reporter in this project, John Tomic, mean, yes. We're socialists today, really, the truth is painfully spoken, but we don't need to be deceived. For example, if at least 7 percent of the previous government has been paying attention and funding, the new government does not spend any money on farms today. And today I want to say that the name of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is headed by Mr. Baranowski, a socialist. And how is it that today the heads of the bush should be pushed and so wicked, lying to the farmers and the Ukrainian people that you are stinging for? Well, that's a shame, that's not right. So I don't think today's government is going to help with this. He needs to be asked by today’s government why he is so mistreated by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, Mr. Baranowski, the Socs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u85	The discussion is over. Let's help the government, let's help the farmers. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Farming. [[on State support for emerging economies]] [[Registration number 7455]] We're in a friendly vote for it, of course. [[17:50:22]] For 338 Thank you. Well, the chairman has the right to vote and his thoughts. So I said it. A replica? Let's finish, I'll give you a line, I'll give you one. The factions, please. 75 "Our Ukraine"; Communists -55; "Regions of Ukraine" - 36; People's Party - 33; Socialist - 26; Block Timoshenko - 22; Ukrainian National - 24; Social-Democracy - 12; "Only Ukraine" - 15; "Democratic Ukraine" - 19; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5; "Democratic Initiatives" - 6; non-fractional - 10. [[United]] Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes. We have one question left. I think we're going to take a quick look at it. Michaela. Your last name wasn't called. That's why I'm not giving you a line. Baranowski was called, he's not here. Let's finish the question, then we'll do it wisely, don't get excited. I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on pension insurance for workers in agricultural enterprises who pay fixed agricultural taxes. Registration number 736. About inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote. [[17:52:00]] For-187 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 51, "Regions of Ukraine" - 28, People's Party - 25, Socialists - 26, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, Social-Democratic - 2, "One Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 11, "Afterfractions - 7. [[united]] Please, Yukhnovsky. Then Sas. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm still asking you to go back to Project 7206 and include it in the review. This is about the premium categories of farmers who are mechanically engineered and those who have been engaged in animal production, who are entitled to a retirement benefit. Now there's a situation where the Pension Fund is doing a calculation or calculation for these categories of pensions from households. The problem is that such farms no longer exist in nature. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's This category of people can simply stay in the current year without pensions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come back and support the question, this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u87	Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas, please. Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to re-vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7311 on the use of certain agricultural products for State intervention. The bill defines the intervention mechanism by the State Committee of Ukraine from the State Material Reserve to satisfy the internal consumer market. The Cabinet of Ministers has defined this bill as extracurricular. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u89	Let's do the exchange first from Bill 7206. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, we would certainly need to return to this law and restore justice. See, this room voted for benefits from various categories of people — military, steel, miners, prosecutors, and militia. And all of them are paid by the state, which means that they retire to a reduced retirement age. And only the peasants. The Supreme Council also made a decision. But these pension benefits are for a milkmaid who has the right to go out at 50 years of age if she has the right age as a nurse, a mechanic. They're making them pay for the farms they came out of. And agriculture is not everywhere anymore. And those who have survived, why should they do so? The decision was taken by the Supreme Council. Let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u91	Please, from the government. There are two ministries. Dimczak Ivan Mikitovich is the first deputy and Hotch. [[Ministry of Agriculture Policy]] I'll be with you in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u92	The Ministry supports this bill on pension benefits that would not pay for the farm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u93	Thank you. Yes, please, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hotch Helen Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u94	Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you that no pension can be delayed today just because the company does not pay the premiums. Therefore, it is not necessary today for the audience to have a wide audience at the meetings of the Supreme Council, so let the pensioners who receive a pension or who are going to leave the company not survive: the financing of pensions is carried out and will be carried out without delay. The question is: And no matter what kind of premiums come from the insurance companies. But the question is that we're making more than a billion dollars from the State budget for regular pensions today. Farmers who receive early retirement benefits should be compensated for by enterprises. Applying these changes since 1 January 2006 is another issue, but we can't make these issues in the middle of the fiscal year. That's a scientific observation. Therefore, this issue needs to be approached more comprehensively and in a balanced way. So I would suggest that people's deputies consider this issue on an agrarian pension policy committee and come to a common understanding, and today the law does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u95	Thank you. Darling, please, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! I want to express the Committee's opinion, I was authorized to do so from the rostrum. Thus, the Committee believes that, with all the comments that exist, we today have every reason to adopt the bill on first reading and then to clarify the dates of the introduction and everything else. But there is a problem, and it must be addressed in a normal civilised manner. The Committee on Pensioners, Persons with Disabilities and Veterans therefore proposes that the bill be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u97	Yes, dear fellows! There were suggestions to go back to this bill, and to the bill that Sass proposed -- 7311. We are voting on these proposals. I put it to a vote: to return to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws on Pension Insurance for Agricultural Employees of Fixed Agricultural Tax Payers. Registration number 736. About getting into the daytime. Please be supportive. [[17:59:10]] For 276 Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we discussed the issue of inclusion in the agenda. Now I'm going to take the floor on the grounds of the vote of Matthew -- and we're going to vote. Please, Matthew. Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u98	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, indeed, pension is the most painful subject to date. And the problem is not even that the pension is miserable, but the problem is the injustice in the system that we have created today with the provision of pensions. We got everybody down, who worked, who didn't work. Today they are in the same conditions. What's going on in the village? Of the 13 million pensioners, six million live in the country today. And who do we support? There's a misunderstanding. The traders who took the land for rent, which the peasant bag, excuse me, wheat gives for this land that they exploit, today we release it from the tax on the pension fund, thereby transferring this pension to those who are now with the martens, the domain stoves, the mountains and so on and so forth. So what do we do best for the State, and what do we do best for whom? Who are we looking after? The pensioner, whose six million live in the village, gets a pension from the Pension Fund through the savings system, what we are investing today. And what we're asked to do today is free, we're going to say that, plus everything else, and we're going to do this whole thing, so we're not going to do the pensioner, we're going to do the work of this peasant, and we're going to do the speculating and stuffing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u99	Yes, please, Kirilchuk. He's behind him, Kalinchuk. In a minute. You? Kalinczuk is ahead of you now. Look at the monitor. Please, Kirilchuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A recent speaker does not know the situation completely. The point is, it's not the village pensioner's fault that someone took away his land or something. I think this bill needs to be supported. It is only a matter of putting it into payment or operation. Because if we vote for him now, he'll be signed by September 15th, and he can be counted in the next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u101	Yes, dear colleagues, now. Don't get excited! Everything's going fine. It's all going down! I remind Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, who is absolutely right and reminds us of the article in the budget code. We do not accept it in general, and so when we accept it in the second reading, we will certainly settle the issue of putting it into action, there are no problems here, and now let us take it off, because we will only accept it in the first reading. Kalinczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Our faction has repeatedly raised this question because there is inequality in the countryside. Some get a pension, others who, according to the law, have to pay pensions, and these are mechanics and milkmaids who have to retire at 50 and 55 years, they can't get a pension because we don't have the necessary funds. And rural reform has led to the fact that there are no successors anymore. And I don't agree with those who speak up and compare rural pensioners who are now living and working in the countryside and the land that they've given to others to rent, to those who work in other areas of our country. So I think we need to adopt this law in the first reading, and we need to introduce it as necessary from January 1, 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u103	Thank you. Please, Nigger, one minute and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to the argument made by deputy Matvienkov, which is really convincing. But it is not always necessary to vote for a convincing argument. Sometimes we have to vote for the situation. The fact is that 60 million dollars is not such a big problem for those who are being translated into it, although it really is. But 6 million pensioners living in the village will get that money and the problem will solve a lot. So maybe as a palative decision, what's more in the middle of the year, and if from January 1st of next year, you can, given the whole set of circumstances, close your eyes and press the "for" button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u105	Thank you. I support you, too. Moreover, those who have opposed have a fairly active agricultural sector in themselves. Carmazine and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the National People's Party, I want you to think: 65 million dollars will have to be put into the budget next year. If we write that down, we have to write it down from January 1, 2006. I want you to compare this amount and double the amount. I'll remind you that only 111 million have been paid to conduct Euroworking in Ukraine. Well, let's compare two problems, two huge problems. On the one hand, the poor people, on the other hand, the problem of our image. Therefore, from a legal point of view, there are no warnings that we should write here: "and the persons whose pensions are assigned according to points c, there are the same articles 13 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act," there are no problems. This is true of those who worked on underground jobs, mines, and mines. They made it a long time ago and ten times as much. Let's give it to them and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u107	Thank you, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the adoption of a bill in the first reading of the draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on pension insurance for farm workers who pay fixed agricultural taxes. [[Registration number 7206]] Please vote. [[18:06:21]] For-286 Copy that. Dear colleagues, be careful! If we write down now that it's going into effect since January 1, 2006, and we're going to accept it as a law as a whole, can we go like this? I am voting to accept it as a law, but with mandatory entry into force on January 1, 2006. Please vote. [[18:07:03]] For 279 Thank you. The law was passed with its entry into force on 1 January, I reiterate, in 2006 so that we do not violate the Code of Budgets. So please, we had another suggestion to go back to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Use of Certain Agricultural Products for State Interventions, registration number 7311. [[6:07:50]] Z-85 Even less than I got the first time. That's why we're not coming back. I promised Melniczuk a replica. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u108	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear friends, when discussing the agricultural bill, it was certainly a challenge for the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that not only do you need to be supported in words, but also that your faction should vote. The answer is this: The Ministry of Agricultural Policy is not responsible for financing farms. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which has so far not developed the methodology, the arrangements for financing farms in six months. I've reminded myself of this many times. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly claimed this, called on Pinzenik, and the method of financing farms has not yet been developed. That's why the Ministry of Industrial Policy isn't here at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-31-m1.u109	Thank you. But, dear colleagues, do not call those who cannot answer you. Today we have fully implemented the order of the day that is set for today. I would like to remind you that tomorrow we will be starting meetings at 10 a.m., discussing issues related to the observance of constitutional rights and freedoms and also the events that have taken place with regard to national deputies recently in the city of Uzhgrad. At 3 p.m., we have questions to discuss with you at the parliamentary hearings related to the 2006 Budget Resolution. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
