ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, please don't ask me any questions, I'm not going to announce any of them today. It's time to have a conscience, sorry. You come up every time and you promise that I'm going to give you the last time and every time. I understand, but you understand the leader. Please prepare for registration. Yes, please turn on the "Race" system, let's register. [[10:02:49]] There are 403 national deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council is open. Please listen to the results of the Supreme Council's plenary meeting on November 3rd. We've discussed 32 issues of the agenda with you. As a result of their consideration, 9 laws and 10 regulations were passed, 4 bills were adopted as a basis. One bill was intended to be drafted, and one bill and two draft decrees were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, three laws have been passed in a new edition, and one law has been repealed. Honorable Colleagues, in accordance with Article 2.5.2. Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to make proposals to the people’s deputies, to make inquiries, to make statements, to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In view of the fact that we have almost an hour, if there are no more requests, we will not be able to make any inquiries in 30 minutes, so if your agreement is to work without interruption and then we will be able to compensate a little. Is there any objection? Yes, please, but I can read better, but you can write less. Please listen to the announcement in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, articles 4.2.1, 4.2. As of November 1, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the Political Party’s parliamentary faction “Go, Ukraine!” have been briefed on the restructuring of the parliamentary faction of the political party “Go, Ukraine!” in the Lithuanian People’s bloc’s parliamentary group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The delegation of the People’s bloc of Lithuania is composed of 18 national deputies. National Deputy Igor Fedorović was elected Head of the National Group of Lithuania. People’s deputies, Sharov and Noshchenka, were elected as authorized representatives of the group. All the necessary documents have been scrupulously prepared. [[B in m in s a l in]] Biography will be personal. Another announcement: In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the entry of Ukraine's National Deputy Unspalled Oleg Pavlovich into the “One Ukraine” party. Thus, in “One Ukraine ” 14 national deputies. Such requests were made by the national MPs. A PANASOVSKI Oleg to the President of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Measures to Improve the Efficiency of Electricity Management, of 22 January 2004. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:06:38]] For-189 Request supported. We're voting on the President's request. Vote [[10:06:57]] For-200 No decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the conformity of the actions of the highest officials of the State proclaimed in the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, the acts of declaration of independence of Ukraine for the purposes confirmed by the will of the people in the Universal referendum on December 1st, to be a permanently neutral, non-locked and non-nuclear state. [[SOLOMATAN, ALEXIEV, AND OTHERS]] Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:07:42]] For-179 Supported. There is a vote on the referral of a request, a decision on the referral of a request to the President. Vote. [[10:08:02]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Nechiporeka to the President of Ukraine on corruption in the higher echelons of power, violation of the rights of investors. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:29]] For-151 Supported. It is up to the President to vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:08:49]] For 227 Decision taken. The Group of Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the Inadmissibility of Further Delay with the appointment of a Chief Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine, whose post has been vacant for more than eight months, which has a major impact on the efficiency of the state's sanitary and epidemiological services. [[JAVORY, BONDARENKO]] We vote in favour of the request. But if I'm not mistaken, yesterday or yesterday someone was assigned there, maybe this is the job. [[10:09:28]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, on the situation at the Lightwater plant “Calculator”. Vladimir ĆENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the appeal of shareholders – veterans of the Cherkas machine factory Petrovsky for the violation of their rights. Mr. Andria Polita to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister on the next attempt by the Odessa City Head to rename Lenin Komsomol Park and change other toponymic names. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Head of the Supreme Council for his dissatisfaction with the response of Mintrance to the application for the implementation of article 23 of the Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” Mr. Andria Derkača to the Prime Minister, Head of the Suma District State Administration for the delay of executive officials in resolving the issue of the provision of medical equipment to the Deaf M.S. Gennady GORLOVA to the Prime Minister on the regulation of rules for the carriage of goods by rail. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Prime Minister for the prevention of accidents and technological disasters in housing and utilities and for the execution of investment projects. Mr. Vladimir Simonov to the Prime Minister regarding the selection of personnel in the Government Office for Affairs of the President of Ukraine. It's a soap opera. Well, I'm sorry, I'm going to do a trailer, and I'm going to remind you that the Prime Minister is not allowed to write about the selection of personnel at the President's Office, because the Prime Minister has nothing to do with this, because it's the President's appointment and release. I mean, this is where the president needs to be sent. Vladimir, Mikli MELNIKA, I'm sorry, to the Prime Minister for financing the installation of the Mogilov-Podil gas boiler. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Prime Minister for the non-recovery of the State budget subsidy for the construction of a gas pipeline to the villages of Ksaverevka and Lisogor Winnicki district, pursuant to Cabinet Order No. 639 of 29 July 2005. Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister for the approval of food sets, non-food products and services to set the subsistence minimum for 2006 and include it in the budget next year. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the work of the Beikow plant of the Romanov district of the Žitomir region. JANUARY to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the issue of the acquisition of a surdo apparatus for the Republic’s Children’s Hospital of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister for failure to carry out the Prime Minister’s commission to conduct an official investigation. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Head of the DPA on the state of the financial and economic indicators of the region of Suma, the tax liability of wages, other compulsory payments, the creation of jobs in comparison with other regions in 2005. [[KARENKO, CHOICE, AND OTHERS]] Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on the establishment of the State Eastern Centre for Health, Occupational and Social Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. [[COMAR, TURMAN, AND OTHERS]] Anatoly of Korczynski and Mikhail Melniczuk to the Prime Minister on the situation that arose after the change of the route of the Černovci-Kyiv trains. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister about the delay in the subsidy to build the Gribok-Cobolcin gas pipeline of the Sokirian district of Cherniewice. Leonida GRAČ to the Prime Minister on the threat to the activities of totalitarian sects in Ukraine and the situation surrounding the Monastery Cemetery on the Castle Mountain, where the Trinity Church was formerly located and the iconic church of the Kazan Mother of God, which is the historic territory of the Holy Woznesen Women's Monastery, and is currently under the protection of the Office for the Protection of the Monuments of History, Culture and the Historical Environment of Kiev. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the allocation of funds for the gasification of the population of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Leonida Kadenjuka to the Prime Minister for the completion of the school in the village of Rukshin in the district of Czernovetsec. The Group of Deputies (GOLUB, CHELNOKOV and others) to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine for the preparation of a draft decree by the President of Ukraine on the liquidation of the State Service for the supervision of aviation security, which will result in the destruction of domestic air carriers. The left of the deaf to the Prime Minister on violations of the Constitution's rail transport and language legislation in the area of passenger service. ROBERT to the Prime Minister about the facts presented in the address of the Deputy Bahchisarai District Council of Zaczok about the identified places of unknown burials. Mr. Stanisława STREBKA to the Prime Minister on the situation surrounding the container terminal of the Ilchiv Seaport. Jurya Shirka to the Prime Minister for non-fulfilment of the National Energy Shareholder Energy Company Energoat social obligations to the territorial community of Kuznetsovsk Ravniska oblast. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the benefit of the disabled by telephone. The Left Deaf to the Prime Minister on the need for the dismissal of officials of the Cabinet of Ministers who failed to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Establishment of a National Memory Institute in Kiev. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Kyiv City Head for additional funding from the State Budget for the construction of the metropolis in Kiev. Boris RYKOVA to the Prime Minister for the avoidance of debt by the National Shareholder Energy Company Energoat, an Open Shareholder Company. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, for the provision of funds for the incineration of a military town in the city of Hmilniku Vinicka. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on urgent measures to ensure the functioning and development of education in Ukraine. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the re-profiling of premises in the city of Yagotin Kyiv district from the centre of temporary detention of refugees to the teaching corps of the Yagotin branch of the MAUP. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Prime Minister to renew the activities of the National Coordination Centre for the Adaptation of Military Personnel Released to Reserve or Retirement and Conversion of Former Military Objects as the National Coordination Centre for the Adaptation of Military Personnel Released to Reserve or Retirement and Conversion of Former Military Objects as the central executive body with special status. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister for directing taxes to the utility company to develop local budgets. [[ZUBANOV, COMAR and others]] Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister in connection with the change in the subpoenaing requirements of the appellant of the Mikolai District for the benefit of the State in the person of the Holding Foundation for the return to state ownership of 90.25% of the shares of the State Shareholder holding company “The Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant”. [[DENMARK, CULCHIN AND OTHERS]] Vladimir BOJK to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Minister of Transport and Liaison concerning the legality of the adoption by the Ministry of Transport and the linkage of Order No.540 “To amend certain legal acts of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine”. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for ignoring parliamentary requests from the Ministry of Emergency Situations, particularly the First Deputy Minister of Amos. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister for the release of officials from the Cabinet of Ministers who failed to comply with the Presidential Decree of 11 July 2005 on the creation of a Ukrainian Institute of National Memory in Kiev and the submission to the Supreme Council of a bill on the political and legal assessment of famines in the history of the Ukrainian people. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister for non-compliance with the Cabinet Regulation on the Approval of the National Programme for the Development and Functioning of Ukrainian for 2004-2010. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Coal Industry, for the reduction of jobs in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions in connection with the adoption of the Restructuring Programme and the further development of the State Warfare Mining Service in the coal industry in 2004 - 2007. Valery BORZOVA to the Prime Minister for compensation for the property of the Tolkac family in connection with the relocation of pollution from the Chernobyl disaster. To the Prime Minister, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for urgent engineering work to strengthen the island of Tuzla, which could soon disappear from the map of Ukraine. Vitalia HOMUTINIKA to the Prime Minister on the inappropriate state of preparation for the implementation of the Act on the provision of young people who have received higher or vocational or technical education, the first job with the employer’s grant. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister on the negative consequences caused by the operation of Invasport in Šostka. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister for the transfer of premises to the district administration of the environment of the Zacarpathian Youth Station. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the insufficient provision of computers for rural schools in the Malin district of Žitomir. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on the reinstatement of the State Committee for the Protection of Work in the Status of the Central Executive Authority. [[TURMAN, CORSAKOV, AND OTHER]] Vassil Hara to the Prime Minister for the submission to the Supreme Council of a draft law on a mechanism for the return of citizens' money savings, with additional resources to compensate them in the current year. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the allocation of a light car to the Teterian boarding house of the Zitomir district. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOV to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Defence, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the situation surrounding the Central Authority of Construction Industry and Material and Technical Security of the Ministry of Defence. Vladimir YAVORIYSKH to the Prime Minister regarding the review of the Interstate Agreement on the Status and Conditions of Circumstances of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation in Ukraine in connection with the repeated reluctance of the Russian side to allow Ukrainian verifiers to carry out verification of the presence of nuclear weapons in the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science on the solution of the urgent problems of education workers. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister for violation of article 10 of the Constitution and language legislation by railway transport workers and for irresponsible treatment of this Ministry of Transport and Communications. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Kiev City Head for additional funding from the State Road Budget and Bridge Construction in Kiev. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of irrigation of road construction and bridge construction in Kiev. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of irrigation of agricultural lands in southern Ukraine. MICHELLE NOCHENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the non-targetity of creation at the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, a subsidiary of “Gaz-warming”. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers on electrification of the new streets of rural settlements and the provision of budgetary resources for this purpose. Anatolysa Rachánské to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Head of the CRU, the Bureau of the Federation of Trades and Associations on the Inaction of the Management of the Social Insurance Fund for the Temporary Loss of Work and its Executive Directorate, which led to the destruction of daytime child health camps in 2005. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the purpose of dividing the single state forestry complex with the aim of privatizing production units by production and wood processing. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko for the transfer of the complex to the branch of the Scientific Research Institute of Labour and the Ministry's salary to the Donbas State Engineering Academy of the Ministry of Education and Science and for the creation of a special faculty for the promotion and retraining of personnel. Victor MIRONENCY to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka for the request of children of the war of Kerchi to contribute funds to the 2006 draft State Budget in accordance with the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Mr. Vladimir ĆENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Melnik for the violation of the rights of owners of the villages of Zavadovka and Luzanyuk of the Kamyan region of the Cherkas region by the heads of the farms. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the executive responsibility of Henprocuror for the criminal activity of members of the police in the Lipovodolin district of the Suma region against the head of the Lipovodlin Village Center of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander Goluba, acting as Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the abuse of office by officials of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region and for the improper consideration of citizens’ appeals in this regard by the Attorney General’s Office. Boris FALLEN to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the situation that has arisen around the stockholders' association “Scarlast”. Teams of deputies to the Attorney-General on the non-inclusion of interfaith conflicts in Ostrog, Plain region by Pavel Sulkovsky and other deputies from the faction of “Ukraine”. [[ASSURANCE, HULLINIAN, AND OTHERS]] Anatolia PISTARENKA to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of the property of the rations of the villages of Suštin and the rest of Terebovljan district of Ternopil. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, in connection with the situation around the newspaper “Serditaya newspaper” of Luhanskska, a baseless intervention in its activities by law enforcement agencies and efforts to close it. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the legality of being in the position of the Kozin village head of the District of Obukhiv, Kyiv region of Valentina, Sparrow removed from office in September 2004. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for the violation of the constitutional rights of the citizen Lucenka by members of the Security Service of the Winnick branch of the commercial bank Privatbank. Mikli Sokirka is acting as Attorney General for the promotion of the State Secret by Alexander Turkinov. Tamara Proscurated to the Attorney General on the course of the investigation of a criminal case, violated by signs of abuse of office by officials of the Open Shareholders Association Odes Ceramsite Plant. Viacheslav KOVALJA and Stepan DAVIMUKA to the first Deputy Attorney General regarding the pressure of a member of the Faction of the SDPU(o) Alexander Tzarenka on the collective of the Suma National Agrarian University. Anatolya PRITARENKA to the Attorney General for the elimination of violations of legislation in connection with the holding on February 28, 2005, of a local referendum on the early termination of the powers of deputies of the Kozin Village Council of the Obukhiv district of the Kyiv region. Teams of deputies to the Attorney-General on violations of legislation that threaten the preservation of the historical memory associated with the history of Ukrainian Cossacks, the National Reserve of Hortica. [[KOSIOV, ZULINSKI AND OTHERS]] MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General about the unlawful actions of officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Slovenian City Department of Justice in the Donetsk Region. Larissa UZACZENKO to the Attorney General for the prosecution of a criminal case involving a citizen named Saucuk. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on violations of legislation in part of the collection and payment of child care assistance to three-year-olds, other compensations and supplements, as well as the consideration of complaints and appeals by civil authorities in the Malin region of the Zitomir region. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General regarding the discovery of a criminal case to the investigators of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltav region against the citizen of Puglo and his wife. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the violation of the constitutional rights to pay for the work of internal physicians and the neglect of labour legislation regarding the employment of young professionals in the medical establishments of Lviv and Lviv region. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, the Head of the Kiev City Department, the Kiev City Head for the Prevention of Violations of the Constitutional Right of Peoples of the Holy Region of Kiev to Life and Health of the Environment, the discontinuation of the construction of the underground parking complex in view of the inadequacy of the basic requirements of the construction, planning, and construction of sanitation facilities. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Holy District of Kiev concerning the citizen of Sinelnikov. Valery CONONOVALJA to the Attorney General’s Office on the legality of the decision to close a criminal case involving a citizen named Alexander Polivka, who was investigated by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Herson region. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the decision taken by the City Council on the reorganization of the obstetric and gynecological services of the city of Raven, on the elimination of the maternity home in the city. Omelana PARUBKA and Volodymira ĆENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the constitutional rights of the head of the association of joint owners of property and land rations, a reorganized cooperative of the name of the Island Mankow Region of the Cherka region. Vadim MISURA to the Attorney-General on the inaction of officials of the Thessaloniki District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev in investigating the eviction of residents of the hostel under the rule of the Open Shareholders Association “The Lenin House Institute”. Michael MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, on the situation in the village of Trušovci in the Chigirin district of Cherkas region because of violations of the laws and rights of land and property owners. Mr. Tamara Proscurating to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the purpose of verifying the use of budgetary resources by the head of the Winnitsk Oblast, his deputy and the head of the Vinnitsk Oblast to finance their foreign missions along with his wife. Petra TLOČKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Culture and Tourism, the Kiev City Head, for the start of construction on the hillside of the high residential building, such as the Gruszewska Street 9a. Valeria CONOVALJUKA to the Attorney General's Office on the acquisition of property by the former head of the Mikolai district organization of the “Trudova Ukraine” political party, Viacheslav Rukomanov. Mikhail DOBKIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, on the criminalization of owners and managers of the private enterprise “Vladimir”, on the illegal import of cars into Ukraine and on the return of the added value tax on a particularly large scale. Jury KARMAZIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, acting as Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, on the verification of the involvement of the head of the Kirovograd District Administration and his close relatives in the dissolution of credit funds through controlled commercial enterprises on a particularly large scale, contributing to the growth of business and politics. Mr. Oleg PETROVA to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine on the reasons for the delay in the preparation of the Ukrainian President's order to appoint Lipkovsky Head of State in the city of Kiev. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Head of Public Administration of the Ukrainian President's affairs regarding the conditions of renting “Scarmer” in the territory of the Ukrainian President's secretariat of the premises under the bookstore and filling it with book products exclusively in Russian. Alexia Remenjuka to the Human Rights Council-designate on unlawful actions by citizens of the Putin political party. Kirila POLIČUKA to the minister in matters of family, youth, and sports because of the incomprehensibility of uniting youth and sports departments at Ukraine’s district government. LUKYANENKA’S left to the minister of internal affairs regarding the delay of the Ministry’s personnel authorities in rebuilding Alexander Tereshchenka’s internal affairs. Valerija Suščević to the Minister of Justice on the grounds of non-supply by the State Executive Service of the Lviv City Department of Justice, the execution of the Supreme Court’s ruling on compensation for the damage suffered by the disabled group I. MIKOLI MELNIKA to Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Defense for Rights Violations in Retirement of a citizen named Plush. JOURIA DYDENKA to the minister in the field of family, youth and sports for the implementation of the Ukrainian National Health Program for Modern Technology. Vitaly KORJA to Minister of Industrial Policy, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Legislative Violations at Zaporozhye State Enterprise “Cremnipolymer”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Justice on the violation of article 17 of the Act on the National Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Enterprises, Head of Statistics in the Kirovograd Region. Mr. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Minister of Justice regarding the position of the Ministry regarding the legal status of property transferred to the Council of the Federation of Independent Professional Associations. Ally ALEKSANDROWSKI and Vladimir LECHENKA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the State Committee of Statistics on the Summary of Work on the Creation of New Jobs for 10 Months 2005. GEORGIA KRUCHKOVA to the Minister of Defence regarding the use of air space in Ukraine by US and other states, members and partners of NATO. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Justice on the procedure for the execution of court decisions in part of the payment of debts to teachers. Peter SABASUKA to the Minister of Justice for the incompetence of explaining legislation on the scope of the scientific and technical activities of the organization and for misinterpreting the status of the design office. Victor SHUFRIC, Nestor Sufrich, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding an unwarranted response to a citizen’s status as a war invalid. GREGORY CALETICA to the Ministry of Health on the provision of information on the provision of assistance to low-income groups for the provision of paid operational treatment abroad and in Ukraine and the volume of budgetary funding for these measures in 2005. Stepan HMARI to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the violation of the terms of the privatisation of the open stock package of the “Libya Hotel complex”. FIXA to the Minister of Education and Science on how to set up pay for living in student dormitories. Larissa VACHENKO to the Ministry of Health for the provision of accessible and adequate treatment for children with disabilities from childhood. Mr. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the purpose of addressing the head of the Tomaszgrad Village Council of the Rokitni district of Rivna district with regard to the delay in the reconstruction of the railway platform “Conspiracy” and ignoring the demands of the village council’s deputies by Lviv Railway. Anatolya CLIMINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal alienation and sale of property of the collective enterprise “U h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h [[cities of Kharkiv]] Teams of deputies to the Ministry of Defence on the violation of labour rights of workers in the liquidation of the apartment and maintenance part of the Donetsk-Lugansk garrison. [[WORTH, COMA, AND OTHERS]] Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding the examination of violations of legislation relating to the conduct of severe cuts in the forests of the Carpathian region. Ms. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Justice for Alimony Debt. Victor Tarana to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the systematic flooding of the Dniprovsky District Department of Passports and the threat of damage to passport documents. [[TERRITO]] David's people went to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the facts of the violation of the Anti-Corruption Act in the actions of the Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Health regarding the failure of the Tubdispanser of the train hospital in the city of Konotap Sumska district. VYACHESLAVA DOUBIC TO THE Minister of Finance for compensation for the loss of citizens’ monetary savings. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Ministry of Defence concerning the recalculation and retirement of a retired military pensioner living in the city of Eupatoria. VADIM MISSURE to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the provision of unreliable information by the head of the Pension Fund in the Dniprov region. Vladimir Paka to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy on the basis of the findings of the Kyiv District Medical and Social Expert Commission on the right of a veteran of the Great Homeland War, resident of Yagotin Kyiv region to a car with manual control. Ms. Vladimir CHAPPETIN to the Minister of Justice regarding the inaction of state executives of the State Executive Service of the Blissnikow District Department of Justice of the Kharkiv Region. Jaroslav KENDZYORA and Bogdan KostinjuKa to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the assignment of State social assistance to the village of Belashovka in the province of Rivezni. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Ministry of Finance regarding the exemption from the tax on the added cost of non-produced medical supplies in Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on the Budget for the Repayment of Debt by Reimbursement of Expenses From Seeding in 2004. MICHELLA’S Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the Protection of the Population from Harmful Biotechnology and the introduction of mandatory labelling of food containing genetically devalued components. Boris BESPALO to the Kiev City Head for not allowing the transfer of land to the Kyivvistobud Society in the Obolonian district of Kiev. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of Odessa District Administration for granting permission to use Satan’s citizen’s own savings in savings on debt and treatment. Jury DIDENKA to the Head of the Holding Fund for the position of head of the Regional Office of the Holding Fund in the Mikolaiiv region on the termination of the contract for the sale of the state stock package of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Alexia BABURIN to the Head of the Kiev City Administration, Head of the Pecher District State Administration, for delaying the signing of the agreement on cooperation in the area of forgetfulness on the street of Red Army No.33 Gennady RUDENKA to the Head of the DPA regarding the violation of the rights of a citizen named Sharon, an aboriginal of the National Academy of Taxation. Anatoly of the Korczynski Foundation to the Head of the holdingmeine Foundation for the expenses incurred by the Chernobyl ATP-17755 for the storage of property belonging to the Regional Department of the Holding Fund. Mr. Nestor SHUFRICH to the Head of the Pension Fund on the appropriate application of legislation when calculating the pension of citizen Usoltsev. Michael KOSIVA to the Head of the Regional District Administration on the situation surrounding the premises for Kuria of the Kyiv-Jetomiresiecy of the Roman Catholic Church. Efima FIXA to the Head of Government of the Open Shareholders Association “Kretelekom” for financing the reconstruction of the telephone networks in the Red Crosscopy region. Peter SABASUKA to the Head of the Pension Fund for Bureaucratism at the Pension Fund Branch of Zaporozhye and for violation of the constitutional rights to receive a pension. The MSHURA Valery to the Head of the Central Election Commission on Western adjectives during the 2004 presidential election of nearly 3 million nonexistent citizens. Anatholic to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for dissatisfaction with the answer to the request for clarification of article 144 of the Code of Land. TO THE head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for violations of language law. Andrea POLITA to Kiev City Head, Attorney General, on the situation surrounding the property on the street of Honchar. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Head of the State Road Service for the repair of the Lug-Kosovo Polya Rakhov district of Zakarpatsk. Dmitry HOLIDAY to the Head of the State Customs Office for the smuggling into the customs territory of buses and trucks that were manufactured or used for more than 8 years at the time of import. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the appropriateness of being a judge of the Breesan local court of the Mikolai district in connection with the gross violation expressed in the refusal to comply with the Supreme Court’s Order of 29 March 2000. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the city’s city head, the prosecutor of Kiev, for the violation of the housing rights of residents on Borsztagi Street in connection with the eviction. Alexander TKALENKA to the Director-General of the State Post Office for Renting in the Office of the President of Ukraine, an office for bookshops and book products exclusively in Russian. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Sumsky District Attorney's Office for ignoring the Crolevetsky City Council's prescriptions for bringing its decisions on housing and utility tariffs into line with legislation. Oleg PETROVA to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the violation by the Kiev City Political Party “National Union of “Our Ukraine” of the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine”. Vassila NARAGI to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the deepening of relations between the Holy Kiril parish and the National Reserve of “Sofia Kyivska”. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the restoration of the constitutional rights of citizens who have been violated as a result of their failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the application of legal and regulatory provisions on the financial security of the members of the internal affairs bodies. Thus, 157 requests were received from the national deputies. The factions. The Communists of Ukraine - 26, the "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, the People's Party - 8, "Our Ukraine" - 14, the Block of Timoshenko - 12, the Socialist Party - 8, the Ukrainian People's Party - 6, the Social Democratic Party -23, the political party "Forward, Ukraine!" and now the People's Block - 6, "One Ukraine" - 3, the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 1, the People's Movement - 15, "Reforms and Orders" - 7, "Trust of the People" - 5, non-fractional - 9. [[united]] Entrepreneurs - 1, People's Movement - 15, Reforms and Orders - 7, People's Trust - 5, Postfraction - 9. Please, 30 minutes for the show. Light up, please. The executioner passes the word Posquito, please. She'll be followed by Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u2	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Social Democrats are passionately forced to say that the power of the Vinnitsk region, namely, the head of Alexander Dombroski's government and the head of the Jury Johnov district council, has been harassed and harassed. TRK “Vinnicina” is simply because the television company communicates to the viewers what it is, not what it is thought to be seen and heard by the district’s leaders. The Winnitzina TRC produces 80 per cent of the product directly on the air, where they have the freedom to participate in various political forces, public authorities and authorities. The correctness of the selected path is confirmed by numerous calls and viewer letters coming from all over the area to the TRC. Yet, the actions of the authorities give us every reason to say that the district’s leadership is not interested in hearing the voice of the truth. Social Democrats are outraged by the humiliating and illegal statements made to the TRC by the head of the government, Alexander Dombrovski, during the district council session. We don't think it's worthy of the first person in the area. The statement that he has insulted not only the TRK but also the millions of viewers, solely because the Winnitzina TRC does not close its eyes to lowering the standard of living, the debt of wages, the crisis in the APC and the economy in general, reflecting the opinions of different sides of social and political life. There's pressure on the Winnitzina TRC, there's room rent problems, there's lawsuits. The only reason the TV channel is being persecuted is because the authorities have failed to control it. The reasons for such allegations are the relevant documents that testify to attempts by the head of the district council to change the composition of the founders illegally on 26 July 2002, as well as a letter signed by the same head of the archduke Yuri Ivanov and the exposé of the ODA Victor Katsamira was sent to the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, requesting that the issue of issuing a language license not be considered. All the latest events around the TRC have confirmed once again that the local authorities are boldly demonstrating double standards and aim to do everything possible to stop the independence, the activity of independent media. Just before the elections, the same authorities who ruled the area over the past years had not changed. Only the color of their political flags has changed. If they pushed the TRK another year ago, as members of, for example, the NDP, they are now attacking freedom of speech under the brand “Our Ukraine”. Social Democrats call for the protection of freedom of speech. [[United]] Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister and the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u3	Ivan Mihovich conveys the word of Vladimir Leshchenk, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u4	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On November 7th, the workers of Ukraine and the former Allied Republics of the Soviet Union, all progressive humanity will mark the 88th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. This world - wide event has been a turning point in the development of modern civilization. For the first time in history, workers and peasants, soldiers and sailors -- all enslaved by the royal regime, by the furnishings and the newly born swallows from the bourgeoisie of the population, organized by Lenin's party -- have served as a wall to defend their interests. For the first time in the world, a nation of workers appeared. Civil war and the intervention of capitalist countries around the world to suppress the insurgent people were lost. In a short period of history, a powerful world-level power — the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics — was built on the site of a distant Russian empire. Even among the equal-sister republics flourished Soviet Ukraine. Only through the fraternal friendship of the Soviet peoples do we have the courage of our citizens, who under the direction of the Communist Party have protected their own nation, their relatives, and their loved ones, rather than their own wealth. A great victory over Hitler’s Fascism was won by the incredible efforts. Ukraine became a member of the United Nations, and our parents quickly rebuilt war - torn conditions for the growing generation. Thank them so much for this. Unfortunately, in the early 1990s in Ukraine, the newly discovered capitalists again took over temporarily. They have stolen the national good, abused the labor nation, traded Ukraine in front of the world’s capital. The CK Presidency, the first secretary of the CK of the Ukrainian Company Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, warmly congratulated the workers of Ukraine on this festival through the newspaper Communist, published in today's issue. Welcoming the faction of the Ukrainian Company in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of all honest citizens of Ukraine with the 88th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. We want strong health, confidence, and endurance in the fight against the antinational regime of Kravczuk, Kuchma, Yushchenka. Victory will still be for the working people. We urge everyone who cares about his own destiny, the fate of children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren to go out on the 7th of November on the street and the square of Kiev, the district centers, the populace of Ukraine to tell his formidable “No!” orange bourgeois clans in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u5	Mikhailo Kosov. Get ready for Sharov. It's Bondarenko Grigory.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u6	Mikhailo Kosov, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I want to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday we did not support the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Legal Settlement of the Problems of Ukrainians Forced from Poland to Ukraine in 1944-46 and 51 years. Document No. 8233. I want to say that to my deep conviction, it's just a misunderstanding. Well, first of all, it's said that this action was legally based on a deal that existed between the temporary, temporary rescue committee of Poland and the government of the Soviet Union. But, colleagues, I suggest you read this agreement, the term "evacuation" used there, and the term "evacuation" was quite appropriate, because it was September 9, 1944, when the war was still going on. And Poland has just been liberated from Hitler's armies. But because the evacuation ended in 44th, and the relocation, i.e. the deportation, took place in the 45th, 46th years. In the 47th year, there was this notorious operation called Operation Vistula and in the 51st year. I want to speak to a colleague from the Communist Party faction: Well, for God's sake, there's no reason for you not to vote for these hearings. On the other hand, you repeatedly claim that you condemn the mistakes and even the crimes of your predecessors, even though you consider them to be their successors. But I don't understand at all, well, why don't representatives, like the People's Party, vote? Catherine Timofievno, you have thousands of these people who have been resettled, they're in the Hersonian, the Mikolai region, the Odessa region. Well, why are we closing our eyes on this page of our history? It's a sad page, tragic, but let's put an end to it, let's roll, because it's our story, tragic, but our story. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you very much: let us go back to looking at this question again. It deserves a proper assessment. And another thing: Poland has long recognized its fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u7	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. But perhaps you, as an experienced parliamentarian, realize that such problems will not be solved by parliamentary hearings. Let's talk, well, what's next? Yes, instead of Sharov Gregory Bondarenko, after him Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u8	Gregory Bondarenko, MP Vladimir Litvina Dear colleagues! Today, all politicians are unwary of the domestic manufacturer. The most notable companion in this matter is Baraniwski, the honourable Minister of the APC. The minister almost sheds bitter tears on the television every day, worrying about the next state support of the APC. That funding needs to be increased is an undeniable fact. And there is not one Baranian who insists on this. But it is equally important that we do what is done today, as the funds already allocated are used. The situation is this: A few days ago, while in the constituency, I met an important man, doctor of science, Alexander Vasilovich Garkusenk. Among the problems he called grain shopping. Its solution was known to involve the State. But how? In August, a special government agency, the Agrarian Foundation, reported that it was opening up the purchase of food grain, but the partner could only be one who did not have debts before the government. The situation is quite substantial. There was only one such farm in the Fastev region of Kyiv, a research station. He asked how to deal with a good crop for everyone else, virtually the whole area? And that's not all. In a deal with the above - mentioned farms, the Agrarian Foundation indicated that the cost of a tonne of “A” grain was 440 dollars. However, when the grain was taken to the Borodian loaves and was given an appropriate witness, it had 420 bracelets already in it. And the final actual price turned out to be horrifying — only 289 dollars per tonne. More than 150 bracelets, like a cow's tongue. And that's the loss of every tone. The left - hand portion of the farm money was eaten by a parlour for taking the grain, drying, and storing. The rest were turned over for quality insurance, for credit payments, and only one thing remained out of consideration — transportation costs from the farm. After losing 26,000 lives, the villagers refused to carry the wheat. Although the contract was not foreseen, the price was 650 per tonne. That's how we support the manufacturer, create the state reserve of grain. By the way, peasant money was absorbed mainly by state structures in the Baranovsky sphere. We, nationals and others, are working to raise some 14 billion dollars from the State Budget next year to support the villagers and villages. But what happens to those billions if the ministers are ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u9	We have ministers, not ladies, but politicians. Andrey the police, the Communist faction. To prepare, Malinowski passes the word to Sergienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u10	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the media. Today in Odessa, I emphasize that in the occupied Odessa, Edward Gurwitz is trying to replace his real job as mayor, to whom no one has elected him, a mythical struggle to rename the city hero's memorial sites. The battalions who were on fire for the vicious attempts to rename a number of Odessa streets and the demolition of Lenin's monument, who stood by the Odessa and once again showed their wisdom and honour, as the epoch that Gurvits had begun trying to conceal its illegal activities in the post of city head, the epic of the name of the Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine and the park of Ilic, had not yet been silenced. These places are not set up by Gurvits. This is a tribute and a tribute to the millions of Somalis and Soviets, their labour and fighting exploits. The Lenin Komsomol Park of Ukraine was erected by the hands of the Komsomolians for their own resources and only by them, all generations of Ukrainian Communists whose history is dear to them, to decide the fate of their child. Not Gurvitsu, who has long passed on all the ideals that our people have lived and were proud of for decades. Even the two decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to celebrate the 85th anniversary of the VLXM and the State Support for the Youth Movement and the 85th anniversary of the LXM and to strengthen the role of youth social organizations in the educational work with young people, which we have adopted with you, distinguished people's deputies, in 2002 and 2003 do not provide for a self-appointed measure. His decree is not that of thousands and thousands of Odessa. He probably doesn't have the honor and the conscience. It is a clear attempt by Gurvica and his clan to privatize not only greedy pieces owned by a million-dollar city, but also to reach into its history, on the streets and squares, which constitute the pride of a world-renowned and beloved city. You won't get yours, Mr. Gurwitz. We will not allow the current anti-U.S. pro-American authorities to wipe their feet about our legendary history. It is doubly gruesome that attempts to rename have intensified on the eve of the 87-year anniversary of the Lenin Komsomol, which we celebrated on 29 October and the next anniversary of the October socialist revolution, which we will celebrate on 7 November. We, the representatives of the Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine, declare that we will not allow the name of the Lenin Komsomol Park in Odessa to be changed and that we will strongly resist all the proceeds of the criminal anti-national authority. Well, that's a nice ending. I would like, on behalf of the Communist faction and in particular, to congratulate my colleague, Nikolai Nosenko, all railways on their professional holiday – Railway Day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u11	Leonid Sergienko. Get ready. Pellcake gives the word to Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I regret that there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich today. I am approached by the voters of the city of Dnipropetrovska with a collective appeal, more loyally addressing Lithuania with a collective appeal, which I would like to convey and deliver: “Dear Volodymira Mikhajlovich, we request you to stop human rights violations by the leaders of the People’s Party, who in Dnipropetrovsk are of a mass nature. An example of this is the pressure on school leaders, PTUs, hospitals, technicians, enterprises of various forms of property for the purpose of mass adoption before. The party you're leading. The Agrarian Party has, in our view, changed the name, the Agrarian sector has collapsed, it's hardly going to help, and we have enough people. Moreover, the administrative resources are all said to be in the city of Dnipropetrovsk under Lithuania. Most people went out to Midan. Not against Yanukovic or in support of Yushchenk, they were opposed to deception, the exercise of power, and the administration. What did we get today? The same deception on the part of the authorities but more sophisticated and covered with the name of the people. People in fear of being fired from work are photographed directly in the workplace and forced to join the National Party, while others are given 20 to 50 bracelets for taking photos for the application to join the party of your name. There are even companies, for example, Pik and Tech Supply, when they're admitted to work, they give priority to those who will write a statement to your party. We demand an end to the saviour. Moreover, we will not remain silent or allow ourselves, as before, to be pursued by a party supported by leadership. We will no longer allow administrative resources to be included -- this is already a stage in our country. We demand democratic conditions for all Ukrainians, although with regard to choice of party or religion. In your speeches, you're focusing on the balance of reconciliation in society, and in this case, our right to freedom of choice is being violated, and there is bullying. And here are dozens of signatures and a few statements from people who really suffer from it. For example, Tech Supply: “They were forced to sign up for the above-mentioned party due to fear of dismissal. Please take a look at this matter.” And many other statements that I'm passing on to Vladimir Mikhailovich. And in some areas, peasants only serve milk with portraits today! Because people here are calling for an end to this mass violence. We forgot when the people stormed the Wall of the Supreme Council, and these lessons were only recently. Today we are engaged in the same forgery. I therefore convey to Vladimir Mikhailovich people's statements, and let him deal specifically with each and every one of them, and deal with this issue. Adam Ivanovich, please hand over Lithuania to Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u13	I'll give it to you. But I have a question. What, the People's Party in Dniproperty in Power? Please, Mikola Komar instead of Paklusenko. Herasimov will be next. He's handing Boyka over.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u14	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! The faction of the Ukraine Party has always consistently advocated the restoration of justice and the return to citizens of lost savings. Today, however, we are in opposition and are unable to guarantee the return of their money. At the moment, logically, the return of the citizens of their stolen deposits would be a matter of concern to the active authorities. But those brought to power betrayed the common people and did not even try to pretend what they thought of the people. A convincing proof of this is the President's veto to amend the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. In fact, the Head of State turned on red light on the way to the return of savings depositors. The faction of the region reminds Viktor Andriyovich of the events of the year when, as a candidate for the Presidents, he issued decrees in Maidan, so-called, without any legal basis. Among these, in December 2004, Yushchenko signed a decree on urgent measures and ensuring that the lost savings of citizens were recovered, which he recognized as a loss of public debt. Remember, then, Yushchenko promised to use pre-planned budget revenues in 2005 and 50 percent of privatisation funds. This was, in particular, “Criminal”. From Maidan, he saw the opportunity to return what was stolen from them, and when he became president, what did he no longer consider possible? The faction of the Party of the Regions refers to fellow countrymen who voted in favour of today’s power. It is worth considering whether an active head of state is able to deliver on your savings return pledges. The answer is no. What is more, as has become clear since the introduction of the relevant law, the President has no intention of taking steps in this direction. The faction “Ukraine” states that the President does not oblige the government to return their savings to the citizens. In the same way, he ignores his own election promises. All of his proposals for the Deposit Restoration Act are mirage and ordinary osmosis. [[in quotes]] The faction of the Party of the Regions requires the President to express his position on the matter, and we ask our colleagues to support the faction's initiative to return savings on the basis of part of the funds from the privatisation of the “Civoristals”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u15	George Buiko instead of Gerasimov. Get ready for Dmitri Pavlitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u16	George Buiko, All-Ukrainian Union "Intelligence for Socialism", Communist faction. Lately, after the initiative of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. Not only witnesses, but also forced participants in attempts to rehabilitate UN-OPA. All these actions are, unfortunately, based on the conclusions of the working group of historians at the Cabinet of Ministers in the study of UN UPA activities led by Professor Stanislaw Kulczycki, and who also have moral responsibility for the tension in society on this issue that exists today and in the future can only increase. These recommendations made by the government commission, I stress, are entirely wrong and unfounded, which are determined by independent scientists not only by Ukraine but also by Canada, France, Czech Republic, Israel, Poland, Slovakia, Serbia, Russia, Belarus. These conclusions are based not only on the fact that the decisions of the working group were made by only two, I emphasize, only two out of sixteen men, but distributed as finals, on television, radio, and other media. And in that way, there are no legal, historical, scientific, political grounds on the basis of the so-called, professional conclusions of a group of historians who are gleaning the main facts of UN UPA's activities, but who were also forced to admit that the eunuchs, and then the scribes, quoted in the original language, “worked with German intelligence and counter-intelligence, created, according to Hitler's task, a diversive unit in the form of an abversion, that the UPA troops wiped out the entire Polish population, almost 200 Polish settlements with arms, hair, axes.” Next. These conclusions point to the fight against the UPA against Soviet guerrillas, Soviet authorities, the Red Army, and in the postwar period since 44,53 UPA troops not only destroyed these categories, but also 17 thousand, 326 colporteurs, workers, intelligence, children, the elderly, women. All of this is far from complete. We must be guided by the decision of the Nuremberg Tribunal and by all the applicable international law, under which crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes against humanity are not long overdue. Second, to remember Ukraine, and not to bring discord into society. In this regard, I turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u17	Dmitri Pavlitzko, please. Kenzier? Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Today the Communists have welcomed the anniversary of the Yellow Revolution. I want to look at this event together, the National Movement of Ukraine and the Ukrainian People's Party, from a different perspective. Sixty-eight years ago, on October 27, 1937, in the execution of Order Politburo VKP(b) “On anti-Radians elements” in the Sandarmog ceremony in southern Carelia, the shooting of 1,111 prisoners of the Solovetsk prison began. The shootings also lasted from first to fourth of November. Among the fallen 209 Ukrainians is the flower of the Ukrainian nation. The head of Solovetsk Prison has taken the prisoner's intelligence to gun down virtually all the peoples of the Soviet Union, perhaps before the 20th anniversary of the Great Yellow Revolution to strengthen the friendship of the peoples with blood. They were people who could create priceless spiritual treasures, with which we Ukrainians would have a level, would have become equal to other civilized peoples. The very presence of such people in society makes it better, but the shootings of the illiterate cat, the Communist captain Michael Matthew, the performer of Moscow's will, deeply hostile to us, changed the course of history. The operation began on August 5, 1937, at the order of the NCCD and lasted until November 15, 1938. It was the most massive in Soviet history to clean up society from population categories that, according to the Communist leadership, were not suitable for the construction of communism. During the 15 months of this campaign, special threes without investigation, courts, prosecutors, defenders, and, in most cases, without the accused themselves, passed sentences of almost 700,000. Ukrainian Patriots. The sentences were executed immediately, entirely in the spirit of instructions from the creator of the Soviet state of Lenin, who taught: “Be exemplaryly unfortunate, shoot no one without asking or allowing an idiotic burden. ” For each republic, the area was reduced to an appropriate limit. The Moscow Holois redesigned their plans and turned to the CPBU’s CP to increase their plans. Sambarmog in southern Carelia was the usual shooting site for 20-30 years. Some 9,000 people will die there, and the names of 677 Ukrainians have already been established. I call upon all the conscious Ukrainians and deputies of the Supreme Council here to make a prayer in remembrance of those whom the Communist regime has shot down by the Yellow Revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u19	Dissatisfaction with the answers. Documents are drawn up accordingly. Please, Mikola Nightshenko. Prepare Igor Shurmi. Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, please. Nightmare. Shurma, please. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u20	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The problem of the state-of-the-art state-of-the-art housing programme for young people 2002-2012 and the extent to which young families are being credited for construction or housing from the State Budget in 2005, in principle, is well-known to every deputy, because we all receive citizens and a large part of the complaints, just as it applies to the refusal of authorized authorities to grant citizens extended long-term loans. I think that each of us can immediately say the reason for these refusals, and this is the lack of funds because of the independent funding of this program. In fact, proper funding of the program is a duty of authority. Thus, people’s indignation with the answers of officials is completely reasoned and understandable. Now, about an answer that's not only surprising, it's probably shocking. The government, which daily insists on its exceptional social life, with the mouth of Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, has decided to inform me upon request. And it says that a large number of young people are not yet provided with housing that is linked to the low payability of most young people, the lack of cheap housing, and so forth. Perhaps Mr. Kirilenko has forgotten, so I would like to remind him today that the solution to the problems he listed lies in the scope of his duties. That's what you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, are paid every month for 20,000 dollars, and I would like to emphasize: 20,000 dollars in salary for Kirilenko. If all young families had wages like yours, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, they could buy a place like this, not turn to you, and we wouldn't bother you with questions. It is particularly impressive to see the vice-premier's vision when he writes that the solution to the issue of youth housing lending in full is possible with a substantial increase in the funding of the state programme. Undoubtedly, it is convincing, especially if you consider the level of funding in response. This year, 130 million are earmarked, and in fact, 60% are funded. You say there's no money. Maybe I'll tell you where I can take it. Of the 30 million that you are planning to provide to the President's Secretariat, 10 million that are planned to provide for activity, service for the activities of the President of Ukraine, 10 million that are increasing to visit the President of Ukraine abroad. There is a way out of this situation with the rest. You have a "Cruvoristal" and you can allocate at least 2 billion extra to finance youth lending. This direction of the funds must be used. I would also like to point out that on the stage, the orangeists were talking about grand plans to pay attention to young people, and their wages were silent. So decide with loans for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u21	Yes, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, for the third time I invite you to the rostrum, I will no longer be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u22	Nightshenko Mikola, 160th constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! For two years, I have repeatedly requested my electorate to address the Cabinet of Ministers and the management of the individual central executive authorities to eliminate nearly a thousand tons of unfit and banned pesticides, which in 1975 are in unapproached warehouses in the territory of the Suma region. During this time, I received an answer from former Deputy Prime Minister Kinach, Minister of Industrial Policy Shandra, Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection of Grizzenka, with numerous promises of action. However, the work on the disposal of pesticides that are not suitable for further use in the Mid - Beech and Yampli district of Sumi district has not been started. The sources of funding for these works are not defined. There is no funding available in the State and Local Budgets in 2005 or in the 2006 plan. This gives me reason to say that the solution to this question is prolonged, and the answers are blank, blank promises. The position of a foreign observer was taken by the Suma District Council, the Suma District State Administration. It was their decision 30 years ago that 937 tons of banned, unsavory poisons were removed and disposed of. The bottom line is that the government of Yanukovich has not taken care of my constituents, and the government of Tymoshenko has not done anything except counsel and empty promises to eliminate this threat. Now the hope is for today's functioning government. If that doesn't help, we'll be waiting for the next election, the victory of the People's Block of Lithuania, which is convinced, to solve the problems of the destruction of harmless jachemics, both in district 160 and in Ukraine as a whole. And finally, I sincerely welcome all the social workers today with their professional celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u23	The statement has been completed. Two factions, the Ukrainian People's Party and the People's Movement, are asking for breaks. The hare wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u24	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to welcome the social workers and their professional festival. And now I want to put together a joint position of the Ukrainian People's Party on yesterday's pension vote. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party wants to attract. The Ukrainian People’s Party and the People’s Movement, yes. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party wants to draw your attention and attention to a very dangerous trend that is gaining momentum every day towards the elections. It's an increase in social differentiation between citizens. Despite the recent rise in pensions and salaries for all, the spread of citizens at income levels has increased rapidly. If an unfair comparison has been overtaken before, when the amount of pensions and salaries is virtually independent of the contribution and conditions of work, people are now even more outraged by the unfair differentiation in pensions and salaries, which also does not take into account the contribution and quality of work. Literally a year later, two authorities threw society into another extreme, unfair extreme. For two, three percent of the citizens, usually in power, have wages and pensions that are 20, 30 times higher than the average and the country’s averages. If the average monthly pension now amounts to 384 bracelets, the salary and pension of many high - income workers is 15 - 20 thousand dollars and more. The Ukrainian People’s Party views the state of affairs as extremely unfair for most citizens. If political leadership cannot ensure a substantial increase in pensions and salaries for most citizens, restrictions should be placed on the maximum amount of pensions and wages for the people themselves. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party voted yesterday precisely for limiting the maximum amount of pensions for ministers, national deputies, high-ranking militias, prosecutors, courts, and so on, whose pension now exceeds their average state level several dozen times. Unfortunately, most factions voted against the maximum pension limit yesterday. Even those who speak so much each day for the social protection of their citizens voted for it. This applies primarily to the left. The Ukrainian People's Party wants to remind the Communists that in communist times there was a so-called party maximum, by which party Communist leaders had higher incomes, but still limited. So why are the Communists now so quickly forgetting this practice? Is your shirt even closer to the body than the people's? Why, gentlemen of the Communists, did you forget the slogan “Work pay”? Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party calls on Parliament, the government to enact laws that eliminate the problem of the separation of people, caused by unfair wage differentiation and pensions as soon as possible. And what I'm trying to say is that there's an oligarch and a left. One of the deputies here was talking about the pay of ministers, but we have the same salary, so let's level the playing field, let's respect people who worked hard, not cut them off at income levels, and pretend we're not here for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u25	Very wise, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, but it would be wiser if you completed your application by stating that you were giving up such a pension in the future. That would be nice. That would be very nice. You mentioned the first one. Yes, two more factions -- the People's Movement and our alliance, our Ukraine. Who will act? Tealenco. You were the first to call the Communists. Don't touch, don't fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u26	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine Honourable MPs, statement of the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine and the faction of our Ukraine. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the new edition of the law on the City of Sevastopol. Without excluding the relevance of considering this law, in order to resolve the exercise of executive power and local self-government in Sevastopol, we state that the provisions of article 1 of the law violate the requirements of the Constitution on the possibility of temporary stay in Ukraine of foreign military formations on lease terms and in accordance with the international treaties that have been ratified only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not by Ukraine's laws. Furthermore, article 9 of the Act provides for a subsidy to compensate for the city budget of Sevastopol from the deployment of the Black Sea fleet, which is contrary to article 95 of the Constitution, which establishes the principles of the budgetary arrangement exclusively by the State Budget Act, which defines any expenditure incurred by the State in general, its size and purpose. Thus, the assignment of Sevastopol’s local self - government authorities should be carried out only with the obligation to maintain effective administrative and legal control on the part of the central authorities. This law must be of a transitional nature, and the principles of local self-government in full scope can only be implemented after the withdrawal of the Russian military contingent, i.e. after 2017. We think it's necessary to start an immediate development of the Sevastopol City Integrated Development Programme with a fixation of its provisions, its funding in the 2006 State Budget Project. Such an approach could be acceptable to most Sebastopols and an effective counterbalance measure to neutralize Sevastopol's existing significant political and psychological and economic influence of the Russian Federation, the possible provocations of secession, the creation of preconditions for the possible continuation of the Russian Federation's Black Sea fleet in Ukraine after 2017. Thus, in view of the current situation of Ukrainian-Russian relations and the political situation on the peninsula, the law should be directed primarily towards ensuring Ukraine's national interests and security. In view of what has been said, the factions “Our Ukraine” and “The People’s Movement” urge the President of Ukraine to veto the above-mentioned law. The factions also request the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately submit to Parliament a draft decree under number 7696 establishing a Temporary Investigation Commission to examine the status of implementation of the basic status and conditions of residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u27	Yes, two more, more faithfully, factions and groups. The People's Party faction, the group of the People's Block of Lithuania also requests breaks. Who, Nadya? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u28	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! We have now witnessed with you two speakers before, about how the Socialist Party representative, well, I beg your pardon, began to engage in politics. A party with its governors. Participant of the Government. The party that claims and confirms by its actions and statements that it is the winner, the winner of the Orange Revolution, tells us that the People's Party of Lithuania has administrative resources! People, be shy! Well, how many scarecrows can you think of? You're telling me there's an administrative resource. But I beg your pardon, and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is headed by your minister? And the Ministry of Education, is there a respected minister here? What about the Ministry of the Interior? What about the State Property Fund? Aren't those the people with your sidekicks? And does this People's Party of Lithuania have its governors, I repeat, have its ministers? Well, how long can we talk about this? The answer is itself asked to what extent. Until the election. Because after the election, you won't have to explain what you did and where you came from. Today, there are many stories about what is bad or what is good. But you better tell me, my dears, what is wrong with you? From this rostrum, I want to ask you a question and warn you and the whole of Ukraine: when by the new year the prices of meat will rise and you will not be able to buy a normal piece of hall on the new table, I would like the Minister of the APC, who is a socialist, together with the whole party to explain why, in the event of a potential shortage and a ban on importing imported meat, we are not doing anything today, and we are walking, talking about all kinds of scares. Why is it that today the administration, which is in your hands and you're not ashamed to say that the major directors have gone to us, is there tens and hundreds of thousands of statements of income to the Soccer, is that not an administrative resource? Because our leader said absolutely right in his own time, "on a thief and a hat burns." You charge the admin resource, it works for you, and now you're running, pointing your finger at others. How long do we have to do this? Therefore, the well-respected power party, which bears the loud name “Socialist”, please, while in power, learn to answer for what you are doing or what you are not doing and why the problems that exist in this State, both in this room and in the Cabinet of Ministers, are not the subjects you are taking responsibility for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, as you wish, I will now give those factions who want to announce the break, but from the first hour we will not have the “Variance” with you. Because you're converting meetings, I'm sorry, just to express your views. Are we going to consider the issue of the day’s order today or not? Then yes, I'll give the factions, but from 13 o'clock we'll be discussing the issue. Reforms and Orders do not have the right to write applications, because Reforms and Orders have already announced, have already been requested. There's socialists. Well, let them be socialists. Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u30	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Proudness for our nation will move me to address you today with that word but also pain for the state. We may have a change in premieres too often, and they may not be able to prepare for high public functions, and they may disgrace the state abroad. We have all read in the media what “breeds” that the cartoons on the country of Ukraine have been written by Prime Minister Yehanurov to the world. I don't know if he loves Ukraine, but I know he's gonna embarrass her today. He stated that President Lukashenko's neighbour, associate President, is Hitler, that Ukraine should go to the Soviet Union earlier, because otherwise -- never, he said that Ukraine today is ruled by an oligarchs club that operates under the authority of Ukraine's highest official. It's a disgrace. And we can't get past. We express our mistrust to such a vice-premier and demand his resignation. He stated that he would order research centres in the United States, consulting firms and groups to develop a national economic development strategy. This humiliation of Ukraine and nothing good except disgrace will bring it. Dear National Deputies! You could understand everything, you could forgive inexperience, you could forgive incompetence, you could forgive incompetence, you could forgive incompetence, but there is a question, and especially I have, as in the first ambassador to the United States, as the heads of the Republican Electoral Committee on the election of the first President, how can we allow it? There is the Foreign Ministry, the National Academy, and someone has to be responsible for producing and implementing our government's position. We demand that these facts be investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u31	You can't talk because you're speaking to Sergienka, who read about the People's Party. The People's Party told you, they exchanged lines. That's enough. And the procedure is the same. We haven't gotten to the procedure yet, we've been talking for an hour and a half. Yes, dear colleagues, here I am accused, more faithfully, of writing by Olena Bondarenko and Vladimir Yavorowski, that I did not read clearly: not “the health doctor” but the “veterinary”. We checked the transcript, but let's read it out. It was read correctly, but they want us to vote with you. The parliamentary request from the National Deputies Group, Yavorowski and Bondarenko, to the President of Ukraine for the inadmissibility of further delays in the appointment of a chief health care doctor, Ukraine's health care professional, whose position has been vacant for more than eight months, which has a major impact on the efficiency of the state's sanitary and epidemiological services. There is a vote in favour of the request. Vote. [[11:34:57]] For 124 Not supported. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. In short procedure: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. [[new editor]] Number 8207. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Sejevich Ivan Bronislavovich. Please, three minutes. From the committee to prepare Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u33	Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm making a note. When the question is completed, you will be asked. There's a reporter in the rostrum. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, which was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement a national programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation and relevant decrees by the President of Ukraine. It is known that Ukraine was the first country to adopt the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act in May 1991, which laid the foundations for state policy in this area. According to experts, the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is one of the best in Europe. However, issues such as the protection of consumer rights in the acquisition of goods outside commercial premises, the distance purchase of products, the acquisition of goods for credit for general product safety and the prohibition of unfair terms of consumer contracts are virtually not covered. Moreover, some changes in Ukrainian legislation have taken place since the adoption of the law. Product development and market promotion are constantly improving, requiring appropriate changes to the existing law. The aim of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of European legislation regarding consumer protection, product safety and market placement. With the adoption of the law, the task of adapting the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act to nine directives of the European Union is to be implemented. The draft law lays down the requirement for consumer information on prices, legal relations related to the conclusion of consumer contracts at a distance and contracts made at commercial and business premises, and on consumer lending. Moreover, a specific provision has been made regarding the non-compliance of contracts limiting consumer rights. The prohibition of dishonest entrepreneurship is laid down. The adoption of this law will allow the protection of consumers' rights to be brought into line with existing economic and social realities, ensure a balance between interests and the freedom to engage in entrepreneurial activities, promote trade relations between Ukraine, the European Community and the States participating in the Single Economic Area. It should also be noted that the bill is supported by the Ukrainian board of entrepreneurs. In view of the above, I ask the National MPs to support this bill and vote as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich. There's one thing I don't understand: why would the Social Committee say Alexander Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u36	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The distinguished President, the people's deputies, the bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Protection Act, which was introduced into the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers, was considered at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, which is the subject of the Committee's consideration of these issues. All interested parties, including the representative of a public organization, were considered: Ukrainian Consumer Association. The Committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis, although a number of comments have been made in the course of the consideration of the bill. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers in the development of its mythical programme of accelerated accession to the European Union. In fact, this bill adapts our existing legislation in this respect to European Union directives. The main changes are editorial in nature, some terms, provisions, requirements describing the procedure for protecting consumer rights in our market are clarified. A significantly new procedure, in the bill, is the procedure that describes the verification of the conformity of goods sold by standards. To date, seized goods are actually direct losses to producers and traders. They took the coats, the boots, there's some other stuff to check out. And, in fact, no one compensates for these losses, and this bill will be budgeted. The comments made by public consumer protection organizations do not mean that their rights to control the quality of goods, especially the performance of services, are substantially narrowed. If the organizations currently in force have the right to control not only goods but also works and services, it is now proposed to limit their right to control only goods. It is proposed that this underdevelopment be eliminated during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u37	Yeah, let's get down to business. Please, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Right here, the hot supporters of the euro of integration tell me that you and I are considering this bill in the bourgeois parliament. Thank you for the tip. And I want to draw our common attention to how the government of capitalist ministers is trying to integrate themselves first, and the people of Ukraine, let them suffer poverty in the Ukrainian countryside. What should we pay attention to? First of all, in some parts of the project there is a narrowing of consumer rights, which violates the rules of article 22 of the Constitution, which prohibits the adoption of new laws or the amendment of existing laws to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. First of all, this affects the rights of civil society. What's more, we're building a so-called civil society. Therefore, without settling the matter in the body of the law, this law cannot be adopted even on a basis. Second, in paragraph 26 of the first article, there is a definition of what such counterfeit products are. You and I know what forging choices is, we know what falsifying products is when you come to any store, and they're going to give you as many as 25 varieties of sausage or any kind of attractive wine with such beautiful labels. And when you start eating it, it's so disgusting that there's no words, and you don't know where to go. Thus, without a clearer definition of counterfeit production, this law cannot be adopted even on the basis of it. Because then our consumer will wander among the different institutions that will advise him how he himself will defend his right. And given that it will normally be sent to the judicial system, we know with you that we have a judicial system that is imperfect, that is, under such conditions there will be no protection of consumer rights. Product safety. This is also the safety of the environment. So we need to work more thoroughly in the body of the law on just such matters as to look like the environment after consumption of the product. And finally. They are very concerned about creating conditions for consumers to acquire the necessary knowledge about the realization of their rights. The best way to do that is to do it under conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski. Behind him is Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u40	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina I would like to say, with the admiration of listening to my predecessor, that I would very much like to work in a bourgeois parliament -- that would be much better and smarter, then we would never vote against using airplanes in NATO or anything like that. And what's more, I'd like to have the scope of services that bourgeois countries have. So here's the thing about this bill. It seems that Hall said that a country with 279 varieties of cheese could not be ruled. I think it's very easy for Ukraine to run, because we've just got a little bit of something coming up. What's more, we came out with you from a society that didn't buy goods yesterday, but actually acquired goods or obtained goods through a friend, godfather, a saint. Because of their quality, it was. Today, in the rainstorm, after all, and with the generosity in the stores that we have, this problem usually arises. I fully support, me and our faction of Reform and Order, supporting this bill. It takes into account so many of the new realities of life that we have today, so this new edition is really much more progressive. It's not that, even I'm less interested in, let's say, sections where the quality of the product is. It's clear. The biggest problem we have today is the quality of service delivery, the quality of service delivery. For today, in fact, according to this law, whether it be people, our electorate hears, we can bring to trial the same Jack that will long not give us the same warm water or give it to the poor. This is finally already in this bill. I understand that not everyone will go to court, but I have a house here in the Barish district in the village. I've been on the phone for about a decade now. Actually, no one's asking me, they're taking my phone away, and they're transferring me to a country phone that works once every two months. And I'm itchy, I'm running out of time to just take it up and pass it on to the court. Even under the old law, you can bring them to trial and whoever did it, whatever it is he can count on for it. As a result, I am absolutely convinced that this bill should be adopted, but it must be in a second reading. I'm here to add a very important moment to it. It's an international rule. It has to be a national language instruction and an explanation of what this product is. We've got a lot of smuggling products coming in. No one thinks about what needs to be translated. I don't speak English anymore, I don't speak Russian. And in general, this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u41	John the Rabbit. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u42	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of our faction is to adopt this bill in the first reading and then work on it. The point is that when we move to market relations, there is a need for a qualitatively new mechanism to protect consumers' rights, and the law that we have today, it's out of date, it's out of date, it's out of date in many ways. Therefore, changes in the complex nature are needed. For example, today it is possible to obtain goods via the Internet or there is television sales, and how consumer rights are protected here today is the subject of regulation of this new bill. So my proposals to improve this bill are as follows: Article 1. This article defines terms, I think we need to expand the circle of terms and improve them, because there is a term for counterfeit products. If you read that term, you will see that it does not contain any other concept than ordinary production. So there is a need for detail and a more precise definition of the concepts and terms used in this law. Article 7. Article 7 speaks of a guarantee obligation. You have to write this article in such a way that every seller has, when they give you the product, they have given you some kind of document that confirms or sets guaranteed terms for a particular product, because there's a lot of controversy that there's no such document. Now we take Article 11. This is about protecting consumers when they get credit. Again, we need to extend those protection mechanisms that we have today under normal terms of credit, particularly to detail the standards of repayment of credit or exchange of goods. There's not enough in this bill to protect our consumer. Similarly, we need to write the articles on new types of trade in this one, more detailing the consumer protection mechanism outside of commercial premises is online trade. This requires that there be a product, information that sells the product, which is the quality of the product, and that is how a person buys it, that information does not exist, that there are such delicate situations and that there is no one to turn to, and that there is no quality of the product for which any claim can be made. So you have to look at the perspective, you have to look strategically. And I think there's a way in which we can improve this bill. So the faction of the Ukrainian National Party proposes acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u43	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's be clear. Come on, let's mobilize. The law is interesting. I think we need to support it, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's a policy in the sense that we're good, we're improving the working conditions so that we can, more faithfully, protect the rights of consumers. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, registration number 8207. [[new editor]] We vote because each of us is a consumer. We vote friendlyly. [[11:52:24]] For 268. Copy that. No, they say we can do it as a law. No objections? You can't. You can't, they say. Let's wait. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[concerning the delegation of approval of the composition of supervisory boards]] Minister of Education and Science Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, Bill No. 7,094 Please, three minutes. Kafarsky's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! The bill provides for a change in the procedure for approval of the composition of the supervisory board of the National Higher Education Institute. In particular, it is proposed that approval of the composition of the Supervisory Board of the National Education Institute be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Science rather than to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers it possible to adopt such changes, as they will allow the superior central authorities of the executive branch to approve the composition of the supervisory boards and simplify this bureaucracy. I'd like to say literally a few numbers. Dear National Deputies! Over the past few years, 59 decrees were adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers after the approval of supervisory councils. If, for example, the situation has changed, someone has broken out or, say, moved a citizen or something else has happened, the Cabinet of Ministers has to be prepared again. I mean, it's a terrible bureaucracy, it's a load on universities, it's a huge number of people being distracted. Now, I need 13 instructions to report, and in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers is taking on what the scientific council is proposing, and the Ministry of Education and Science is offering. So, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I have a proposal to support this bill and it could even be read on two readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u45	I think we can, just tell us what you think we have 59 nationals. Soon all will be national.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'll tell you something else. I did not sign up for any decision and no application for the assignment of “national” during my tenure as minister. It's not enough that we're in the process of developing changes to legislation, of a presidential decree to increase the autonomy of higher education institutions, so-called, self-governance, and I think national issues will be resolved. They're practically all going to be national. I don't think we have nationals in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u47	That's what this is about. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u48	He's ready, he's coming in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky, secretary of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a draft of the Law, which the Minister of Education and Science has just informed us of, which clearly defines the rule that the composition of the Supervisory Board of the National Higher Education Institute is approved by the Central Authority of the Executive Authority in which it is subordinated. In fact, as of today, the number of national universities has grown to 57, and these supervisory boards are in the first phase of the boards of scientists, later served at the Ministry of Education and Science, later to the Cabinet of Ministers. This long - term procedure, which is essentially not necessary today. We considered this bill on the Committee on Science and Education and supported it. But in view of the amendments to the Higher Education Act, we have introduced this position to the Higher Education Act, but the President has returned this law to us, and in fact, the standards that we need to work on will take a month or a half. And so far, the Ministry has to work with these supervisory councils. We gathered members of the Committee on Science and Education today, looked at this issue once again, and decided to uphold this law, this position. So that it will act from this day forward. Please vote in favour of passing the functions of approval of the Supervisory Boards to the central executive body, the Ministry of Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. They say they want it. Please, Sergey Ivanovich, Droguncs, Communist faction. Yavorovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to invite you to support the draft of this law, so that it will be easy for both the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the composition of the supervisory boards as soon as possible. Later, this rule will be incorporated into the law of a wider scale. I want to say that there are more than 300 third and fourth levels of accreditation in Ukraine today. As mentioned earlier, about half of them are smaller, but about half of them are now national, which means they have oversight councils. In my opinion, the oversight board at the National Higher Education Institute is needed as a bell ring. But that's the norm of the next law. And we'll get back to that. And today there's this norm, it's working, and it needs to be empowered by the Cabinet of Ministers from all the damage to the authority of the Cabinet of Ministers to hand over to the higher authority in this field, that is, in the field of education and science. I have another issue that concerns me: the composition of these oversight counselings. It should be that the ministry that we're handing over these functions today has been more scrupulous in controlling the composition of these supervisory boards, because people get there and they don't even know what it is, and people are often incompetent. So I have this request to the Ministry and to the Minister that they be more careful, rather than formal, to endorse the decisions of the councils of scientists at higher educational institutions. I want to say that there's little to do with supervisory advice, but it can affect the quality of learning, and that's our biggest and most painful problem. The quality of learning is steadily declining, and we can lose our position as Soviet authorities. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u53	And thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. Vasil Nadraga is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u54	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina I think that the bill that we're looking at is actually kind of casuistic and formal. I would leave behind such a discussion theme — whether supervisory advice is needed or not in higher education institutions. It's already a given, and that's understandable. I get this impression because of this huge butaphoric number of colleges that have the names of scientific centres, the teaching centers that have the national title, that soon the most prestigious will be to join a child in a normal, normal college, not a national college, because they've been so much overdoing -- then by the mud, then by the acquaintance, then, someone there has been opposed, I think it's very good that we've stopped from this for a while now, because soon the technicians and the teachers would have become national. As a result, all of us are well aware of the approval of such an oversight council in the Cabinet of Ministers. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Education gave it, and they gave it to their people, their candidates, and they formally approved it in the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, maybe someone brought some bribe there and stuff, then they kicked someone out or added someone else. So now it's going to be a little bit simpler. But, Minister, I am thinking about this: world practice is a huge, authoritative educational institution, which is usually completely independent, independent! They have self - government. So how are we going to go this way? Consider our National University of Taras Shevchenk. He's not in the general system, he has a special status. How will these things affect him? I'd like you to tell me about it in the final five minutes. In general, there is no objection; it is purely cassualism, the simplification of the process itself, as my colleague Droguntz has said before, we support this bill and are willing to vote for it. The only thing is not to do anything stupid with the self-governance of major national schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u55	Basil Nadrag, followed by Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u56	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, the question of simplifying the procedure is rightly raised because, in fact, the observational boards of the Ministry were so content to say, in fact, the idea here was that the Cabinet of Ministers had the same ministry. But I would like to draw attention to the following: We need to be clear to ourselves that this is a form of public control. And in developing this message, I think we can then properly create and understand that we want to create and how public control should exist in higher education institutions. Not enough, I think, speaking of this subject, we need to understand with you that in all other things, in the monitoring boards, in order to perform the functions, I stress, in public control, we need to ask questions. It must be the Ministry's policy not to be that of people who are close to the Rector, not people who are close to leadership, but, in fact, respected, authoritative scientific and educational personnel who can and are committed and willing to implement. In a good way, public control. Because if only people appointed de facto or de jure were to enter the boards of observation, in this case it is not important to be a leader, it would be bad. Another moment I'd like to mention. I think so. The question must be raised that the monitoring boards should appear in all higher education institutions, the fourth level of accreditation. Because much can be debated today: it has devalued or devalued the wording “national VUZ” or what, status, but in any case there are VUZs. And the presence of a monitoring board is thought to be a good step towards the development of our education system, if the monitoring boards show up, I will repeat again: in all higher education institutions, the fourth level of accreditation. This will be normal, this will be the best tradition of higher education, higher education that has emerged since the Middle Ages, as soon as the first institutions of higher education have been established. For self-government, participation in administration. The participation of the public in the lives of higher education institutions is, in fact, a real mechanism for the promotion and activity of higher education institutions and their places in public life, both development and development, improvement and the development of studenthood, as well as people who in the future will actually take responsibility for the present future of our country. That's why I think we'll support the bill. And that's the right thing to do. And that, I said, I think it's okay, it's got to be legal. On the other hand, it must be a programme to be carried out by the Ministry of Education. In that case, I think. It's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u57	Only Vasil Ivanovich, what you said “legislatively secure” or law, please Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u58	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. We believe that it is relevant, and today it meets the requirements of our society. I'd like to make a statement on behalf of the Socialist Party faction. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has recently celebrated 14 years. The main task that was before our party, we did -- we changed the Ukrainian government, we changed the Couchma criminal regime. Over the years, the party has been growing. We claim that there will never be socialists in the government, and it has never been given from the party to build a party. The main task of our government is to deal with the problems of the state, to build a state, to deal with socio-economic problems. And that's why neither Minister Lucenko nor Minister Nikolainko nor Minister Baranowski nor the head of the State Property Fund will be involved in the construction of the party, and we don't need it. If someone needs an administrative resource, they apply it, we don't need it. Today, Ukraine’s Socialist Party has 150,000 members. People come to us, they come to us. And so, the venerable TV and radio audiences, all the attacks on the Socialist Party, they have no reason. Once again, in the government, we are to work for the state, not to build a party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u59	What, what? Yes, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u60	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable national deputies, the process of forming supervisory boards of higher education institutions, is overly bureaucratic and politicized to some extent. At the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, the issue of the formation of supervisory councils is being addressed. It's too much, it's too much, it's useless. It is now proposed in the bill that these functions be passed on to the Ministry of Science and Education. Education and science. This is a step in the right direction. But I don't think it's enough. This function should be passed on to higher education institutions. That's exactly what self-governance is, to solve these issues at the level of higher education. I'm assuming that the Ministry might have something to do with this. But the question should be addressed by higher education institutions. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading. But in the process of preparing for second reading, I will make this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u61	Volodymyr Kirilovich, so let's go even more democratically than you. Volodymyr Kirilovich, let's go even more democratically. We're taking them out at all. Why? If the U.S.O. himself were to appoint, why would he make a statement about the structure? There's a rector, let him run it. Tissuenko, a minute out of the procedure, for reasons of vote. Tissue, please. And Hellcat, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I believe that the issue under discussion today is very important. And our task with you is to make sure that the UCCs are further developed. In order to have children with the necessary knowledge, and not through their parents'wallets, access to VUZs. In this regard, it is important to understand that the more observers there will be, the more the cost of entry. That's why I think. Less observers, and more public control, and should return to the historical form of the Council at the WUZA, the Board of Trustees, where former VUZA graduates have assisted VUZ, developed, strengthened traditions. Here's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u63	Yes, we'll vote. Dear colleagues, let us hear the words of the minister, those who spoke. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers is something to do, yet it only formalizes what the Ministry is preparing. Let us adopt this law. It is made up of one sentence, generally as a law. I would like to vote on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the transfer of approvals for the composition of supervisory boards, registration number 7094. Please vote. Vote. [[12:12:09]] For 263 The law is passed. I put to the vote as a whole as a law. Yes. Don't ask, and the applications are coming. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Social Democrats also want breaks. Please, Vitaly Mother. Three minutes. We voted in general as a law. Vitaly Ivanovich, please go to the rostrum. I immediately put him in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u64	Statement by the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine indignantly appeals to all national deputies of Ukraine and the State’s law enforcement agencies and calls for an end to lawlessness before the election of Ukraine’s national deputies and the 2006 local elections. As soon as the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs ratings exceeded 3%, and the Party has shown itself to be a stable political power of society, a brutal struggle has begun against the party structures in the region. And it's not just approachable polytechnics, it's criminal activity. So in the Zakarpatsk district of Uzhgrad, the head of the Zacarpathian territorial party organization “Industrials and Entrepreneurs” Tsab Istwan Yuliyovich was brutally beaten by unknown fighters. In Lugansk, Lugansk was attacked and looted by the Lugansk territorial party’s “Industrials and Entrepreneurs” district election headquarters. The “Industrials and Entrepreneurs” faction expresses a strong protest against the actions noted and personally asks the Attorney General of Ukraine to take personal control over the crimes identified, to prevent delays in the investigation process. The faction prepares an appropriate letter to the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine and according to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Here we go to the Project Approval Order of the National Information Programme for 2006-2008. There are two projects: the Cabinet of Ministers -- 7583 and the deputies -- 7583D. Please provide 7583 Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Vasil Teodorovich, 3 minutes. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Information Programme is a mechanism through which national regulation in the field of information is being implemented in Ukraine to ensure the system, complexity and coherence of information processes in Ukraine and to help address the current challenges of today's information society in Ukraine. The draft Decision approving the National Information Programme for 2006-2008 was designed to implement the laws of Ukraine on a national information programme and on the concept of a national information programme. The project is designed on the basis of general proposals made by mainstream government contractors, taking into account the priorities defined by the laws of Ukraine, the decisions of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Council of National Security and Defence. In addition, the results of the implementation of the National Information Programme in 2003 and 2004 and the expected results of the programme in 2005. In designing the project, the strategic priorities for the next three years and the content of individual tasks were clarified and specified. The main focus was on the creation and implementation of integrated projects that would allow for the creation of state-of-the-art information infrastructure. This is usually conceptual work in the field of information or inter-known information and analysis systems, which cannot be created without the participation of the coordinating body, which is the National National Information Programme of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine. The draft act does not provide for funding for the tasks of the National Information Programme. The funding of the programme in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian National Information Programme Act is determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. According to the procedure, the project is aligned with Minfin, Mineconomy, and Minyust, whose comments are fully taken into account. The draft tasks were reviewed and supported at meetings of the Supreme Council Committee on Education and Science, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Word and Information, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. On that basis, please support the proposed draft Supreme Council ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u67	Thank you, Vasil Theodoreovich. Have a seat. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, Head of the Committee on Science and Education, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The previous reporter has already made the main points in this regard. I want to say that those committees that have been listed have made proposals and observations. These suggestions and observations are reflected in such additional paragraphs of the decree. First, we consider it necessary to recommend to the Cabinet in carrying out the tasks of the National Information Programme for 2006 and to develop the project for the coming years 2007 and 2009 to provide funding for the Social Information Programme for science, education and culture. The second additional item is the decree: The Court of Auditors will carry out a financial audit of the use of the funds provided for in the 2005 State Budget for the implementation of the National Information Programme. Report on the results of the test to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a very important task, and we are said to have done so. Next item in the regulation. It is recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, within two months, the calculation of the volume and the identification of sources of funding for 2006 and 2008, including at the expense of the State Budget, which has been broken down over the years. This is also in line with the state policy that has now been declared in the President's decrees. And the last. To recognize that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the approval of the National Information Programme's tasks for 1999-2001 was invalidated by the number 914 and the 2000-2002 program, which is those that have already expired. I would like to remind you that even after the design was formed, additional proposals have been made, they are known to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. These proposals were also announced in parliamentary hearings. It seems to me that they can be further developed in the final design of the program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Discuss? You bastards, please. After him, Yavorowski. Igor Raphaelovich, you are not written down, you will be on the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. We had a programme for 2003-2005 that was never approved in this room. And taking into account this bitter experience, this time at the Committee on Science and Education, we did a great preparatory work to form a program that was presented by the Ministry. The head of the Rodionov subcommittee Mikhailo Kuzmić, who had just reported on her, played a particularly important role in her creation. I want to say that this program has both technical and technological and economic, and environmental, social aspects. It has to harmonize all these points. But the main thing is to secure its funding from the State budget, because without such funding nothing will be done. I want to emphasize that there is still no information society in Ukraine, no information society. We've been behind for many, many years, maybe tens of years from other developed countries. But we have this society already started to form, and we have to do everything we can to speed this up, to give the opportunity to start from school, starting with higher education institutions, including trade and technology, and so on, so that we can or can give these educational institutions how to prepare students more fully, and then students to work in a new society, which will certainly be an important step towards society of knowledge, when the decisive role in all socio-economic distortions will be education and science, education and science, which we have always been proud of, Ukraine has been among the three most educated states of the world. Unfortunately, we are gradually losing these gains of the Soviet era, but we need to put an end to it. And programs like this, which we're going to approve today, are a step forward in this direction. We ask for support and adoption of the Information Programme Act in the Ukrainian Society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u71	Vladimir Yavorowski. It's Basil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I cannot refuse to ask him to pass on the word of the wise renowned Ukrainian academic Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Please, Igor Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u73	I am pleased to support your offer. Igor Raphailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! I really want to repeat what Sergey Ivanovich said, stressing the great importance of this work done by the subcommittee on the information of our Committee on Science and Education, and especially the great work that Mikhail Kuzmić did. Let me make some further comments on this point. In general, Ukraine has two main goals: Ukraine has to move to the knowledge economy, and this is possible for us because the scientific potential of Ukraine is very high; and Ukraine has to create a middle class. As far as the first goal is concerned, we need to modernize the scientific laboratories of the National Academy of Sciences and National Universities. And right now, on the information line, we're creating an academic fibre line of a very powerful 10 gigabbit operation in one second, not 10 kilobits that we have, but a million times that will connect Kharkiv, Kyiv, Lviv, Ravu-Russia and join the European system. Through Kharkiv and Eagle, we connect with the Deep Moscow region, and we thus close the academic fibre ring, which we will later connect all the main centers of Ukraine, as I said, Harkow, Donetsk, Odessa, Uzhgrad – this ring through Lviv is closing back to Kiev. In order to carry out this line, the budget for the following year already has a budget of 12 million. That's right. In addition, Ukraine is creating its own supercommunity with a huge amount of memory, namely, 502 nuclear processors. And so we need very little money on these things -- order 30 million. Next year's money. But thanks to our budget, Ukraine will achieve so much of the link between becoming a European and a scientific community that no other political or economic effort can achieve, of course, that is worth billions of money. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u75	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Vasil Calinchuk. Behind him is Hare Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Calinchuk, Clothing, faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! I'm going to say right now that our faction will support this draft decision, but I would like to draw attention to some problems that are somehow relevant to the life of our society. The problem of informing society is undoubtedly one of the key problems of its development and, without exaggeration, one of the most complex problems facing Parliament today. The point is that without proper professional preparation and thorough analysis and consideration of everything for and against each item of the program, we risk putting at risk a certain danger both for society as a whole and for each individual member of the program. In the first case, a complete transition to a fully informed management relationship in society and states place the latter in direct dependence on the functionality of the information and electronic network and any disruption in its technical or any diversification of the network can lead to disaster not only locally but also globally. In the second case, the formation of a complete data network, in other words, a record for every member of society, creates a precedent when each member of the community finds itself, as it were, under a cap. Such an all-seeing eye. I mean, it's an increase in surveillance, and I'm stressing that we're called upon to contribute to certain areas of the society's information program, which we can't accept at all from any position, including morality. In addition, the Constitution guarantees every citizen the right to privacy. So should we lay the groundwork for total control of the state in the face of civil servants in the near future? At first glance, the program seems to be harmonized, but there are a lot of questions and warnings in the deeper analysis. And there can't be any partnership arrangements, as they say, by honest word, without discussion and in a wide field of experts in different fields and thinking of all possible points in order to detect those underwater stones from the risk area, given the prospects for informing society as a whole. As an example, young people often hang on the Internet for hours under the influence of destructive factors that have violent effects on the still unformed mentality and consciousness of young people. Thus, society in the near future can become the face of its own generation. Once again, the faction of the People's Block of Lithuania, supporting the idea of creating an information program, still tends to conclude that there is a need for development and validation in one package with a package of measures to increase the level of e-information culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u77	John the Rabbit. Uh, and you're running, you're on the hall Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u78	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Our faction will support this decision. But it's the case that we can't wait for the best. The national information programme for 2006-2008 is very important. Two months from now, we have to start running this program, and we're just making a task for this program today. This is absurd, respectable friends, sin, and no more. If you are taking a task list, there are no terms. What are the terms anyway? When will these tasks be accomplished? In 2008, December 31st, or perhaps in 2006? This is a huge flaw in this decision. Similarly, when I look at the list of assignments themselves, I have had to hear about them for more than a year. I was still a minister in 2000-2001, and it was about creating an electronic government. I don't know how much money was spent creating such a network, but if we're saying that we need to re-create an electronic government, it probably wasn't created. So there must be some inventory, an audit of the decisions we made earlier, especially in the area of the use of national funds from the State Budget. If you look more closely at the list of tasks, you will see that this is about the branches, the public authorities. The national program essentially referred to the creation of public information networks. There's no block here that would put the public on this information network, and that's a fact. Create and implement a system of monitoring and predicting environmental pollution, so think about it: in one case we'll vote for the system, in the other case we'll vote for the design and implementation. It would be more appropriate if we recorded “implementation. So we need the final product, not some intermediate earnings for a particular department or for a particular decision. Therefore, it is necessary not to “create ” but to “implement a specific term. Then you can do it all. So, honourable national MPs, the problem is very difficult, but we're in a situation where we have to make any decision. Then the Supreme Council will push this process forward if it wants to push. But that. What we are lagging behind in creating information networks from all over the world and our neighbors is a fact. Therefore, we demonstrate, not the thinking of the twenty - first century, but the thinking of the nineteenth century. So the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party urges you to vote, but the things I've talked about need to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u79	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. But the Supreme Council isn't pushing, it's mobilizing. They want motive. Please, Black Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u80	Honorable National MPs. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. In this case, it's not about the information program, it's about the tasks to the program. Every three years. And the program is for every year. There are often changes. And that's why we can't have a very big deadline. Now it's about the task. What can be said about this. In general, I think we can support it. But really, it's only about informing authorities, government bodies. It's just the centrals. What about local self - government? In addition, society. So we need to think about what is the whole area of information. Besides. We need to think clearly about priorities, criteria, and these are systemic tasks. Because they are, to some extent, unsuspecting. And think about these questions. I think we need to confirm this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u81	And your opinion is correct. Corge, please, Vitaly. Behind him is Cibenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u82	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. In August, I was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and to the Board of Auditors, three parliamentary appeals on issues to be included in the list of tasks of the National Information Programme 2006-2008, which we are considering today. Positive answers were received regarding the inclusion of proposed additions in the list of these tasks. The additions I proposed were referred to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Please support the proposed decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve a list of the tasks of the National Information Programme, taking into account my additions and to provide the Scientific and Educational Committee with a protocol mandate, together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to ensure that the proposals are made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. On Sunday, November 6, there is a special professional festival, the Day of Social Workers. On behalf of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, on behalf of the Communist factions of the Supreme Council, I would like to extend a warm and warm welcome to all social workers in the professional world and to welcome twice the women who make up 90% of the workforce. The low tide of these people is that they are in snow and rain, day and night, on the day of work, and on the weekends they go to the sick, they go to the afflicted, they go to the afflicted, they carry out their sacred obligations. Why do they do it, as they say, not for fear, but for conscience. Thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u85	And let them have the information program that we're about to receive. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, even though we have two draft decrees here, the government and the committee, we have agreed with the government that we will support the committee's draft ruling, because we approve the same program, only in the committee's draft of the rulings are more widely described what to do. And it's the committee's job, and it's the Cabinet of Ministers, Ivan Alexanderovich. Yeah. The Cabinet of Ministers, we approve the program, but... In the decree given by the Cabinet of Ministers, one word is to approve the program. The committee’s ruling also proposes that specific tasks be approved. That's why we're voting, honourable colleagues, by agreement, once again, the Cabinet of Ministers, we're voting on Bill 7583-D. I am voting on the adoption of this ruling as a whole. Vote. Ivan Alexanderovich, yes, yes, ask the deputy minister. We're voting friendlyly. [[12:38:59]] For 221 Excuse me, sit down, mobilize. I'm betting on the whole adoption of the approval of the programme, more faithfully, on the approval of the National Information Programme's tasks for 2006-2008, registration number 7583-D. Please vote. [[12:39:42]] For 255 Thank you. It's a program. Ivan Alexandrovich, while we are working on it, the new government will come. Come on, let's give it something. We'll give this government something, Ivan Alexanderovich! Yes. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation in Ukraine is under consideration, registration number 7360. [[by abbreviated procedure]] According to the Minister of Education, Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, prepare for the Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law is being proposed with a view to implementing a more complete and objectively annual implementation of the priorities of innovation in Ukraine. You know that these priorities are defined by law and that at the end of the year, specific information is given to the Cabinet of Ministers by April 1 each year. But since the law, you can see, there's a comparative table in the law. This information was somewhat incomplete, and the government is proposing to increase this information to clarify it, particularly in terms of cost-effective innovation, to perform program tasks and government procurement, innovative capital injections, capital injections for the program's tasks, and government procurement for priorities. And also part of the program's progress and part of the innovation work. So in order to be clear about whether these are really innovative projects, which are based on new knowledge, are projects, let's say, related to this. In this regard, we propose making these changes and voting them. They will allow us today to more effectively, say, evaluate innovative activities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u87	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich, sit down. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, head of the Committee on Science and Education
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! There was a law on the priorities of innovation in Ukraine. As a result, innovation benefits some additional benefits. This law was introduced by the previous government of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who looked very intently at these tax benefits that are being paid. But since innovation was to develop, the government proposed replacing the ninth article with a more precise definition of what report should be given by the relevant organizations and companies involved in innovation. The information used to be quite general. That is, there was this general information about the amount of innovative capital injections relative to the annual level of depreciation, the size of income, the size of total funding of science and technology relative to annual GDP. This information did not allow us to know, but what was new about the company. And so it's suggested to replace this information, to complement it with the actual more precise information that the minister has already been talking about here, namely, the share of the cost of innovation in general, the share of the cost of carrying out the tasks of the program and the public procurement, the share of the innovative capital investment, the share of the public procurement programme's tasks from the priority direction of innovation. In short, the government offers more stringent control over innovation activities that will have certain tax benefits. We ask for this law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u89	Yes, will we discuss it? Rodionov. Behind him, Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Communist faction will support this bill, but I want to make it clear to everyone that it is. I don't know what changes If the records used to be in volumes, for example, innovative in thousands, well, who knows, 500,000 is a lot or a little bit. Now it's all here. i.e., well, it is proposed and correct, which part is made up of the total output. Well, that makes sense. And given the fact that the reporting deadline was also there on 1 June, which was in April, that is, strictly speaking, technical, but also perfectly legitimate, however, what we are doing with innovation. In this regard, I would like to say or point out my views, as they say. Of course, it is the most difficult or most dangerous activity to date. We already have so many programs, we have so many directions, but the main thing is that these areas and programmes are not being implemented. I was just reading one of the articles today. In order for the State to develop, at least one fifth of the gross domestic product must be channelled to innovative activities. [[State means that technology, technology]] That is, in general, Ukraine needs about 100 billion bracelets to invest annually. Take what we've got, you can imagine. I mean, we're not going for a bigger one right now, we're going for an exponent down. We have all the industries, industry, and less and less to contribute to the development of Ukraine. I mean, when Ukraine's development is its industrial potential, it's its agricultural potential, it's ultimately the potential of our people, it's the educational potential. We often see Stanislav Nikolaevich often, saying: the quality of education. How can this quality be compared? Of course, you can do it on tests, and that's actually what you have to do. But the main quality is when a specialist comes to the industry where he needs to work and how much he is able to do new activities. This is the quality of training. I say this then, if we don't have a long-term development strategy in Ukraine today, while we're painting holes. If we continue to do so, I think we will always be “losing the potential that there is”. And this is a bill I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u91	Sergey Zizko. Mikola Sherschun is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u92	Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Lord Chairman! Deputies! First of all, I would like to support this bill's proposals, because their implementation will allow us to determine the effectiveness of implementing the priorities of innovation in relation to the overall production of innovation and the development and implementation of innovation in general. The intensive development of innovation technologies is an absolute priority for Ukraine, because this is the only way to accelerate our country's entry into the leading countries of the world. However, in my view, the law in force lists the strategic priorities of innovation is somewhat divisive. In particular, such priorities as transport systems, construction and reconstruction, protection and recovery of humans and the environment are, of course, unlikely to be part of the innovation circle. And according to a large estimate, the only truly strategic priority for introducing innovation for Ukraine is to develop new and renewed sources of energy and new resources of conservation technology. In the face of the gradual depletion of traditional energy resources in Russia and the world, for Ukraine and its own energy deficit, this trend is a guarantee of survival and prosperity in the future world. Developed countries are now providing 10 to 15 of their energy needs at the expense of nontraditional sources. The country’s economy remains the most energy - intensive economy in the world. For every thousand dollars, Ukraine consumes 10 times more gas than Poland, and 40 times more than Germany. As they say, comments are unnecessary. Even the use of alternative environmentally sound renewable sources of energy: the sun, wind, small and medium rivers, etc. - that is, the sources for which long-tested technologies exist, their use develops too slowly in Ukraine. We only recently started using coal methane, but at the development stage, biogas, hydropower, biofuels, fuel elements, heat pumps, etc. The Kyiv company Quasar now holds a niche of more than eight percent of the world’s silicon photoelectric batteries, but exports all its products. Meanwhile, in Austria, there are now 13 square feet [13 sq m] of solar collectors per inhabitant. Similar programs are being implemented intensively in the United States, Germany. By focusing its efforts on energy innovation, Ukraine could in the shortest possible time bring about a technological breakthrough, rid itself of energy dependence. In the present circumstances, when a long list of innovative activities is determined by law, I feel it necessary to support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u93	Mikola Shershun. Behind him is Hare Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u94	Mikola Shershun, the People's Block of Lithuania. The question is very important. Today, we all have to make it clear that without intensive innovation within the state, the economy is declining. But society is irreversibly transformed into a market for developed countries, up to the loss of sovereignty. That is why every country in the world who wants economic growth needs to take care of the development of innovation and contribute to the growth of capacity. For example, most of the world’s leading corporations to improve their production and introduce new production patterns range from seven to 12 percent of gross income. Target programmes are being put in place to support activities that will have economic impact in the medium and long term. In this regard, Ukraine is currently losing a lot of money to developed countries. In Ukraine, only those areas that generate immediate profits are well financed, such as the construction sector, where profitability sometimes accounts for about 400 percent, which is absurd to developed nations. According to world experience, one of the largest cumulative contributions to capital is to contribute to scientific potential and skilled professionals. These investments usually make 200 to 400 percent a year after five or seven years. Agree that it is high - quality professionals who are the ones who have the hope of carrying out innovative activities and organizing the manufacturing process. The breakthrough in at least one of the scientific fields contributes to the fact that the economy of the state automatically engages powerful capitals that can continue to be directed towards the development of other scientific spheres or social needs. Ukraine has not yet lost its potential in aviation, space engineering and some other. Let's highlight it for now. But with such State support for innovation, which is still being observed today, he will no doubt lose out. The National Party's faction sees the strategic direction of developing the economy as an innovative activity in the country. Therefore, the introduction at the legislative level of mechanisms that would allow for the creation of the most favourable climate for the inclusion of significant, including private, resources, needs to develop innovative activities requires, above all, the support of our legislators. So our faction considers it appropriate to support this bill in the first reading, taking further account of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u95	Thank you. He's handing over 30 seconds to Nigger. Ivan the Hare, after him 1.5 minutes the Black One.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u96	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we must agree with you that the volumes in which innovation is being carried out in Ukraine today are not what is insufficient, they are dangerous to the future of Ukraine, to the future economy. That's what we need to realize, like two times. Because we see how far we are from other countries. We see where we really invest the money. We invest in mining, in fact, natural resources, raw materials, but not in high-tech industries. So we need to take very, very responsible steps in that direction to activate innovative activities. And it's not about the technology of the industrial period, and it's not about the technology of today, it's about the technology of the 20th century, it's about the post-industrial period of the information age. They should see the technology. And put these in, implement these technologies in priority areas. I can't accept that we can't have our own agricultural machinery to date with such natural resources to develop agricultural production. As far as this bill is concerned, this bill allows us to evaluate more precisely innovation projects. The thing is, innovation projects, they, they get the benefits, they get the big benefits. And these innovation projects are being implemented on a number of levels -- it's a project, it's a level, we're going to talk in a particular field, and it's a level of state. If you look at article 9 of the current legislation, we were offered a system of indicators to assess the effectiveness of innovation, I would say it is only suitable for this state level. But they do not measure the effectiveness of a particular project, or of a separate sector? So if we accept these amendments that are proposed, we'll give a better control tool, not just for the national MPs, but for the management of this sphere at all three levels: at the level of the innovation project, at the level of innovation within the field and at the level of the state. So the point of this amendment is to improve the tool. But we need to change ideologies, we need to change our approach, we need to finally understand that we need an economy of knowledge, and so we need a highly educated student and a lot of money in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u97	Yes, please, Nigger, one and a half minutes, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u98	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the most profound and most dangerous for the future in Ukraine is the innovation and investment crisis. I think it's all the efforts of Parliament, both the government, and the President, and the local government, if you take this measure of authority, that should be aimed at overcoming the innovation and investment crisis. In Ukraine, there is a lack of conceptual thinking, a lack of strategic solutions, and a lack of financial resources to deal with this crisis. Well, that's how I got the general context. Now it's about the bill. I think we have all the necessary and sufficient reasons to support it, because it refers to a clear definition of priorities in the field of innovation. If we compare them with what was before and what is proposed, of course we should give priority to what is proposed. In particular, it is suggested that priorities be defined as part of the cost of innovation in the total cost of production, performance, and service. Part of the cost of running programs and public procurement, part of the innovative capital, part of the capital injections of the programs and the state procurement of programs and the state procurement of the priorities of innovation activities, and so on. I mean, I think this is really where the priorities are set out correctly, clearly and up to date. That's why we can support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Question completed. You're welcome to mobilize. We will vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation in Ukraine. Registration number 7360. Please vote. Vote. [[12:59:07]] For 268. Thank you. Let's take it as a law, because there's one sentence. We vote as a whole as a law, we vote. [[12:59:30]] For 277 Thank you. The law is passed. John Alexanderovich, do not exaggerate your merits; others also read. Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have a question here: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. But by decree yesterday, we removed these bills from our consideration. They just didn't make it, so we're not looking at them today. Thus, we have exhausted the order of the day. And they agreed with you that there would be no “various”. Please sign up for “Virgin”. Lights up, lights up, push well. Yes, please show me. Prepare for the performances. I'm going to make an announcement right now, there's a whole series of announcements. In accordance with article 4, paragraph 3, and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, since 4 November 2005, I will inform you of the exclusion of the national deputies of Ukraine, Astrov-Šumilova Hennadia Kostinović and Mikoko Mihajlovich, from the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko. There's no telling why. Yes. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I inform Ukraine’s national deputy, Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, of the composition of Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Yes. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I inform Ukraine's Supreme Council regulations on the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Pravdenka Sergija Makarović from the Party's “One Ukraine” MP and his membership in the People's Party's Deputy faction. He asked for such a statement. The Party’s “One Ukraine” faction is preparing to go to the elections in the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Three years ago, I stepped out of this block and it would be immoral for me to use the high rating of Yulia Timoshenko. That would mean going through, not going into the MPs. Therefore, I express my deep respect for the veterans of the Block, with whom I have had the honour of going through a difficult section of the road and reporting on my exit from the respectable faction of “The One Ukraine”, which has nothing to do with any other than the said crime. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Constantine's Evgena Semenović, from the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, and his membership in the “One Ukraine” party. That is, there are now 14 national deputies in “One Ukraine”. That's enough to function as a fraction. Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 2 of the Supreme Council Rules, Zaligin Vasil Viktorovich and Sváš Dmitr Volodimirovic of the People's Party Dept. and its membership in the MP's faction of the Ukrainian region. Yes, please, one hour is different. Yes, please, Mikola Oneschuk, prepare Tarana. Taran, please follow him. Please, Taran's microphone. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u100	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Please give Boris Illlich my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u101	Please, Boris Oilynik, follow him, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand. That universal factors such as peace and human rights are indivisible and have no boundaries or selectivity. From the point that we're told in the Parliamentary Assembly by the French or the Germans that we don't have the full power to work on the principles of pluralistic democracy, we take these remarks with understanding. Because our reviewers have something to learn. When we are converted to these virtues, for example, Americans, we remind teachers of electric chairs, unprovoked bombings of Serbia, Afghanistan, Iraq and other manifest and hidden sins. The question is, do capitalists even have the moral right to complain about a democracy? We find it unpleasant and unacceptable when some of Moscow’s self - called self - declarators aim to determine the degree of human rights in us. We respond appropriately by appealing to international law that warns against interference with the internal affairs of the sovereign. At the same time, it is not uncommon for us to try to teach someone democracy. I was repeatedly forced to look down shyly when, in the Council of Europe, members of the friendly nations showed me the findings of some of our colleagues who had taken up human rights in foreign lands. I would like to urge you to abstain from such disciplines at least until the parliamentary elections. There we have to pass the World Society's Certificate of Maturity on democracy and respect for human rights. I highlight, I'm just giving up, and we're already teaching others. But let's fight God. We have the first hundred meters sarcastically asked: “What about the discovery of the murder of Gongadze, Alexandrov? ” So before you learn democracy, let's say Belarus or Azerbaijanis or the Russians or anyone else, you have to clean up your home first so you don't have to borrow it in the gray eye. Because indeed, human rights do not necessarily allow selectiveness. Once we have fulfilled our obligations and responsibilities to the Council of Europe, we can try to go to the teacher. But never forget that while outside the state, assessing the actions of the presidents of third countries, especially the high-ranking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Kaletnik, after him, Pekleshenko passes the word Korsakovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u104	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] It's a new school year. Its beginning is always perceived as a holiday and brings us all together. For first-class students, September 1st is a step in the approach to adult life, for young people a step in the occupation. For us older ones, the first day of autumn is always filled with nostalgic memories of our own years of learning, joyful expectations. Working the entire holiday period with the electorate, I met with the students directly at preschool and preschools, schools, vocational schools, and universities, as well as at the traditional August district, district, and city meetings of educators. I will not go into detail about all the problems in the education system and my vision of solving them at both local and national levels. First. This is the inadequacy of the free feeding of those first - graders who are taught in preschool institutions. What was the problem here? Yesterday when they were preschoolers, they were in equal conditions, they went for walks, they sang, they danced, they rested, and now they were hungry when they became high school students. Is it natural to impose payment for their diet? It's not in schools, it's in preschool institutions. The other one. In all vocational and technical schools in general, and those who prepare mechanical personnel, in particular, have to use schematics, tables, cuts of 20-year-old aggregates even more. A large part of them were simply physically worn out and lost their aesthetic appeal. As for the new agricultural technician who is now working in the fields of Ukraine, there are no posters at all, no schemes for their study. According to the principal, Minosveti has unused funds, and therefore I ask the Minister of Education to make appropriate changes in favour of the solution. Next. This is the school bus program. There are two aspects here. The first is that there are no buses and this year they are virtually not bought or run. Second, where they are, there is no cost to charge them at current fuel prices. This is why buses are standing in most areas, and children are not provided. A request to Minosveta. Organize solutions to these issues, along with local government administrations. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Education. Thank you. Thank you, my countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u105	Please, Alexy Korsakov. Next Victor Gorbachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Korsakov Alexi, electoral district number 50. When a state is run by a real professional host, a country can benefit from even some problems. But if the populace has reached power, even the success that comes to their hands can result in serious trouble. That is the situation with the sale of “Criminals. ” Unanticipated large sums of money, yet yet to come to Ukraine, have already raised more questions than answers before the executive. Let's remind ourselves that the faction of the Party of Regions has consistently opposed the sale of a profitable enterprise, but the opinion of the parliament that supported this position has not been heeded by the executive authority. We'll need money for the election. How, then, will the party of authority benefit the people? It should be borne in mind that the reprivatization of the combination has taken place with numerous violations that give rise to the charges of privatization in the courts. In particular, Kabin’s approved terms of sale deprived the company’s workforce of the opportunity to participate in the competition, namely the violation of article 8 of the Law on Privatisation of State Property. It's different. There is a question about the legitimacy of the procedure, such as sales periods. The faction of the Party of the Regions highlights warnings from countries that have experience working with Mittal Table. Thus, the head of the Polish Embassy’s trade and economics department in Ukraine stated that the privatisation of the “Criminals” should not have been a priority because there was a negative experience of the Mittal Style management of similar companies in Polish businesses that protested workers’ unsatisfying working conditions. The situation in Kazakhstan is similar. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights, to which the owners of the “Criminals” had addressed, did not say his word. It may be that in the case of the relevant decision of this court required before Ukraine’s execution, we will not see the crazed money from the sale, but we will also compensate for the loss of it to the previous owners of the budget, that is, the common people. Is this option counted by authority, or is it ready? Desiring to help the government, the faction of “Ukraine’s Regions” made its proposals for a fair distribution of funds from the sale of “Cruvoristals”. This money belongs to the common people, and it is for the people to return it. In particular, we propose to channel the money “Croatstally” into pension payments, the return of savings to citizens in Savings. We look forward to supporting Parliament in these very important issues for our citizens. Analysing the fast sales situation of the “Crucials” faction of the Party of Regions states that there is no current clear and effective economic strategy for the development priorities of the Ukrainian economy. There is now no systematic approach to government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u107	Victor Gorbachev -- I can't see. Please, Vladimir Petrenko, Communist faction. Nadrava gives the word to the Holy One. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u108	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Sumska oblast. Address to President Yushchenko of Ukraine, Prime Minister Ehanurov, President of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. “We are outraged at the fact that the leaders of the State for 14 years do not wish to return their savings to the investors. This indicates the irresponsibility of power to the people. We have addressed the new Prime Minister and the President on this issue, but we have received the same receipts as the former President of Kuchma. You, Mr. President, on 12 November 2004, were still candidates for the Presidents of the Forces of the People coalition, and the President of the All-Ukrainian Union of Protected Investors of Ukraine signed a joint action agreement on the return of cash savings to investors. You have recognized your responsibility to the people and your conscience and that investors should not walk with outstretched hands but could receive their honest money. And now you, Mr President, say that “the rich will share with the poor”. But until we see the rich share with the poor. We propose: the first is to take immediate measures to return to Ukraine with the criminal resources of billions of dollars to work for the ordinary peoples of Ukraine, not the oligarchs. Second. Funding from the privatization of the personality to fully pay off the debt to the people for the payment of their savings. Third. Enter a special tax for the rich. Let them show by their example how to share with the poor. The shelled investors of Ukraine are now barely ending and dying. The pension, which had been increased, had not changed anything, since inflation and price increases had eaten up all these increases. For how long will this mockery of the people continue? We remember former ex-Prime Minister Victor Yushchenko bringing the prices of utility bills to the world. And now it raises them above the world. It seems that power does not control the situation in the country and has escaped the needs of the people. The President rejects all laws of the Supreme Council for the return of the people. We ask the President, the Prime Minister, to give us a concrete answer when our honest-earned money is returned? When will the economic base of the country work for the benefit of the people, be public property and not the property of the oligarchs? The children of war are among the plentiful investors. Why our Government does not consider it necessary to comply with the requirements of the Children of War Act. Is there not a penny allocated to the 2006 draft budget for this purpose? When will the bills for the return of savings, which have been drafted by the Special Commission of the Supreme Council, be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration? We, the looted investors, have been waiting 14 years for this decision, but patience is running out. The address was adopted at the general meeting of the surrounded investors in Suma. Please send this request to the President of Ukraine, Kabmin, the Supreme Council for action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u109	Michael the Holy, Kadenuk passed the word to Zarubinsky, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Michael the Holy, the Carpathians, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In Zakarpat, the police hide even those bullies who beat national MPs. And there was a lot of talk about that. In Uzhgorod, the police cover a group of hoodlums who, on Sunday, collided with the Passover on May 1, beat up four men along with their wives. By using tear gas, it paralysed the self - defense of festive citizens. A group of thugs beat them hard. One of them suffered minor bodily harm. To the second body injury of average gravity, and to the third one, his head was broken and he lost his mind for life, that is, he became a disabled person. The beginnings of this group of hoodlums were a major of the militia, who, in order not to sit on the bench of the defendants, came in haste to free him from work, so that this time he could be recovered from the ranks of the defendants during the investigation of the case number 1136505 victims were inclined to give evidence that the victims themselves had failed this hooliganism and therefore considered themselves guilty and asked to apply amnesty to them. Six months have passed, but those who have suffered these offers have been rejected by the police. The following Tordai Mikola, contrary to the testimony of the witnesses questioned, made a determination that the victims themselves had committed hooliganism, and that was why they were duly beaten. Complaints of the victim and concerns of their lawyer have been filed with the deputy prosecutor of the city of Uzhgrad, Mr. Cherničko, who worked as an investigator for the Uzhgrad Police Department until his appointment. Perhaps that is why these complaints and complaints remain unresponsive so that the police major in stock does not fall on the bench of the defendants with the intention of bringing this criminal case against the victims into court, which would apply the amnesty law to the victims. And the thing is to go to the archives, so a fellow police officer avoids being responsible for beating the person from whom she became disabled for life, and his wife and two children without a source of livelihood. I am making an official request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to give a proper assessment of these actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u111	Oleg Zarubinski. Next Vitali Majko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u112	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Oleg Zarabin Faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, I would like to take advantage of the possibility of a three-minute appeal to present a recently registered bill. Bill of National Deputies, members of the faction of the People's Party of Vladimir Lithuania. Its name is “To prevent discrimination against elderly and elderly people in Ukraine”. Dear friends, there are about 15 million pensioners living in Ukraine. Most of them are misdirected in national legislation, do not know their fundamental rights, do not know how to use legislative standards to protect their interests. Pensioners have a socio-psychological barrier in addressing government authorities on various issues, employers on employment issues, do not have mechanisms for judicial and judicial protection of their interests. The cost of legal services offered even legal advice, not to mention private legal and legal firms, is too high for a pensioner to turn to them for help. Ignorance of the legal provisions for the protection of the individual’s rights and freedoms and, accordingly, failure to protect his or her interests leads to violations of the rights and freedoms of the elderly. In view of their psychological characteristics, the level of material security, legal knowledge, economics, and pensioners are subject to discrimination by public authorities, employers, and individuals. In view of the number of elderly people in need of protection and assistance, various free legal services programs are ineffective. This should be about prevention, eliminating the cause of the problem, not combating the consequences. The bill introduced by me, Deputy Nadrag, Deputy Sherschun — members of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party — was initiated by the All-Ukrainian Social Organization of the All-Ukrainian Association of Pensioners. Its necessity, by the way, is based on the need for disclosure of the content and implementation of article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. There can be no privileges or limitations on the basis of race and color, political and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social background, property, place of residence, language, or other characteristics regarding the elderly. By purpose. I would like to say that the adoption of this bill, I hope that we are supported by our colleagues, will be the first step in creating an effective, all-U.S., I stress, an all-U.S. law enforcement system, monitoring for the protection of the rights of older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u113	Hello, Mother. Next up is Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u114	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, faction of the “Political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine”. Following the decision to abolish the tax regime in the areas of priority development with a special investment regime among investors who were already ready to implement Ukraine’s economic-friendly investment processes, they moved to making suitcases. As a result of the collapse of the investment climate, the image of the state was catastrophic. In view of the above, let me give you an example. Thus, in the areas of priority development in the Volin region, a special regime of investment activities that in Novovolinsk is halting investments totalling 94.4 million dollars. Of these, 19 million are foreign. Accordingly, 1,325 jobs are eliminated. The total budget loss is 13.6 million a year. At the same time, the courts received 63 lawsuits of 128 million dollars. The PPE faction points out that for Novovolinska, where six fossils are closed, it releases about a thousand workers, creates a critical situation, and the establishment of priority development areas is almost the only hope of survival. As a result, the city of Novovolinsk and the village of Zovneve has already become a depressed region. The massive reduction of jobs in enterprises, TPR entities, and construction workers working to rebuild production facilities will lead to socio-economic stability in the city. According to the local council, a similar number of new jobs cost 15 million dollars. Calling the courts for the execution of the Novovolin City Council, which is the only party to the contract, the investment contract, will block the executive committee's accounts, and from this is predicted the poverty of the population due to the non-payment of salaries to budget workers, health workers, educators, cultural workers, utilities, and so on. The PPA faction calls on the Government of Ukraine to contribute to the restoration of the VOLIN region's preferential development tax regime with a special investment regime for the Novovolinsk city industry, which will allow for the stabilization of the investment climate in the Volin region and the preservation of jobs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u115	John Boki, behind him Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u116	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In Ukraine, an event became unheard of for European civilised judicial practice. The Central Election Commission refused to execute the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court of Ukraine and did not register Mikola Melnicken as a candidate for the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Socialist Party. Thus, the central authority of the Central Election has put Ukraine’s international condemnation and mockery as a state and has excluded it from the circle of European legal states, exposed serious international sanctions and the distrust of the world community. The reasons for this decision are clear to the Centre. Some of the state’s chiefs, the shortcomings of the kushmow regime as a fire, fear the appearance of Mikola Melnicken in Ukraine and still as a national deputy, since he is more than an authoritative accuser and a witness to their thefts at the very top of the state government. However, international and national rights on the side of the opal major. And this is convincingly proved by his case both in the European Court of Human Rights and in the highest court of our state. Therefore, it seems more odd that the UK’s solidarity with those who act against the law against the rules, finally against the dignity of man and citizen, with those who have ruined the economy of Ukraine, has led to moral degradation, has committed horrendous crimes in the name of preserving its bloody regime, and whose unworthy, civilized society has been recorded by Mikola Melnick. The Central Electoral Commission's decision to refuse the registration of Mikola Melnicken must certainly be overturned by the Supreme Court as a challenge to Ukraine's right and European choice. We demand that the President of Ukraine act as an effective guarantor of both the constitutional right of Mikola Melnicken to be the subject of electoral law and the continued fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations, particularly before the Council of Europe of the legal principles on which Ukraine has become subject of international law in the European Court of Human Rights. And some of the statements here were about what the Socialist Party reported on the facts of forced entry into the National Party of Ukraine, I just want to name the addresses -- this is, please, at the Kharkiv Massive in Kiev School No. 296, where the school director forces teachers to join the People's Party as in the previous elections to support “To Yed”. That is to say, once again, that the People's Party is an heiress of the kuchmow "joint". And here you are, as they say, not getting rid of it. Well, actually, there's a lot of such facts, if we have to, we'll give them a hint. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u117	Paul Silent. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u118	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party First, a statement and an address to all present here and outside the session room. November 9 is the next day of Ukrainian writing and language and the All-Ukrainian Society Prosvita invites all 9 November to the House of Officers for an 18-hour art event. Over the centuries, foreign elites have imposed various principles and principles on Ukraine, its regions. So we've entered the independence phase with different goals and views based on regional, cultural, ideological and linguistic lines of division. In the absence of real democratic institutions of government and social co-operation and low population capacity for self-organization and lack of common systemic national values, political forces are able to conduct administrative methods through the will of isolated groups of citizens, using language and ethnic friction as a means of obtaining political capital. But the lives of the people are not limited by the firm beliefs of the Ukrainian People’s Party and our platform. There is a much broader foundation for the community: our spiritual and moral heritage, our culture, and our language. Let us look to European experience. He is so often referred to by different politicians. André Malro, Minister of Culture of the Presidency of Charles de Gaulle, stated: “The goal of any culture is to preserve, enrich and transform the ideal image without harming it.” Culture, language has always united the Ukrainian nation around the ideals of patriotism, freedom, equality, and solidarity. This preserved France’s high identity. Her word has become strong in a globalized world. Similarly, the high Ukrainian culture and language helped our people to survive in the most difficult times of trials. Its light led the Ukrainian people to statehood. The language is able to group us into a modern political nation. The task of the state is to preserve and multiply our great heritage, to support and preserve the building of the foundation of our unity on the language soil. Only by accepting the values, the culture, the language, can one understand the sharing of one’s destiny with one’s country and nation. Only language and culture can form the humanitarian aura mentioned by Lena Kostenko. And I'm surprised at the last assignments that took place in the information field when a person who doesn't speak the national language heads the National Public Channel. And in this regard, I want to say that these things are unacceptable. Every civil servant is primarily obliged to speak the national language. And that's why I'm asking the President to review his principles of government formation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u119	Vladimir Yavorowski. I can't see Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u120	Vladimir of Jabor, Jabor, Zovva, Novoyavorysk, Dubljana and 192 villages in my district. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues and respected radio listeners! I ask you to consider my request to the Attorney General and to the head of our Cabinet of Ministers. It's actually not even a question -- if you want, it's a cry, it's a scream. It's very bad when they steal a wallet in the basement of a market or in a tram. It's very bad when they steal land at the border. It's very bad when millions are stolen from the national budget. It's very bad when they steal huge metal giants from the people's property. It is very bad when his right to freedom of speech is stolen from the people. But the worst part is that people today want to steal his memory, and in fact, they steal it. And this is done by the highest officials, the highest factors of government, whatever the former government, but all the same. Once again, I want to draw attention to what's going on in the Lviv archive. My colleagues have often asked questions about this. There's absolutely nothing going on. So far no document names have been given to Interpol, and they're already abroad and will be sold. These are amazing documents of our history that no one can ever restore again. There's some Mrs. Peltz who runs this Lviv archive. Under her direction, all of this was stolen. At the request of the moral authorities of the nation -- I can list them for you -- literally listen to who's asking and addressing the President, once again, these are the moral authorities of the Ukrainian nation: Mikola Bebelz, Doctor of Architecture; Boris Woznitski, Hero of Ukraine, academic, legendary man; Jaroslav Dashkevich, Professor, Doctor of Historical Sciences; James Zaspasco, Doctor of Art; Mikola Ilnicki, outstanding literary scholar of Ukraine; Jaroslav Isajevic, academic. You see who is crying out to the world already, that “do something! Investigate the case! Stop everything that's happening today with our memory being stolen, I'm talking about it again. I'm addressing the Attorney General yesterday. You're fresh, you're on this stand where I'm standing, you swore you'd do anything you wanted, and you got over 300 votes here. Well, at least start with the small one, I understand that you may not be able to get your hands on Gongadze, on other things, until the same Yushchenk is poisoned. This is the biggest paradox that the President himself today, we don't know what happened to all this? Why do we not know to this day? Take it from here, Mr. Attorney General, even if it's a case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u121	Larissa Usachenko, please. Then there's Mikola Shershun. Rudkowski Dmitry gave it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, open and honest politics, the principle of the position of the People's President of the New Authority in Ukraine, our common goal is to build a new democratic and just society that guarantees a decent life for all the citizens of our country. A year ago in Maidan, we promised the Ukrainian people a better future. The first label to confirm the slogan “Not by word but by deed!” was the public report on the results of the fruitful work of the district council in front of the community, which took place in Cherkas on October 29 from the initiative of the Odessa District Public Administration of Czervko. On the occasion of the first anniversary of the citizens’ election in the first round of 2004, representatives of all districts and cities of the districts, political and social organizations took part in the celebrations. The governor reported that 25,500 had been created to deal with the problems and obstacles that had occurred in the nine - month area. new jobs. The real wages for January-August until the corresponding period last year increased by 18 percent, industrial production by 13.3 percent, agricultural production by 20 percent. It has been emphasized that the victory of the ideals of democracy, the free drive of people to freedom, justice, the ability to realize themselves and work, and in creativity, family well-being will guarantee Ukraine's promotion to the standards of the leading countries of Europe. So, creating the right conditions for efficient operation of enterprises, institutions, organizations, addressing social and economic emergencies, increasing people's wealth and combating poverty, the key positions of the people's government of Yashchenk. Now we can say for sure that we have our own national president, who has been recognized by the whole world, that power and people together are on the road to building a democratic state, a social society. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u123	Mikola Shershun, Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u124	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! Almost every day under the status of the Supreme Council there are peaks of black people who come here from despair because the authorities have changed, but the attitude of the high - ranking people to their problems remains unwavering. In a document distributed by the Union, Chernobyl, Ukraine, the situation of dealing with the problems of these people is described as a failure, a collapse, a rise in irresponsibility. The dispersal of Chernobyl issues on many matters is defined by Presidential Decree of 10 October practically puts the cross in place of our existing and active system of government in this area. Against the backdrop of funding cuts, this seems to be a deliberate folding of state social Chernobyl programs. I don't know who's pushing the President to sign such impeccable documents, but these people are undermining the President's authority. For example, in the Plains, for almost 20 years, the structure of effective assistance was built for the Chernobylites, and there was a professional management that never stopped the healing process of the injured, even in conditions of unethical funding. Now the transfer of these functions to Minprac is causing a number of problems. Because they don't have enough people in their structures, they don't have hardware, they don't have the experience of serving black people. Along with the centralization of healing powers. This has already led to the fact that, for the first time in years of independence, the number of healthy Chernobyls, for example, in Plains has reached a critical low point -- 4.8 percent of the need. And to the officials the law is unwritten as unwritten decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After all, in June we decided to transfer the functions of Chernobyl’s healing to the local authorities. And the State Budget project re-emphasizes the number five plugin, which provides for further centralization of recovery costs. In this regard, the People's Party faction proposes to remove the number five “Centralised Chernobyl recovery expenses” from the appendix and to transfer these powers to the premises, to prevent the dispersal of social services and to ask the President to repeal the above-mentioned decree of 1430. Reestablish work on rehabilitating polluted areas, providing for at least 150 million dollars a year. Article 71 of the Budget exclude paragraphs 17 and 18, which stop the benefits from utilities for veterans. To pay off 10 million wages to employees in the CHAES construction department back in 1997-1998. Increase funding for shelter, pensions, health care. Their fate stole their health. Let us not steal hope from them. Please consider this a formal request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Rephat Chubarov. Vitaly Corge gives the word, School, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to begin with the greeting of all the citizens of Ukraine who practice Islam, with the celebration of Uraza-Bayram. Indeed, Ukraine is a multiethnic and multireligious country. That is why we must not only ensure that the constitutional requirements in the field of human rights are met perfectly, but not assume any mistakes because of the inexperience or incompetence of officials or politicians. In recent days, I have received many appeals from the parents of the Crimean Tatar students about the introduction of religious teaching elements in the Crimea secondary schools without the consent of the parents. No one asks parents whose religion they are themselves, or their children, whether they want them at all to be teaching the basics of religion in secular schools. I demand that the Ministry of Education send a special working group to Ukraine to study the human rights situation in Crimea schools and, in particular, to uphold the rights to freedom of religion or not to practice any religion. Another story, day after day through all the channels of Ukraine, was a story about the burial of the remains of Soviet soldiers who died on Zaporozhye land in the years of World War II. The burial took place in the presence of the Defence Minister and the head of the Zaporozhye District Administration. In fact, a highly noble action, at last, 60 years after the end of the war, rests of the soldiers. But once again, religious rituals were carried out in mourning only with the invitation of a priest who represented only one of the beliefs of Ukraine. Well, you could say that you forgot to invite others. Why, then, do only one religion put symbols on each of those graves? More than 260 soldiers were said to be everywhere. The ones they buried, they're unknown. So there could be Uzbeks, Tajiks, Crimean Tatars, people of different religions. I would just like us to stop propagating such uncultivities, and so incomprehensible to our past history, and to the people of today. And I'm tired of talking from this rostrum about bringing people into Ukrainian society through Russian pseudo-patriotic shows and combators that broadcast on separate channels all the time, they'll hear suspicions, fear, hatred of people of another culture, another religion. I understand that because of such films, the Russian government, Russian politicians solve their problems, such as the justification for the war in Chechnya. But why should we print and broadcast such films and bring feelings, aggression into a tolerant Ukrainian society? I would like to pay attention to the need for compliance by this statement of my own, on this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u127	Andrew Schlell. Next, Zara Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u128	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. I wanted to remind you that next week will be the 7th of November. And it's basically already being erased from the calendars as the weekend, but nevertheless, there's going to be requests for different shares scheduled for November 6th and 7th. I think it's going to be a time of provocation. Unlike those who really celebrate this festival or consider it a holiday, there may be people there who, using television cameras, will once again demonstrate their erased symbols, their erased faces, and thus draw attention to themselves. I would urge all the relevant structures, all the appropriate forces to remember that it will also be the image of the state, and all those who want to participate in it, at least as viewers or even participants, think about it: it's not worth it, it's not really worth drawing attention to that date for once, no, therefore, to attract attention to Ukraine in such a negative world, because ideal conflicts are one thing, but when it turns into something like that after winning a favorite team at the stadium, it's another thing. I would also like to point out that there is a sufficient problem in Ukraine now and today to celebrate our Ukrainian festivals. One day it went completely unnoticed on November 1st, and somehow all those few national holidays that are quickly forgotten go unnoticed. Similarly, promises are quickly forgotten, just as no one is surprised that Ukraine has the only one, one edition of the daily Ukrainian edition is “Ukraine Young”. No more non - branched edition of the Ukrainian edition is published in English alone. It's also a question. The question is that all foreign publications coming here also come out in Russian. Recently, the founder of the magazine “Bourda, ” a woman born in Ternopilska, all its publications are published in its own Russian language. I think it would be normal for the President of Ukraine to invite even foreign publishers, at least this American who publishes the magazine Correspondent, and ask, do you think my people are so stupid that they don't understand their own language? Well, boy, either you give it up in English, or you give it up in national language, or you don't give it up at all. And that's a very logical question. It's just that we're in some kind of incomprehensible state right now. Yeah, we get it, we're fine. But why do those who come out into our country not respect our laws? Well, actually, because we don't have any respect. But there is a law to at least make them respect those who come here, using Ukraine to increase their popularity, capital, to make some money. So let them respect our customs, our culture, our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u129	Zara Katusheva. Verni Dubov handed the word to Orzhachov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u130	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. I wish to address the entire people of Ukraine. One of the greatest festivals of the Soviet era is approaching, the celebration of the Great October. In 1917, our multinational people were able to overthrow the yoke of exploiters and build the world's first working-Christian State, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a large country. Regrettably, this has been the last 15 years on the path of degradation and spiritual degradation. According to statistics for years of independence, there are more suicides per year in Ukraine than the Soviet Army has lost in all years of fighting in Afghanistan. The population of Ukraine has decreased by more than five million. I'm sure the last 15 years have taught the people something. Better yet, socialism or capitalism, strong faith, or foolish hope. It is time to take action against those who have led the country to a state where most people are in unprecedented poverty and humiliation. At a time when a puddle is imaginably enriched by the plunder of national wealth created by the labor of many generations of our fathers and grandfathers. We have excellent experience with you – 1917, 1941, 1945. We have always won with you, irrespective of the color of the skin and the cutting of the eyes in the fight against evil, only if they were a united Soviet people. There is no force that could break the monolithic international people. We'll win with you now if we're together. We have to believe in ourselves and say, make the right choice in March 2006. There is a force in the country that can break the backs of crime and nationalists. You have the opportunity to make sure that only the Communist faction fights for each paragraph of its pre-election promises. But don't let them fool you again. Only real communists, without any additions of es-, o-, te-, only communists under Simonenko's leadership can restore freedom, democracy and Fatherhood. Today, I would like to address the people of Ukraine. We, the Communists, invite you to participate in a celebration on 7 November, which will take place both in the city of Kiev and in all the regional centres under red flags. I especially want to address the Kievlians. In the media, information on the ongoing provocation by nationalists is disseminated. We, the Communists, urge you to come to the demonstration and not allow nationalists to settle the Sabbath. Our common enemy with you is President Yushchenko's regime, which we have the opportunity to overthrow in March 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u131	Anatoly Orzhachowski, next John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u132	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian company. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of his speech, I would like to welcome the Hersonian Liberation Soldiers, such as Calancetsky, Chaplinsky, Skadowski, Tsurupinsky and other areas with years of liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. Unfortunately, today’s executive power in the hands of Mr. Yushchenko does not always do well to the true veterans of war, but tries to rehabilitate the partners of fascism. Therefore, the confirmation is the events of October 15, when the conflict between the Soviets and the UN UPA troops was provoked. My position in the southern region has shown that events in Kiev are viewed by veterans as an insult. They are outraged by the actions of the authorities, right - hand politicians, who are trying to stage a show in the capital’s main square. History reminds us that pseudoheroes of the Nuremberg Process gave the Fascism’s lieutenants a fair assessment. It is said that Yushchenko’s regime is anti - national and corrupt, which does not respect the Constitution, the people of the country. Hersonian veterans demand that MPs and authorities not allow the same memory to be allowed during the celebration of the unjustifiably excluded holiday date calendar of the 88th anniversary of the Great October. The second problem discussed in Tavrian villages and cities, especially among officials, is information about the intentions of moving orange activists from Western Ukraine to the South, as it says: “All secrets become manifest in time”. Perhaps in this way the leaders of the State are trying to use the US State Department’s $60 million in education to the people of the South and East Ukraine by imposing the values of the orange Sabbath. I'll tell you what, with the Herson International and its inhabitants, the experiment will not go through. Most Hersonians view the present - day authority as lies, irresponsible, low - professional, and temporary. For good reason, in 2005, 220 farms were due to the inaction of power. The peasant's abandonment alone and with production difficulties stopped their activity. True, we have the richest lands, and a cubic meter of black earth is still stored in the capital city of France as a reference, and we are living through bread, meat, and price crises. We had the most powerful industrial potential in the countries of the former Union. Today, we are unable to release a decent car, a sufficient number of the country's Slavotic combine. The same is true of the fact that Ukraine is building wild capitalism. What about our president? He seems to have fallen asleep in his wheelchair and is sleeping with the state. This position in the western world has not yet been known to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u133	Ivan the hare. Sinchenko gave the word to Tarano.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u134	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Respectable citizens! The Ukrainian National Party is concerned about the rise of anti - Ukrainian rhetoric and anti - Ukrainian activity. You've just heard the undeserving talk here about the Ukrainian-Insurgency Army talking about the leaders of the state. The thing is, you have nothing to fear, the venerable left provocations of November 7 or 8, because there were never any such provocations on the left side of the right side of the patriotic forces. When it comes to provocations on October 15, everyone knows exactly what flags these provocations were made under. It's under what's right here in the hall, under Russian flags and a lot of others. So look for provocations among your ranks. That's the first one. The other one. I would like us to understand that Ukraine today is not isolated from the world, and Ukraine's chances will only be when we enter the world economic system, when we can defend our interests when we have our powerful economy. And instead of getting ready to join the WTO, we want to block this process and put Ukraine into dependence on other states. Likewise, I do not understand the position of those who voted a few days ago for the Ukrainian aviation not to be used by NATO structures, i.e. against the memorandum. People, on the one hand, want us to have high technology to develop, automobiles to develop, and on the other hand, they cut through the decisions of the Supreme Council. Dear friends, Ukraine will be a member of the European Union. Ukraine will be a member of NATO, for it is these organizations that unite democratic states. These organizations have united nations that for 50 years have not fought among themselves, where people live very much, and where the law is respected. I understand why the oligarchs don't want to join the European Union or NATO, because they know they're going to have to enforce the laws, which means that you're 90 copies of the bracelet they're taking from the people today, they're going to have to pay the people a salary. So they don't want it, that's understandable. But why they don't want a left or why they don't want a Social Democrats, I don't understand it. [[United]] I also do not understand why the left and the oligarchs were involved today. do not support the destruction of this differentiation in the social security of citizens today. They still want 2 percent to have hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay, and they want 300 dollars to be paid. And, Adam Ivanovich, if you answer me, I'll tell you, you give up your salary, not me, because you understand perfectly that even if I refuse, the law will work. So I urge you to change the law, not the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u135	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I have a lot less money than you do, because I'm giving a lot of wages to the workers. Please, Taran Victor. Sass gives the word to Narazhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u136	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed the holding of parliamentary hearings on the legislative and legal settlement of the problems of Ukrainians forcibly displaced from Poland to Ukraine in 1944-1946 and 1951. This issue has already been violated by the Kosovo People's Deputy today. It is said that during these years hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians were forcibly evicted from their lands where they lived for centuries: , Holmščina, Lemkowščina, they were deported to the Soviet Ukraine. And now that half a century has passed since those tragic events in an already independent Ukraine, there has not been a proper political and legal assessment of this beastly act of forced eviction. In the meantime, these limitlessly injured people demand, send thousands of single - demand letters to the Supreme Council and may, with a single request, ask them to at least listen, listen. I mean, it's about holding parliamentary hearings from their painful problems. And hearings are needed in order to make the necessary decisions as a result of these hearings. To make decisions such as granting these people deportation status as a comparison of their status to the status of war participants. They demand a decision on the simplified crossing of the border with Poland so that they can go and visit their homes, visit their parents ’ graves, but they do not even want to listen to them in Parliament. Three times, during 2003, 2004, 2005, Julia Timoshenko, who was still a deputy, deputy Belarus, Turkinov, when he was a deputy, introduced a project to hold parliamentary hearings about deported Ukrainians, and three times our parliament refused to listen to them. This question was rejected. And I'm not surprised that the Communists took that position. They don't want to hear about the beastly actions of their predecessors, they don't want to hear the truth about the Ukrainian rebel army, they don't want to hear the real Ukrainian history, because the real Ukrainian story -- this is the cornerstone on which the independent, truly free state of Ukraine, which, indeed -- this is where the parliament of the Hare was right -- is supposed to be a member of NATO, a member of the European community. They don't need it. But I'm surprised, I'm outraged at the position of the Ukrainian People's Party -- we're projecting to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin -- who didn't vote yesterday to listen to these people, while there are thousands, hundreds of thousands of these people living in the villages of Volina. We will continue to stand up for our stand. These people need to be heard, we need to hold parliamentary hearings. These people need to be made equal citizens, not equal citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u137	Basil Nadrag. The next one, the Polite gave the word to Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u138	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I would like to address one topic. We have a state of wealth in our population that is truly perplexed: how our people, in an absolute majority, more than 90 per cent of the population, survive in our circumstances at all. And here, on the one hand, the State seems to declare that it is ready to support these people, and in fact, it is constantly mocking them. Well, let me give you an example. According to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 27.07 1998 under number 1156, the procedure for charging subsidies for utilities was established. All things seem to be right: people are allowed to pay no more than 15 per cent of the total income of the family. But the issue is that the Supreme Council, when it adopted its decision in March 1999 at number 512, found that it should be 50 per cent of the amount of money that the family generally receives. The Cabinet of Ministers has decided that this is tax-free. That is to say, we are in fact beginning to consider a situation where, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, people with ephemeral amounts cannot receive subsidies because that amount of income also takes into account taxes that people do not actually receive. On that basis, therefore, a corresponding request was sent to my MP in March 2005. Regrettably, the reply received under the signature of the then First Deputy Prime Minister, Kinah, that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance have been entrusted with providing clarifications to the services that provide subsidies on this issue, and therefore this issue must be resolved, and people will only consider what they receive, not what is supposed to be credited to them in some way. Regrettably, apart from the promise that the issue would be resolved, he did not move forward. And the question is not yet resolved. This also needs to be addressed in the 2006 budget, and most importantly, the question is that people have the right to have relations with the State only in part with the money, in part with the money they receive, and not with those who are supposed to be passing through. Based on this logic, I believe that Kabmin needs to address this issue, which concerns almost 90 per cent of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u139	Mikola Komar. And behind him is the Lion of Deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u140	Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine. Dear Chief, distinguished voters! The Ukrainian Party faction notes that the country's governance model in force today is solely central to the interests of central government, inefficient, prone to corruption and unable to provide sufficient living standards for our citizens. The current scheme gives unwarranted and self - centered advantages to the central authority at the expense of local self - government. First of all, the situation can be rectified by a profound reform of regional policy. The faction of the "Regions" party states that after the election to the councils of all levels in March 2006, there should be a change in the principles of the system of power in Ukraine. This process should be based on a thorough analysis of the existing state of things. We are convinced that strengthening, first of all, in the financial framework of local self-government is the main challenge for Ukraine today. When we find the answer to that question, we will reorient the power to transfer powers from the center to the regions that will make it easier to solve the problems of a simple person. Only then will the official apparatus begin to perform the functions that the sole bearer of state authority is the Ukrainian people. Strengthening its material, technical and financial base should play a key role in expanding the rights of local self-government. The changes to tax and budgetary legislation must be adopted immediately, and the sources of income formation of local budgets should be expanded. The “Regions” faction invites the President of Ukraine to hold meetings of the National Council on State Building, Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Without discussion among national MPs, representatives of regional elites and local self-government, as well as experts to force administrative and territorial reform, there is no point. Such adventurous attempts, we recall, have recently faced decisive opposition from the local communities themselves. The faction “Ukraine” strongly opposes attempts to reform the way in which territories exist by way of an adventurous cavalry jump. You're going to rush this thing. You're not going to make people laugh. You're going to piss them off. Infuriated with experiments of today’s civil authority, he will give full thanks to the experimenters in the near elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Lew Glukhowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u142	Lew Glukhovsky, Faction of the People’s Movement. Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow national deputies, it has been more than two weeks since we have heard the leaders of the force structures about the events of October 15th in Krestatika, but we still have no information on the results of the investigation. The People's Movement faction believes that UPA veterans have the legal and moral right to go on the Crusade and celebrate the 63rd anniversary of the creation of the UPA. And the hooligan actions of left-wing forces, communists and progressive-aggressive windmills, who in rude and offensive form ripped this celebration apart and played against the elderly, the UPA veterans, threw eggs at them, and the various objects are a criminal crime. The citizens of Ukraine, who voted in favour of independence on 1 December 1991, should be grateful to the UPA and its veterans, who are still among us today, for the fact that UPA fought with all the aggressors and did not allow the communist-encavedic forces to extinguish the independent idea. For handing it over as an estaphet baton to her followers in the sixtie ’ s, which eventually led to the century of the expected celebration of the formation of the Ukrainian independent state in 1991. And so on October 15, the left - handed forces that, by the way, were standing there under the Russian tricolour and thus reaffirmed their belongings to the fifth column should be condemned by our society. Their pathological hatred for UPA veterans is the hatred of the followers of those who have destroyed the Ukrainian people with famines, gunshots, deportations, it is an expression of their insurmountable rage that they have not been able to prevent the formation of the Ukrainian independent state, which they have always wanted to see only in the colony of the Russian Empire. The only thing they can do today is frame and line up the U.P.A.'s dirt, spread the idea of allegedly carrying out UPA terrorist acts against the civilian population. This is no longer believed by anyone, because the truth is that this is evidenced by a study of the archives that these civilian victims were mainly the result of the provocative activity of the NCCD, which formed forged UPA special forces. NKVD heads were taught Ukrainian with a Galician accent and were thrown into the area where the real UPA was operating. There they massacred civilians, and party and state propaganda attributed it to the UPA, hoping to deprive the population of their support. It was sad to hear on October 15 these accusations against the very few U.P.A. soldiers who were able to make it to Krestlety. They chose the independence of Ukraine that we have today, and they fought the armed struggle under the blue and yellow flag and the coat of arms, which are now state-owned, and the anthem that inspired them to fight -- "Not yet dead Ukraine" -- today is the State Hymn of Ukraine. The People's Movement faction is convinced that the UPA will certainly not be a state level recognized as a fighter for national liberation as not by parliament, but by the President, as it is now, after the March elections. Please consider this as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the BSS not to delay the investigation of the events of October 15th on Hristetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-04-m0.u143	Let's get this over with. All who wanted to speak had the opportunity to do so. I would like to remind you that on November 8th, at the morning session, we are going to be holding the Government's Day on the current state of affairs and prospects for the development of insurance services in Ukraine, 9-11, we will be working on committees, factions and parliamentary groups, and the next plenary meeting will begin at 10 p.m. on November 15th. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
