ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:40]] A total of 426 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies, Anatoly Ivanovich and Safiulín Ravil Safovich, who were 50 years old. Let us welcome him and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session of February 3, 2005. 23 issues of the agenda have been addressed, including 14 bills and 11 draft regulations. As a result of the discussion: Seven laws have been passed, one bill has been adopted as a basis, i.e. in the first reading, one bill is aimed at redrafting, two bills have been rejected, nine decrees have been adopted and one draft decree rejected, four issues have been postponed. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliyovich, from the composition of the MP's Faction of the SDPU(o). In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies Klimenko Klimenko Anatolia Volodymirovich and Sergei Leonid Grigorovitch as part of the Socialist Party's parliamentary faction. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I declare that the leaders of the MP group "The Will of the People" is Long Stanislav Alexiyovich and Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich. The group's authorised representatives are Long Stanislav, Onichuk Mikola, Burjak Sergey, Gureyev Vasil Mikolajovich, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, Vretennikov Viktor Alexanderovich, Majko Vitali Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to make it clear before this announcement that we do not have such positions, even on the public guidelines for the leaders of MP groups and factions, are authorized, authorized persons. Yes, the honourable national deputies, the consideration of giving consent to the appointment of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko as Prime Minister of Ukraine will begin at 12 o'clock if you have no objection. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if you have a wish, let's vote now. No questions asked. Dear national deputies, according to Friday’s Rules, we have 30 minutes to make statements by national deputies with statements, reports, information, and queries. I ask the distinguished national MPs to sign up for the performance, and in the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: MICILI KULCHINSKI TO THE President of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place in Poltava around the city’s election. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:09:14]] For-140. Request not supported. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine for the recognition of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgency Army as a belligerent in World War II. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:45]] For-125 Request not supported. Victor GORBAČOVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the termination of the contract for the sale of a shareholding package by the state-owned holding company “Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant” in connection with the failure of the Open Shareholder Society “Mikolaiwiska Small-Tonnesty Shipyard” to perform contractual obligations. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:23]] For-89 Request not supported. Ms. KIORIAN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on personal involvement in the consideration of the situation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the issuance of a ballot card for the national deputy, Sergio Kiroyantz, to another MP. John BOKHO to the Acting Prime Minister, the Kiev City Head for ignoring the Kiev City Administration’s parliamentary appeal and the parliamentary request. Vladimir ZUBANOVa to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund, on the invocation of the responsibility of public officials responsible for delaying decisions on the problems that have arisen around the open shareholder company Silur of the city of Hartzizk Donetsk. Jury CARMAZINA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Education and Science, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the groundless definition of being unfit for living at the Odessa College of Standardization, Metrology and Certification and for not allowing his premises to be rented to private educational institutions. Sergia Soboljeva under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister to try to destabilize the work of the Open Shareholder Society “Krimenergo” by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the National Shareholder Company “Ukrainian Energy Company”. VICTOR DIVORCE to the prime minister’s executive responsibility to allocate funds for the completion of the construction of the military town’s district of Lake Zitomir. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, on the actions of an organized criminal group, created by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers for the laundering of state funds in the sum of more than 2 billion dollars through a number of offshore foreign and domestic firms, including “Planeta-Mist”, “Dnipro-Mist”, “Conspiracy project”, “Bion”, “Dogus”, “Djijem”, “Bauer LTD”, in the construction of the railway and road bridge crossing through the Dnipro River in Kiev. Vasil ZUSKA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the State Property Fund on the rightfulness of the election and the actions of the new management of the “Orion Machine Production Association”. SERGEANT CHICHANOVA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to violate the Cabinet of Ministers of Actual Law in the removal of land on the lands of Sevastopol State Forestry. Mr Vladimír LÄCHENKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to comply with the current legislation on the budgeting of the city of Stors Chernigiv region. Groups of National Deputies to the executive duty of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council to try to bring the State Department of Defence’s “Sevastopol Automotive Repair Plant” to a stable financial failure and bankruptcy, groundless decomposition and occupation by manufacturing facilities in the city centre. [[CARMAZIN, ATROSHENKO, ARTHEMENKO, AND OTHERS]] Alexander HUDIMI to the Acting Prime Minister’s duty to suspend the implementation of the Ministry of Defence’s assets. RAISES OF THE ASSISTANCE OF THE prime minister, the Attorney-General, for the closure of the First-Major City Anti-Tuberculus Dispensor of the Mikolai region. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA, acting as Prime Minister for failure by the State Committee of the State Material Reserve of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the town of Grebinka Poltavian district of the fecal water pumping station. Victor GORBAČOVA under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund, the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation for the Dismantling of the Purchase-Sales Agreement by the state-owned stockholding company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant in connection with the failure to implement the Open Shareholder Society, Mikolaiyevska Small-Tonnes Shipyard. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, on the financial security of the authorities of the local self-government of the Herson region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to serve as Prime Minister, Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund for the illegal alienation of State property in favour of the closed-circuit airline Airworld in the Borispol Airport. Gennady RUDENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for systematic violations of legislation by the Director of the State Specialised Art School of the University of Art in Opišna, a village of the city type Opišna Zynkowski district of Poltavian Region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Acting Prime Minister on the problems of socio-economic development of a village of Lazarne Skadovian district in the Herson region. The Valery of SAMPLAV AND MICHALI SHERSHUN to the Cabinet of Ministers on the threat of the isolation of the Plain area from the information space of Ukraine because of the emergency of the radiotelevision mast in the Revenge. Ms. Alexander KOSJANENKA to the Attorney-General for improper investigation and deliberate delay by the Attorney-General of the Autonomous Republic of Crime on the basis of a traffic accident that took place at the hands of a law enforcement officer. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the State Property Fund in connection with corruption and abuse of office related to events surrounding the Open Shareholder Society “Clean Metals”. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminalization of officials of the Demodivian District State Administration and its former head for the abuse of office and suicide of the resident of the village of Bilce Demidiv district of the Plain region of the Ukrainian People's Party, Yuri Hubenko. [[RED, HULLINIAN, WIDE]] Leonidas SERGEANT to the Attorney General on the facts of the inactivity of the Security Service. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General on the illegality of the actions of the workers of the Obolon District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev and the State Parliament of the Ukraine regarding a limited liability association “Europak”, which has led to the closure of the business. Mr. Anatolya Moroza to the Attorney-General on the misconduct of the Head of the Yakimiv District State Administration of the Zaporozhi Region in addressing the land degradation issues of the former Michurin KSP. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Attorney General for the actions of the internal affairs authorities and the procurator of the Novotroitsky district of Hersonian district in the case of citizen Vadim Yakovlev. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI to the Attorney General about the attempt to sell a stable sugar plant in the village of Vladivka in the Latin region of Winnitsk. John STATION to the Attorney General on the illegal use of the Linging Company “FoodInvest” shares of the Open Share Company “Ternopil Combin Factory”. Anatolya MOROZA to the Attorney General for fraud management of the company. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Attorney General for violating the rights of landowners of a closed “East” stock company in the Odessa region. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service to verify that there are signs of a violation of article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution in the activities of the Lviv District Council. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Attorney General for the purpose of verifying the illegal involvement of some national deputies in the activities of the All - Ukrainian Automobile Association. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the activities of the Dolin village head of Terebovlja region and the director of the local private agrarian enterprise “Division-Agro”. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Attorney General on the verification and investigation of financial fraud and the theft of state funds by the State Reserve of Ukraine. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on taking urgent action to stop the brutal violation by the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Department of Internal Affairs in the Zitomir area of constitutional right to entrepreneurship by unlawfully persecuting officials of the private enterprise “Lana” for appealing to the National MP. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General on the violation by individual airlines of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case for not paying rent for rented premises of the Open Association “Bilšík” with limited liability “Techenenergobud”. MICHELLA’S CHECK to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Industrial Policy, the Head of State Tax Administration on the misconduct of police officers and the suspicion of corruption in the conduct of a metallurgical operation in the city of Melitopolis of Zaporez. JOURIA SIRKA and SERGEY ALEXIUKA to the Attorney-General on the verification of the purposeless use of budget funds by the Ascension City Head. Anatolia DOMANSKO to the Attorney General for failure to use the Prosecutor’s Office in the area of Zitomir as an immediate measure to the officials of the Office of the State Executive Service of the Orutsky District Department of Justice regarding the enforcement of the court’s decision on debt collection. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the verification of the illegal financing of the Lviv district organization The National Movement of Ukraine and the Victor Yushchenk electoral campaign in Lviv, published in open sources of information. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General for bringing to justice the corruption of the deputy head of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting of Shevchenk. [[Rich, stingy, Sulkian, and others. Total 14 deputies]] Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of the inappropriate reaction by the Public Prosecutor of the South Ukrainian Mikolai district to the crime committed during the second round of the election of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney-General for the establishment of a workplace for the day of the murderer of a person as a result of his road accident in a village of the town-type Korop of the Chernigiv region. Vladimir JENKA to the Ministry of Defence for the maintenance of a military hospital in the city of Kremenchuk Poltavsk. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Fuel and Energy in connection with the heat supply of the village of the Red Army Red Army region. Bogdan GOUTH to the Foreign Minister, Head of the State Border Service, on the need for further verification of information regarding the presence of Ukrainian citizens among the victims and victims of the earthquake and tsunami in South East Asia. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on a situation that took place in a village of the townlike Kozin Obuhi district of Kiev. The wealthier Raises to the Ministry of Health on the coming and use of the Global AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Grant and World Bank loans to prevent the further spread of HIV/AIDS in Ukraine. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the inclusion of a citizen in the scientific internship as head of the scientific research team. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Head of the Administration of the State Border Service for the settlement of the transit of Ukrainian citizens through the territory of the Republic of Moldova through trains connecting Ukrainian settlements through Mamaliga, Larga, Kelmenci stations. Group of National Deputies (SHURMA, PROSCURATS, BONDARCHUK, etc.) to the Head of the Security Service to verify the legality of the actions of individual officials in the Kharkiv region. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the efficiency of the use of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Donetsk Machine Plant of the Petrovic Budget. Michael DOBKIN to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Council of Judges, the Head of the High Court of Commerce, the Head of the High Council of Justice for the illegal presence in the administrative positions of certain heads of courts and deputy judges. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the deterioration of the living conditions of House No.14 on the street of Pankovsky and House No. 70/16 on the street of the Saxagan city of Kiev in connection with the construction of the office apartment complex. Vassila ZUSKA to the Head of the All-Ukrainian Union of “The State” for providing information on the illegal activity of the resident of the city of Balgrad Odessa region during the elections of the city’s city head. JOURIA PAULENKA to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the formal response of the Head of Housing to a parliamentary appeal. Stepan HMARI to the head of the State Property Fund regarding the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Trade Union Council. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to stop the seizure of property and workplaces of a separate unit of the cargo and transportation department of the state-owned enterprise Donetskwogil. Groups of National Deputies to serve as Defence Minister for the Return of Military Field Lands to the Local Self-Government Authorities and the State Forestry Committee for the Restoration of Populations Destroyed by the Communist Regime, the Recycling of Lands and the Restoration of All Socio-Economic Infrastructure. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE AND OTHERS]] Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of smuggling of industrial goods through the Rava-Russia Customs into Ukraine. A total of 65 parliamentary inquiries were made by honourable colleagues. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 22, Communist faction - 11, "Regions of Ukraine" - 5, National Agrarian Party - 2, SDPU - 5, "Only Ukraine" - 4, SPO - 4, Block Timoshenko - 2, "Soyuz" - 2, Postfraction - 8. Dear colleagues, let us move on to the speeches of the national MPs with statements, information, messages and queries. Please state the names of the national MPs on the board. Yes, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag is transferring the right to speak to Sergey Kosinov. Please, the People's Agrarian Faction. 30 minutes. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u2	Kosinov, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, city of Kharkiv Dear colleagues, to be able to enforce legislation by individual central executive authorities is the same as to extract water from stones, otherwise it is not possible to appreciate the delay in granting tax travel to certain categories of students and students of CTU, as provided for by legislation. Please tell your peers how to explain to the student that when the state allocates funds for the purpose of its social support, this is not a declaration of good intentions, but a fact that, unfortunately, not every student can benefit from the legal right to pay. And the reason is completely banal: In no way do the respective officials arrange for the mandatory replacement of a student ticket to a plastic card or arrange for the work to be done. It is known that anyone who wants to do the work is looking for ways and making it, and whoever does not wants to, is looking for excuses for his inaction. However, it is difficult to wait for explanations of such inaction. On my request from the former Prime Minister, on October 5, 2004, only a formal letter was received. There is no room for indifference in this matter. Because it's not a secret: most of the students' youth, for the most important support, are the children of agrarians who get education far away from their homes. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, hoping for effective cooperation with the government, I stress that we cannot take along a new age of flaws and failures, such as the total disregard of the former government's social needs. The highest level of support for young people, especially students, is clearly the priority of the new government. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, referring to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, insists on the timely enforcement of the State's obligation to grant the benefit of travel to students and students for the implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decrees Nos. 541 and 1192 of these issues, since the right to pay half the cost of a ticket in urban and suburban passenger transport and inter-city road and rail transport in Ukraine is extended to all categories of students of the daily form of education in higher education institutions of I-IV levels of accreditation and students of vocational and technical educational institutions regardless of the form of ownership. Please consider this application a parliamentary request to the new government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u3	Yes, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko gives the right to speak to Gregory Bondarenko. Get ready, Gunnery. Ah, prepare for Vladimir Bondarenko. Excuse me, Vladimir Bondarenko. I missed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u4	Gregory Bodarenko, constituency 92, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The sessional week that passes has passed under the sign of Chernobyl. It's not an exaggeration, no. I'm calling the facts: Tuesday, the liquidators were taking care of the Supreme Council, and unfortunately no one met them except me and Rahansky. On that same day, Rahansky raised a number of questions from Parliament’s rostrum about the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. On Thursday, the Supreme Council adopted two decrees, both concerning the next Black Chernobyl Jubilee and the tasks to be decided. As I know, these questions also occurred at factions’ meetings with the Prime Minister’s candidate. These events indicate the great hardship that has taken place on the post - Chernobyl route, but as we do so, we will usually hear problems, and it is time to do so, otherwise the explosion will occur. Human, of course, but no less dangerous than technological. The catastrophicity of the situation is indicated by the figures: last year, 1 billion 300 million dollars were allocated to the Chernobyl needs of the country, and 15 dollars were allocated to the needs, and 200 million more were cut by the pitiful assimilations this year. Keep talking about nothing. For many reasons, this situation is called a one - in - a - row one - in - law. The Chernobyl Troubles are largely due to the fact that the former president, all of them. The government was beaten and eventually destroyed by the Chernobyl Ministry. Yesterday, Gennady Josephovich Udovenko was in trouble with Parliament over the international community’s coolness toward Chernobyl’s problems. And who's going to work with us when the Chernobyl issues are scattered across 20 ministries and departments, and the main focal points are only four. Immediately after the inauguration of Viktor Andriyovich, the next day I sent him a parliamentary address. It also refers to the state’s governing body on Chernobyl. On the basis of the committee's short-term declaration, we need to create an immediate, powerful, effective ministry. And the second. In correcting this year’s budget, Chernobyl costs need to be increased by between five and seven billion dollars. It means not only social needs but also the construction of shelter number two, the operation of the station. Please consider this statement a question to the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I think we're going to confirm it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u5	Vladimir Bondarenko. Get Tomenka ready instead of Gournik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u6	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, I think that each of us today realizes that the criticism that sounds from the parliamentary rostrum must be adequately taken into account by the public authorities, the prosecutor's office, the local authorities, including the authorities of self-government. I'd like to give an example of this, I'd say, perception, but really late, with regard to privatization, or land clearance of the reserve area of Kiev in Desert Water. I, Mikola Tomenko, and all the deputies elected in Kiev, addressed the Kiev City Head with an open letter to Kyivrada requesting the cancellation of the decision of Kyivrada, which relates to this consideration, two, three, and six hectares [6 ha] per hectare, of this land of great value. Sadly, the reaction was initially inadequate. Surprisingly, after the victory of the orange revolution -- before that, it was not surprising -- there came to our offices the co-workers of the KRA and other organs with some kind of lineless incomprehensible examination. Obviously, someone wanted to find some arguments in order to answer in the way that the authorities used to do. Later, some steps were also discovered. In Kyivradh, it was decided to create a commission to determine whether these lands were legally privatized or not. True, a commission of 12 made up of 6 people who received 1 or more hectares, and one person wrote 5 applications. Now they've created a commission to determine the rule of law. I want to say that today, obviously, Kyivrada will carry out her mission to protect the community, because in this multi-stage system of bribery, when Kuchma bribed representatives of the former majority of the land in Kiev, they took part in the parliament of Kyivrad in the vast majority of their majority. Only a few people have not written a statement. The leaders of the Kyiv regions are individual, government officials from the State Administration, including representatives of Alexander Alexander Omelchenka. And I would like to say that this undermines Kiyevrada's authority as an organ, a representative organ of the Chinese. Today, it is obvious that the main decisions will be overturned, but not all of them. As far as I know, it's not going to go away from a decision that concerns a large area of land that was given to the Kyiv footballers in Desert Vodice. I think Kiyevrada should also go back to the problems that we've been dealing with and after Conchi Zaspa, where there are the names of Azarov, Jaroshenko, Bilokon, and the decisions that were made in our time and also in Feofania. So if there's already a movement about the Desert Guide, there's no movement in Conchi Zaspa and in Feofania, and we have to do that, because Kiev has to keep those conservation zones that have served for all the Chinese for centuries. Concha-Spas, Desert-Vodica, Feofania are not ordinary land allocations that every human being can, in principle, have, and this is the acquisition of a Kyiv community that needs to be preserved for our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u7	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Lechchenka instead of Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u8	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am concerned about the serious, acute, principled debate that has unfolded on the issue of social injustice in relation to the two former presidents of Ukraine and today all the society and representatives of the opposition are actively helping the former President Leonid Kravczuk to bring these issues in order because it turns out that, unlike Leonid Kuchma, he did not get one cook and two waiters, as Kuchma did. For a week, society has been concerned with this serious problem. Moreover, Leonid Krawczuk had a “Volga” with a pierced bottom until 2004, and he only got a Mercedes in 2004. And of course, this is a very important problem for our country, but I would like all the journalists and politicians who are actively concerned about the social protection of Leonid Krawczuk and his poverty, which he lived in before 2004, to mention that in the last few months the government of Yanukovich and then Azarova directed the Ukrainian economy in such a way that we have, on some of the budget arrivals, 35 percent that we are at risk of implementing basic social programs, because the money has disappeared just as accidentally as the property and the land that my colleague Vladimir Bondarenko was talking about. I would like to see parliament, including functioning adequately, and we have not forgotten these previous months when real estate, property and money have left Ukraine, and today it is as if everyone has forgotten about and cared for social protection of people, and much of the budgetary revenues are already abroad. So I think it would be very important for us today to go back a little bit to what's called state property inventory and the government budget and not forget the funds that went missing. Because, you see, life continues in Ukraine. Renat Ahemtov buys footballers for $10 million, and that means that apparently we don't have a very safe life with the Donetsk Financial and Political Group, and Igor Surkiss is concerned that he can't sell the Ravencic Serb for 8 million euros, and they're offering only 3.5 million euros. So I'd like us to work with you and not think about how we helped Ahmet and Surkis to sell, and Kravczuk how to get a cook and two waitresses, and we thought about how to pay the Ukrainian people's pensions and wages and ensure those social standards. All the factions are talking about in this session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u9	Andrew Politt's right to speak is handed over to Vladimir Lechchenk, a faction of Communists. to prepare Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Leschchenko, Communist Party faction, Montenegro. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, the Qutsmian authorities in Ukraine are remembered by the destruction of the economy, the social sphere, and the spirituality. In addition, by mass renaissance of the streets, the destruction of Soviet monuments. What is he doing now, and what will be the outcome of today’s bourgeois rule? For days I received a letter from the city of Priluka in Chernigiv district, which I would like to introduce to you. In New Year’s Eve, in the central square of the city, the defilers decorated Lenin’s monument with orange ribbons, used in carnations. The city’s inhabitants quickly raised a wave of resentment and local authorities forced the hooligans to bring the monument into its original form. On January 21, Lenin's Day, accession, like all progressive mankind, placed flowers in the monument. With what hatred, overwhelming new ladies and dolls cried out dirty words to the adjectives gathered at the monument. But when we got a decent resistance, we got out of the way. They were second-born, apparently sitting at their parents' necks screaming, "Jushchenka, Yushchenka!" Well, to whom the nature of the mind has not given, it will not be added. Hatred, malice, and rods from fighters for capitalism and paradise life. They do not take pleasure in those who do not want to be slaves to the present order, even to the red, but to the capitalist authority, who are confident of permissiveness. Otherwise, to explain that, on another occasion, in the same central square, almost outside the windows of Goryspolkom, with the indulgence of the authorities, an anti-communist slogan was placed on the night of 22 to 23 January, while Lenin’s monument was placed on the front desks, and the nails were unclean. No response from the authorities. Impunity promotes permissiveness and adds courage. The following night, even more sophisticated threats emerged, only this time with specific, targeted and national Fascism mattresses. "Death to Satan, death to dogs, death to those who bear the flowers of Satan, death to drowning, to the cannibal and to those who are with him!" "Warning: the mind is mined, the death by force, for God has cursed the devil." Word well-known in history, isn't it? This is how the new power gave rise to another burst of anti-communism, national fascism and permissiveness. For to explain the Olympic tranquillity of the local authorities and the representatives of the force structures to such egregious facts, the fact is that in Priluki the physical killing of people became the norm until the killings. It's a disgrace to the authorities, and her loins continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u11	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u12	Mishur, the Communist faction. Please give Alexei Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u13	Please. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, on January 31, 2005, elections took place in the Republic of Iraq. Unfortunately, the efforts of the invaders of this country to present these elections as free and democratic have turned this country into a day of terror. The result of dozens of deaths and injuries. This is a new example of how the most powerful country in the world of the United States is once again trying to teach a people democracy in their hands. These elections confirmed once again that the claim that the situation in Iraq was allegedly stabilising was unfortunately not true. In this regard, I am asking the newly elected President Yushchenko what else is needed of the Supreme Council to resolve the issue of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian contingent from the Republic of Iraq. Is it not enough for the two decisions taken in this regard to resolve this knot? Perhaps the new authorities need adrenaline again when they need to meet the bodies of our countrymen again. In view of this situation, I remind all my colleagues and our voters that this should be one of the first decrees of the new President to withdraw our military contingent from Iraq. But during his tour of Europe, Mr. President. There have already been allegations that some consultations with allies should be held. A number of progressive social organizations of women’s, youth, and officers have made decisions that, given that the new authorities are delaying the decision and that there is a danger that the issue may not be resolved in the near future, a decision has been taken. And we turn to everyone who cares about the fate of our sons and brothers to participate in the action that these organizations are initiating. This action will take place in Kiev on February 21st at 11 o'clock, and the stockholders' meeting will begin at the Arsenal subway station. We address all those who care about the fate of our fellow countrymen, to take part in this action, whose main purpose will be the requirement for these members of the campaign to fulfil their pre-election promise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u15	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Melnichuku is told by Stephen Bulba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Melnichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u18	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television viewers. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is concerned about the situation in Ukraine’s agribusiness complex today. The threat is a major breakdown in the conduct of spring-field jobs. Today, more than 80 percent of businesses and farms, agricultural enterprises, and farmers have no fuel, no adequate plant protection, and no credit is available. Of course, this situation is disturbing our faction today, and our party organizations are in place. Similarly, we would like to draw attention to the fact that today, grain traders, business plots, are buying into peasant grains for no price again at 400-450 dollars per tonne of third grade food grain. At the same time, we know that there are more than 11 million State export applications. tons of grains. The situation is what we had in 2003, when the Socialist Party faction warned society that there was no food grain in the country. And yet the grain was exported abroad, and then we paid three, four times more abroad and brought food grain to Ukraine. This may be the case this year. I'd like to pay attention, dear friends, to another situation. This is the situation today with the meat resources of Ukraine. Meat - processing companies operate by 50 percent, and there is virtually no place to produce meat. At the time, there is a Colossus company on Chernobyl, where today there is a powerful technology for the production of pork meat. And they don't need much: they need state support. I would like to refer today from the parliamentary rostrum to the Prime Minister, who will be approved, to the new composition of the government that this enterprise must be supported, because we can only set up this technology in the Western region to work on pork production. And here's a phone call from the national deputy Stanislaw Nikolayenka of Hersonian, from the village of Chaplink. Turned off NAC "Gaz Ukraine" gas, left thousands of people without heat. It's cold in PTU, it's cold in school. And I would like to address Prime Minister Volodymyrna Timoshenko's responsibilities to deal with this situation. This is certainly not good in Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u19	Yes, instead of Gregory Bondarenko, Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u20	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Every day the media, television and radio inform the country that Sevastopol is frozen. The response to this emergency message is zero. The State whose territory is the town of Sevastopol is silent. And the point is, the more you get to know democracy, the more nostalgia in communist times. Perhaps what was there is democracy. A government commission would have been set up to do so in the past, and at 24 hours the people would not have been hostages of the games of greedy officials trying to achieve their commercial goals in such a cynical manner. Even terrorists take the bus as much as they can, and here tens of thousands of people -- and nobody cares. Subject: In connection with the bankruptcy of the State-owned enterprise, Crimean generating systems, in accordance with the recovery plan, Sevastopol TEC, the structural unit of the enterprise, is transferred to the lease of GHS-plus without agreement with the Sevastopol City Public Administration and, given that Sevastopol TEC is the only source of the city's micro-districts in which more than 34,000 inhabitants of the city live and the facilities of social infrastructure - hospitals, schools, kindergartens, boarding schools. The recovery plan provides for the full legal responsibility of the Crimean generating systems company in respect of both accounts and receivables. However, NAC “Neftegaz Ukraine” in the face of Gaz Ukraine's subsidiaries, threatened with the cessation of Sevastopol TEC's gas supply, forced the GHS-plus to sign the State-owned enterprise “Generating Systems” debt contract for the gas previously consumed. A number of proposals were made by the Sevastopol Government to resolve the problem: to restructure the debt, to settle the assets, but these proposals by DC “Gaz Ukraine” were not accepted. The Sevastopol Government held a number of meetings with DC “Gaz Ukraine” on gas supply at Sevastopol TEC, but no decision was taken. Time and again, Sevastopol sent a telegram to Deputy Prime Minister Kluev, acting as Azarov, but unfortunately, Naftegaz Ukraine, in the face of Prime Minister Boyko, ignored the mandate of these Vice-Prime Ministers. In ignoring the latest proposals, DC Gaz Ukraine has submitted its proposal to establish a joint venture with the further operation of the Sevastopol TEC, the contribution of the Sevastopol community, where a land plot of 28 hectares is located. In summary of the above, it can be concluded that activities have been halted by the NAC's management, "Neftegaz Ukraine" and "Gaz Ukraine ".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Please get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear radios, respectable colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the introduction of the Compulsory Liability Insurance Act on 1 April, and the police will fine people who do not have insurance policies. I have introduced Bill 6406/1, the substance of which is to amend the deadlines for the introduction of the bill. Why did I do that? First. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would ask that you pay attention to what we have been creating by introducing this law since first April we have created serious social tensions in society. There are no calculations today as to how much it takes to meet the needs of people in an accident. To illustrate: To date, the media know that two billion dollars will be charged in total, while four billion dollars a year will be reimbursed. Therefore, the foundations of corruption are already being established here. There is no law and mechanism to regulate the relationship between the insurance company and the insurance company. Most importantly, we do not know who will be the arbitrator in this matter. Administrative courts have not been established today to deal with these issues. Today, the GAI is again mandated to require documents and the existence of this policy. I would like to recall, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that under GAI law, there is no right today to impose fines on the driver. So we need to introduce a further amendment to the law on the administrative responsibility of the driver's offence. I therefore believe that, to date, Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are all conditions to give priority in March to the consideration of Bill 6406-1, which would change the situation, in return, of the deadline for the introduction of the bill. Again, I would like to point out that if, as of 1 April, the GAI starts to fine for the absence of a policy, we will again give rise to corruption on the roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin. None. Buiko. Ah, there's Carmazin. Excuse me, excuse me. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u24	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to draw the attention of President Victor Yashchenk of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to the need to stop the negative practice of preparing for the ratification of Ukraine's international treaties, to ensure close cooperation with the Supreme Council committees and to inform the Supreme Council on all orders and orders and regulations both by the President of Ukraine and by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This year alone, out of 103 decrees issued by President Kuchma of Ukraine, 32 came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not talking about the orders anymore. Please tell me how the constitutional rights of citizens are being implemented if even the Supreme Council does not know what decrees are being issued by the guarantor of the Constitution? If this is a step to Europe, I wonder! By the way, of the 14 decrees of President Yushchenk of Ukraine for the time being. We've got two. I ask the President of Ukraine to give order and to instruct the officials of the administration, who have so far remained in the Secretariat as to transmit to the Supreme Council the texts of decrees and orders. And first of all, pass on all those decrees that weren't passed on in the days of both Leonidas Kravczuk and Leonida Kuchma. I've talked about this before. The question is very serious. For example, Kuchma, during the period of the Constitutional Treaty and the Transitional Regulations of the New Constitution, hated such decrees that they grossly violate the Constitution and are secreted. For example, the specificity of tax administrations in courts has become clear. By secret decree, Kuchma illegally freed the judges from paying taxes. Now, with the cooperation of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers with the Supreme Council and the participation of the Supreme Council and its organs in the preparation of international agreements. At the stage of contract planning no later than one month before their signature, the draft prepared for their signature and prepared by the subject ready to sign it is submitted to the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, based on European integration and foreign affairs. The project preparation technology should provide that where the rules of the international contract provide for the exclusion, deletion or rejection of the general legal norms established by the provisions of the laws of Ukraine concerning the submission of relevant draft laws and the introduction of ratification contracts by the subjects to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These projects should contain information on the availability of such definitions, exclusions, removals, and deviations and observations. The Supreme Council should have a record of what rules of the applicable primary laws conflict with this covenant and may be qualified to decide whether or not to accept it. What different advantages the draft treaty has for different parties. So that it would not be as in the recent draft of the Agreement with Israel to avoid double taxation that would be more favourable for the Israelites than for the Ukrainians. Information about disfellowshipping, deleting, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u25	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, thank you. Dear National Deputies! Presentations by national deputies with applications and messages, information, requests completed. I ask the secretariat, taking into account the suggestions made by the national deputies, to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. Dear National Deputies! A draft law on symbolism of local self - government is being announced for consideration. Such rules of procedure are proposed. May I have your attention, please? For the reporter - 5 minutes, the answers to the questions - 5 minutes, for the co-report - 5 minutes, discussion and decision-making here is 7 minutes, let's just write down 12 minutes. Is there no objection? You don't? Please, Viacheslav Stanislavovich Koval, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to report. Prepare Vitalia Oluiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u26	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is being submitted to your consideration of the bill, the draft Ukrainian Law on Symbolism of Local Self-Government. Ukraine's bill on symbolism of local self-government was designed to optimize the valid legal framework in the field of determining the status of local symbols of Ukraine and its application, as a special Act under the Basic Act on Local Self-Government, which provides for settlement of issues, on symbolism by a separate Act, which contains the basic rules governing relations in the field under consideration. The project takes into account the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the basic applicable legislation and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The bill regulates all important aspects of the use of local self - government symbols. In particular, it establishes organizational and economic principles for the application of local self-government symbols, explains the very term of local self-governance symbols, defines the competence of local self-governance authorities to establish content, describe local symbols, and order their application. Provides a free order for the use of symbols, sets up a congregation using local symbols, and is responsible for violating Ukraine’s legislation on symbols of local self - government. It introduces lists of objects and monuments of history and culture that refer to the local symbolism established by the appropriate local authority. Projected to create a central register of cultural and historical monuments, the responsibility for which can be relied upon by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I believe that the bill will allow the congregation, using local symbolism, to make a substantial contribution to the local budget, to make effective use of the mentioned revenues to offset the local budget's spending on the preservation and restoration of history, culture and the restoration of the historical environment of the area concerned, as well as to contribute to the development of local tourist infrastructure. In addition, local symbols are supposed to be used in the names of enterprises with trademarks for goods and services and signs used. The production of services, the performance of any work, will contribute to the revival and promotion of the ancient traditions of Ukrainian ethnology and folklore in modern society. Modern - day Ukrainian legislation has several legal provisions that deal directly with matters of national symbolism and heraldics. This is article of the 20th Constitution of Ukraine, which defines national symbolism, and article 22nd of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which provides for the right of territorial communities, villages, cities of regions and districts to have their symbolism and the decree of the President of Ukraine to organize a heroic case in Ukraine. Both in the Constitution and in the above - mentioned law it is stated that the description of the symbolism and the order in which it is used is defined by a special law. So it was predicted that a law would be passed that would introduce the concept of symbolism and heraldry into the legal field of Ukraine. It is for the purpose of settling the specified sphere that a draft Law on local self - rule is proposed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, are there questions? Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Five minutes. Carmazin, behind him is Chefchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u28	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I have listened very carefully to your statement. I just can't understand why we couldn't include all of this in the Local Self-Government Act. How do you think it would be possible to include this as an element, and why not just this, but actually to go to the change in this legislation, we have some other questions about this? We're just delaying the consideration of these issues. I'd like to hear your opinion, because you're a specialist in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u29	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, distinguished national deputies. In 2002, I was referring to a bill called municipal tariffs. It was the fall of 2002. In the fall of 2002, I was told by the second author of the bill, the National MP of Rome, that let's wait, accept the Housing Code, everything will be fine. This, Yuri Anatolyovich, is about to take place in Odessa. There was a proposal for a mechanism, a legal and regulatory mechanism, to solve this complex problem of utility tariffs. To this day there is no Housing Code, there is no Law to this day, there is no law that deals with such a complex issue as municipal tariffs. And after that, events began in Odessa and continue to this day throughout Ukraine. Thus, a special law, according to the Constitution, can be adopted that regulates the concept and principles of symbolism, organizes symbolism, local self - government, which still exists, but is used in a chaotic way and without any legal standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u30	Please, Mikola's Cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Leschenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u32	Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u33	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Viachelav Stanislavovich, tell me, what is the purpose of adopting such a law? Is it to promote prestige, because we have different territories, regions, or to federalize Ukraine? Or in order to fill the budgets with money? Because of the 33 articles, only six are devoted to symbolism, while others are devoted to the permissive system and to the congregation for use. And one more thing. Please tell me that this bill is so interesting. Where did you get that kind of experience in which country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u34	With regard to which countries, we have not shared any experience in any other country. And there is a perfectly clear problem that needs to be solved. As far as this bill is concerned, what is the purpose of this bill? So the bill is for local self-government to have some kind of money that, in part, could compensate for the cost of preserving the architectural monuments that exist in each region, in every region of Ukraine, that's why the rules are written down, how do you do it to be properly regulated by the legal and regulatory framework of Ukraine's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u35	Yes, Basil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Viacheslav Stanislavovich! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Of course, we believe that the symbolism of local self - government should be provided by law. Why? Because it's actually already there. But I do have this question: Do you feel that the bill you presented does not link some articles to existing laws? So just to be clear, for example, the bill does not comply with the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. The project relies on the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to keep a central register of cultural objects and monuments. And according to article 5 of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, the central body of executive authority in the area of cultural heritage protection is the state registry. I mean, I think I need to tie it up. Isn't that what you're told? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. That's absolutely fair, that's a good question. In fact, right now next to this bill, there's another bill that takes all the notes into account, including what you're talking about. But if the Supreme Council accepts it in the first reading, all problems can be taken into account and ensured the proper use of the symbolism you rightly speak of. It already exists in fact. Let it be used and de jure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u38	Yes, thank you, have a seat. From the committee Vitaly Mikolayovich Olujko, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies, our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Law on the Symbolism of Local Self-Government, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Kowal and Blackwolf, which is defined by organizational law and economic principles for the application of the symbolism of local self-government. This legislative proposal is aimed at bringing the legislative framework into line with the constitutional requirements of local self - government and compliance with other laws. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this bill can be adopted on a basis. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the named draft law as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? 12 minutes as agreed. Solomonine, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. It's a very interesting bill, and it's directed, first of all, from my point of view, to disengageing the local authorities from the central authorities. For good or for evil, it's going to be every faction and every MP making their own decisions. I would like to draw our common attention to such things. For example, it is suggested that the permission to use local symbols, the coat of arms of a city or other inhabited area be issued by the appropriate authorities of local self - government. Please tell us who will grant permission to use these national signs, whether it is the national flag of Ukraine or the coat of arms of Ukraine? We can reach that limit with you when we need permission from the local authorities, even when the central authorities do not try to obtain such permits. Next, it was mentioned that article 4 and the entire Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act project were not in line. This law provides for the establishment by the central authority of the executive branch of the protection of cultural heritage, not by the Ministry of Justice, the State Register of Real Estate Monuments of Ukraine, nor by the central register of censuses. Next. It should be noted that the provisions of article 20 of the bill in part of the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of the subject matter of the production of postage stamps conflict with articles 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Postal Liaison, according to which the national operator issues postage stamps and marked envelopes, etc., and their subject matter, and the patterns are consistent with the editorial board, composition, functions, rights and responsibilities of which are determined by the competent central executive authority in the field of communications. Is that appropriate? That's it. Because it represents not only Minwezka but also the state of Ukraine. And I want to give you an example like this. It was in this session room that we had a heated discussion of the draft decree on marking at the national level of the century since the birth of the writer, Ulas Samchuk. Why was there a heated discussion? Because in the years of the Great Homeland War, Ulas Samchuk, for the money of the invaders and for their orders, published a corresponding newspaper, which was directed against the Soviet authorities, clearly and against.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u42	Please, Yuri Carmazin, our Ukraine faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the Voting Block "Our Ukraine" by Victor Yushchenk. Ladies and gentlemen, as the head of the Committee on Legislation, the systematization of legislation and the alignment of it with the international law of the Committee on Legal Policy, I have to read all the projects, the explanatory notes to them, the conclusions of the Legal Service, the President and the Government. Unfortunately, I have to say, and with pain: many projects are subject to abuse of the right to legislative initiative, and sometimes there are those that need to be made systematic, intruded and stable, thoughtful and just. the just have entered legislation because it is these factors, not even the size of taxes, that play a decisive role in the development of our economy in creating a climate conducive to it. The issue that addresses this project could be the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, why I asked questions and I agreed with the reporter. But there are still 13 projects under this law about local self - government that have not been considered. So I'm focusing once again on systemicity. In the first reading, of course, this law can be passed while we're going through that system, but I want to break this system, and I want to draw your attention to the fact that we passed a law on the calculation of the vocations of local government representative bodies that could also be contained in the law on local self-government. In one article, the adoption of a law that costs the state about 100,000 dollars, wages, composures, radio broadcasts. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give a protocol mandate to the Apparatus for the inclusion of draft texts in mandatory algorithms by the Legal Secretariat of the Committees to provide a paragraph on the conformity of the draft principles for the systematization of legislation and the information of national MPs on the possibility of regulating the rules of the new primary laws in the texts of the existing laws of Ukraine. It doesn't take months. It's absurd. The Milk and Milk Products Act was passed, and a breast - feeding project for infants was introduced within a few days. The original laws are laws, the text of which is the original text, which contains legal rules or prescriptions on a particular issue, to which the relevant amendments and additions are subsequently made. I'm sorry. I want to say that only half the laws are registered in the system as valid laws. As a result, neither do we know of you in the "Legislative" system in the automated information and search system "Ukraine's Laws" are considered to be valid in general, even such as the temporary law on the sovereignty of the State in the event of death, severe illness and being outside the state of the archduke Mr. Gethman of all Ukraine, approved by Mr. Gethman Paul Krapatsky on August 1, 18. That's why I'm asking the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, your thoughts are absolutely correct. Only one "but". It's not a machine that should do that, but it's what profile committees have with their secretaries. That's exactly the right point. Basil Nadrag, please, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. After him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I think you will agree with me that the issue that we are discussing today is not fateful. But this is a question that requires an elementary cultural understanding and, accordingly, a systemic solution. I think that if you consider this bill as an attempt to bring systemicism into local symbolism. Well, that's fine. Why? Because it's been so sad that we've almost every JAC in recent times been able to produce their local symbolism, and we've escaped steam smoke in this case. Let me give you an example. If there is, for example, the Second Herb of Ekaterina, the second coat of arms of the city of Luhansk, it is written under all the laws of the Heraldics, it is professionally done at a high artistic level. And even though this herb has not existed for a century, it will live forever. Why? Because it's done that way. As it is said, it is professionally done, literately in all its components. Based on that logic, I think we should treat this bill that way. Because all of the discussions on technical, technological and current shortcomings is a fairly secondary problem, because the primary problem is one: we need to streamline this situation. Therefore, he is absolutely in solidarity with all those who say that there are shortcomings. Yes, and this bill must be consistent with the Cultural Heritage Protection Act and with the Tax System Act and the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Local Taxes and Charges. It's all right, it has to be done. I think it should also be consistent with the law on payment and remittance in Ukraine. It's okay. But I think today, speaking of flaws, we just didn't spray the baby with water. There's a normal civilized proposal -- to streamline it, not to be very perturbing, but there's a problem in the State, and I think it's necessary. The only thing I would like to say is that, in preparing for the second reading of this bill, I believe that we should place more emphasis on the legislator in this case, I am referring to the decision-making of local self-government in the face of representative bodies, i.e. local councils. The Council should establish, the Council should monitor and the Council should, in general, keep the situation under control. Why? Because it is a sufficiently humanitarian sphere and it is natural that representative local authorities should speak both first and last words in this process. That is why I think it would be natural if we voted on this bill on first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u46	Yes. Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Orzhachovsky Anatoly, Communist faction. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonschina Dear colleagues, the Second Supreme Council is considering a bill on the symbolism of local self - government, and I personally and the faction believe that the Law should be, but is it worth accepting today? And even in the first reading? There are warnings and warnings. First of all, I would like to say that the Law as a whole is so far Syrian, it can contradict ideologies and some ideological intentions to run on others. And whoever says so, but in every bill that we're considering, we feel that someone is pursuing a purpose. So personally, I want to say that, and invite my colleagues to take a closer look at the article of the 3rd bill, which deals with the possibility of having a symbol of local self-government: coat of arms, flag and so on. And it's still written: the other attribute. I repeat: I need to give the tract a clear definition of another attribute. Because at the level of the regions, the villages and others will be, they're going to have a mother and they have some, so an anthem. Imagine how long we're going to have to wait for the completion of a business or some other business to get to the national anthem, so that's what we need to figure out. Second, who at the village level, the villages, the cities will write protocols? In the village council, the village, the apparatus has a small number. Is there going to be a war here, because here is the money between the tax, the police and the authorities of local self-government. Next. I think about paying taxes and so on, we can crack wood again. Because if those who wore orange scarfs and consider it symbolic, they would pay in time. They've spent millions of money on various occasions, during electoral suffering, they're not going to pay for it. And if the symbolism is appropriate for food and so on, it's going to raise prices, and it's going to be on our peasant, on the common man of our country. So I think today we need to think about this clearly. My colleagues here spoke faithfully about the fact that it is decided that it should be possible to unite and enroll in the Law on Local Self - Rule, which is being prepared today, and so forth. We've recently considered the Law on Goodwill, and there, by the way, and there is a lot of similarity in this bill. What's the point in duplicating? Indeed, we need to make sure that this bill is complete, delicate, and that there are no underwater stones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. A black man, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u49	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Respectful colleagues certainly do not call into question the need to regulate legislatively the symbolism of local self - government. Doubt causes another reason for us to adopt a separate law on each issue. Instead of adopting a modern, adequate situation, a promising Law on Local Self - Control, where all these issues will be settled. Instead of walking the way of patching holes, we need to sew up a new modern garment, adopt this law. And why does the Supreme Council not give any importance to the preparation of the Law on Local Self - Rule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the bill on symbolism of local self-government, the registration number of Bill 3388. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:49]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of re-reading the bill, please make up your mind. [[11:24:16]] For 254 The bill is directed at re-reading the first reading. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yesterday you and I passed as a whole a law amending some of Ukraine's aid laws. And unfortunately, you and I didn't think we'd be able to put this law into effect. We wrote that this law has been in force since January 1, 2005. In 2005, however, it was written down. In view of the fact that article 94 of the Constitution states that the law cannot take effect before its publication. On January 1st, we can no longer publish or publish. This is one moment. And second moment. Twenty - seventh famous article of the Codex Budget that speaks of financing. And here, unfortunately or fortunately, there are expenditures from the State Budget under this law. We talked to the head of the profile committee who led this bill, Mikola Ephraimovich Polishchuk. He agrees that you and I need to clarify now. Because if you don't mind, dear colleagues, let's vote that the Act on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Laws on Aid Size has been in force since January 1, 2006. Please vote on this proposal. Vote. [[11:26:03]] For 315 Thank you, the decision is made. And in this way we will have the opportunity not to run into one another, sorry for not having a parliamentary statement on the President's veto. Here we are going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Organizing State Registration in relation to the Adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. The bill is discussed in a second reading. Report to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Dubitsky Vjacheslav Volodymyrovich, please. Microphone, please, Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." I wanted to make one point, I have nothing against this bill, which is technical, I think it can be supported. But let's wrap it up with practice when we've been given a comparative table today, you know? These are Ukrainian laws, after all. I'm even talking about regulatory requirements, I'm saying essentially. But how can we normally vote for cats in a bag? This is because a large number of laws we adopt, their quality is not always high. That's why I'm very much addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, and other leaders of the Supreme Council, but still stick to the requirements of the Rules here so that we can give quality consideration to the bills. I don't stand for refusing to consider this issue right now, but this is a wish for the future -- not to look at the projects that are being distributed on the same day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u52	Yes, thank you, Boris Jakovitch. Absolutely correct observation, let's stick to the rules of the Rules. But because he's already standing here today, and Boris Yakovitch doesn't deny that he needs to be considered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship prepared a comparative table for the second reading of Bill No. 5128 — amending some of the legislative acts on the organization of state registration in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code. And that's exactly what National MP Boris Bespali said it was. There are technical points that need to be reconciled with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The table includes 25 comments and suggestions, all of which are included. Honourable National Deputies, members of the committee working on the bill, have highlighted the problem of legislative settlement of separate subunits of landowners. The draft law, adopted in the first reading, provides that not all operators are subject to state registration. In fact, it is predicted that some of the farming entities, separated by the department of the farm organizations, are not subject to registration. The idea that not all operators should be subject to State registration is wrong, since one of the main registrations is being destroyed: no organization is subject to the State until it has been recognized by the subject. At the same time, it is possible to identify assets by providing an undetermined circle of information on these subjects — the location of persons who are qualified to act on behalf of the subject, and so forth. Thus, the subject of the law, apart from man, is created by a State act, in this case an act of registration. Therefore, all organizations, without exception, can become subject to a government registration alone, and this registration should therefore be subject to registration. At the same time, separate units of economic organizations are not subjects of law, including economics, since they do not exist as subjects of civil trafficking, do not make contracts, do not speak for themselves. This automatically results from the fact that both property rights subjects and civil rights entities are subject to property trafficking, and thus such entities should be compatible. there may not be a situation in which an organization is, for example, an employer or a tenant under economic law, but it is also an entrant or a tenant under civil law, since it is not a subject of civil law at all. With the lecture it turns out that there is no need to make changes to article 19, paragraph two. Instead, the other articles should be amended, first of all, by the 55th and 58th Master Code. The committee supported the proposals made to the bill. It is suggested that the bill be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the proposals made by the drafters of the legislative initiative, which were submitted to this bill, are taken into account. We have every reason to support the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Organizing State Registration in connection with the Adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. Project registration number 5128. Please vote. [[11:31:50]] For 249 The law is passed. Let's move on to the section "Abbreviated procedure." There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokus of Ukraine. [[concerning the procedure for the transfer of the judge to another court]] The bill is registration number 5168. Reported by the author of the bill, School Andriy Vasilovich. Please, three minutes. Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u55	Thank you. The changes to the Ukrainian Judicial Act are very simple. In recent years, almost most of the judges qualified, less qualified, have come to Kiev. And these movements weren't caused by a complete set of district courts in Ukraine, and more than that, they're always understaffed. The Kyiv District, City Courts, and Court of Appeal are always made up of almost 100 percent. Because as an initiator, I propose to limit the need for judges to be moved from place to place for no reason, which is that this cannot be a promotion, because qualified judges should also be in the areas of Ukraine. It can't be part of an incentive to transfer the judge, say, from Crimea to Kiev. Or from the Winnitsk region to Kiev, as was often the case. Because in principle this can be seen as one of the elements of illicit encouragement, elements of influence: make the decision you need to make. in this court case and you'll move to Kiev, with the apartment, the good work and all the consequences that come out of it. So to talk about what might have an impact right now, I've been given some warnings about human rights and the rights of judges -- absolutely not, it will, because the judge, first of all, has a professional duty and an oath. He has to do it, he has to work in the workplace where he's called and where he serves people, because he needs to protect people's rights to qualified service in the areas. There can be no sign of qualifications for being in the capital. The mark of qualifications should be the work of the judge, appreciated by the way he works by the relevant institutions, and not, I stress once again, the encouragement of bringing the judge to Kiev. For soon all will be transferred to Kiev, and in the regions there will be no one who will have a fine conduct of judgment. Of course, I am opposed to working out a term or committing myself to a judge, as it were, for many years in one place. No, it's not. I'm just opposed to the unmotivated transfer from the District Courts to Kiev, from the District Courts, because it could be and was often used, and I hope it won't be used as an element of the unlawful encouragement of the judge. So I encourage you to support in the first reading and those minor refinements and suggestions that were, I suggest you consider the following. He is convinced that this bill is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u56	Thank you. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u57	You're the presiding officer! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Today, a bill is being discussed to improve the quality of Ukrainian judiciary and organizational arrangements to ensure fair, impartial, quick, and accessible judicial proceedings. As the reporter has just said, the bill proposes to supplement article 62 of the Law on the Suduce of Ukraine with a new part that foresees conditions, i.e. sets certain limits, and I want to draw the attention of the Chamber to the transfer of a judge of one level and one specialization from one court to another. You know that this translation is carried out by the President's decrees and, at least, it's provided for by the Court of Justice Act, and that's the practice. However, the committee that considered this issue at its meeting felt that the proposed additions could not be supported, since they contradict article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which everyone had the right to work. He chooses this work freely, and we cannot limit the right of a judge who works in one area, for example, to move his family to work, to work as a judge in another area. The fact is that the author, in an effort to avoid situations where there are cases where there are cases in courts, for example, in one area, especially in rural courts, there are vacancies, there are one judge or two judges working, and in the absence of judges, the judge is transferred to another area by decree of the President. I think from the point of view of social motivation, from the point of view of the desire for organisational and legislative action to influence this process, the author of the legislative initiative needs support. But I think it's something else to do. In particular, it is for those bodies that today are obliged to regulate and prepare judges to fill vacancies, namely, the State Administration, the Supreme Court of Commerce, the Supreme Administrative Court, which has recently been established, that the Supreme Court is obliged to take a closer look at the situation that has arisen with the filling of judges. In view of this, the committee has concluded that the bill cannot be supported and at the same time considers it useful to draw the attention of those, to the authority and authority of whom the settlement of matters related to the filling of the courts by proper and experienced judges. In itself, the discussion is something that may be up - to - date and will be beneficial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u58	Thank you, and give it to me, please. Yes. Let's move on to the discussion. Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, has the word. He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u59	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The point of this bill is, in my opinion, important. In fact, we are now faced with the problem that we do not have courts provided by judges, which is that we are not staffed in places and that is a very problematic issue. But, as the drafter suggests, it's not possible for me to solve this question, because those proposals, or those positions that are laid down in the bill, are contrary to article 43 of the Constitution, where it comes to the fact that a person is entitled to choose for himself a job that he can do and a place to stay on this job. And by the Law, it is probably not normal and unconstitutional to force a person to do something. But there's a problem in the state, and it came out because we destroyed the system that we had. In my opinion, in order to establish order, it is necessary to take the President's mandate so that the President does not appoint judges, nor does the President decide whether or not to transfer a judge from another court to another court. This makes the judiciary dependent and the judge dependent, because it all depends on whether or not you've agreed to the President - that's what the President's decision will be. And as it happens in practice, we've seen, we've seen in the old days, we've seen in these times not such a short period of orange cataclysm that we had in our country. And imagine, if today's President, today's authorities, were to keep their word to the pre-election thief who should be in prison, imagine what a ridiculous position today's courts would be, always on the side of that power, and now they would have to judge Kuchma. Well, maybe it would be, really, what would look insane. We really need to make the courts independent. And in order to provide them with staff, we have to go back to that planned system of graduation specialists so that university specialists or university graduates can be sent to the courts, worked there as assistants, trained as specialists. And these will be qualified judges. And they need to be chosen, not assigned. Then we will have a court, really, independent, not depending on where the wind blows or what color the scarves will paint.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u60	Please have the word of Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Melnichuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u61	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, Ukraine’s Judicial Act, was passed on February 7, 2002. And when he got in, I was standing next to John Stepanovich Plush and begging, don't put up any more votes. Unfortunately, this law has become a hostage, a hostage to prevent Melnichenko from becoming a national deputy, I mean Major Melnick. That's why there's a lot of problems in this law, and that's why we've proposed a new edition and we need to take a new edition. But with regard to this bill, which is now being tabled, in accordance with part four of article 20 of the Ukrainian Judicial Act, the number of judges in the courts is determined solely by the President, and therefore cannot be greater or less than that specified. It's defined that way. That is why a judge cannot be transferred to a position that is not vacant in another court. And the cost of a salary that wasn't even foreseen in the court's budget. So this proposal of a person that I highly respect, the National MP of the School, in further regulating the issue is unacceptable. And it was quite right for both the Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Seljinov and the Deputy Minister of Justice of Emilianov to answer that question, and today the Committee that reported on that question. Also, the refusal to refer the judge to another court if there are vacant positions in the court where he works is the judge. And this proposal, this ban, contradicts clearly article 43 of the Constitution, from which everyone is entitled to the work that he chooses and freely accepts. When an oath is made, no judge swears that he will exercise justice only in this court. He has sworn allegiance to Ukraine. Therefore, if the judge is required to move to a different location, he will have to apply for release. So I think that this bill is one that is not worth supporting. I would like to ask the National Deputy of the School to make my proposals for a new bill that is currently being prepared for the judiciary, for a new drafting of this law, which would normalize a lot of problems, including deciding what to do with the clotting of cases that have now arisen in the Supreme Court. There's tens of thousands of them out there. We made it impossible to consider normal matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u62	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Gunnery Eugene. Microphone, please, Melniczuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u63	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region All - Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the decision of the profile committee. Of course, we can see that there is nothing wrong with the bill. And yet I would like to point out that we are once again in Parliament with you when we need to make changes to the Ukrainian Judicial Act. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly talked about this in Parliament and in its specific actions and decisions that we need to systematically address the issue of development, professional development, together with judges of the judiciary and the status of judges. We have to do this right now, because if we're talking about what the axis is before the law, the courts have to be freed from the telephone right of someone to give orders to the judges or the heads of the court. So once again, everything needs to be done so that the legal committee can repeal these two laws, work with the judges of the Supreme Court, the household court, other levels of the courts, i.e. with the local, appeals judges, I will not count. And so we can get really systematically worked out those two laws that will work for and for Ukraine's judiciary, and still our judges will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. You don't? Then please, the Chernobyl Leonid. Nor is it. Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u65	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! I support this bill because there are a lot of staffing problems in the courts today, and they need to be addressed. There is no problem in transferring judges from one court to another. Unless the judge wants to work in the area. In general, I believe, in principle, that judges should, in order to get rid of the illustration, sooner or later, move on to the system when judges are elected by the people, and specifically by the people in the area where they live. But this law is intermediate to solving this problem, because, of course, the electorate and the common people themselves know well which judge treats them better, which judge. Well, it's better, I mean, it protects their interests against the State, and which judge treats them as inhumanes. In general, our people need the courts to take the stand of specific people, and I want to remind all the people's deputies who listen to me, that in the rule of law the interests of one person, even his hair, are of greater interest to the entire State. That's what the court should be on. The Bible says, “protect the weak from the strong, ” and this should be a priority for any judgment. By the way, I have passed a bill to ensure that the courts are not financed by local authorities, but only by the budget, but unfortunately this law has not found its support. I believe that next time you will vote for it, because what is happening today is that it is the opinion of the poor officials who convince the judges that if this is solved in this way, the interests of the State will be affected, so it is for the benefit of the State. What “for the sake of the State” when the State is today an enemy of the people. Today, the construction of free housing in general has been completely discontinued. And a million problems have arisen in people who need judicial protection. The law can therefore be supported in the first phase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u66	Please, with a motive, one minute, a black man.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u67	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. My fellow Members, I understand the noble intentions of the Deputy School regarding the need for a legislative order to move the judge from one court to another. What I don't understand is why we've been putting up with Parliament's 2002 Justice of Ukraine Act. This law is harmful. He overturned the Supreme Court with so many cases that the judges there are groaning, unable to consider, the delay of years takes place, after a year and a half. Things don't work out. The Supreme Council passed the law under the guise of the moment. We need to adopt a new version of the Law on the Court of Ukraine as soon as possible, including the question raised by the Deputy School. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u68	Please, it's the school's lockup microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u69	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I actually wanted to point out that if the bill was adopted in the first reading, then it would be taken into account later in the law on the judiciary that is being updated and proposed, and you could edit it, and most importantly, that the committee would work with it accordingly. So I think that's the best way out of this situation, because there's a problem, there's an irregularity in the transition of a judge from one court to another, and it's going to exist, and it can be used, because there's always going to be a reason to illegally encourage the judge to move from the district court to Kiev, above, to the area and so on. And so I call upon all the national MPs to vote in the first reading of this bill, and later to go back to it, or as a complement to the new large open bill on the judiciary, or by then the appropriate committee will work and propose a more quality and fuller law for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokustra of Ukraine. [[concerning the procedure for the transfer of the judge to another court]] Bill number 5168. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:57]] For-66 Not accepted. The bill was rejected. Here we go to the draft Act amending article 107 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. Bill number 6252. [[on garrison courts]] Short-term procedure. The National Deputy of Ukraine, the author of the Rudkovsky Dmitry Alexanderovich bill, reports. Please, three minutes. From the committee to prepare Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! What calls for the adoption of such a bill? With regard to military reform, there is a steady trend towards an increase in civilian affairs and their implementation. The recognition of the right to receive pensions, its recalculation, the recognition of the right to receive money and other forms of security and that are being considered by military courts. This fact is vividly evidenced by the increase in the authority of such courts. In particular, 5,500 cases were considered in 2000, some 15,000 in 2003 and some 26,000 in 2004. [[in fewer courts]] Civil proceedings by military courts are specific. Only military courts are provided with well-known regulations on military matters, including thousands of orders, directives, instructions, regulations, military administrations, the Ministry of Defence, BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and others. In order to ensure the protection of the State’s secrets, when dealing with individual civil cases, military courts are equipped with suitable facilities, conduct secret business, and all judges and employees are allowed to work with secret documents. Such conditions are not available in local general courts, and their proper provision requires considerable costs. Military courts are able to ensure that court cases are handled in military areas outside Ukraine and in closed garrisons. Who's gonna do it instead of the military courts? The military court system is as adaptable as possible to military formations and thus ensures that military personnel are available to justice. So in 2004, the new Civil Procedure Code was not approved without the amendment of the People's Deputy Sirenka, which provided for the preservation of jurisdiction in individual civil cases by military courts. As for the claims that military courts do not seem to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and European standards, the exercise of justice is challenged by valid legislation on the judiciary, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 December 2003, the resolution of the Permanent Committee on Human Rights of the Council of Europe of 2003 in the official position of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. Moreover, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 29 June 2004 on a specific case concerning Ukraine has been confirmed that the examination by military courts in Ukraine of civil matters meets international standards. And to the end. I mean, there are questions, they say that military and others influence the court. No, it's not. The military title is assigned by the President, the salary is paid through the court administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Slabenko Sergey Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, will you please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy has carefully considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 107 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the Military Courts of the Garrison. Registration number 6252. The committee is hard enough to go through in part of what has been a lot of comments to this bill, including those comments that have been made by scientific and expert authorities in part of the fact that, in part two of the Article 107, which is proposed for approval, there are these words: "as well as cases that are subject to civil justice in a regime of objects and military areas outside Ukraine. From this point of view, if we look closely at it, we can literally view what is to be resolved in the order of family life and in matters arising from family, land, and financial, other relationships. So we fully agreed with the comments made by the Supreme Council's Apparatus, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The Committee also considered carefully and the conclusion given by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which stated that reproduction in the Civil Procedure Code of Military Courts was not in line with article 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provided that the system of courts was based on the courts of general jurisdiction, i.e. they were built on the principle of territoriality, as well as specialized courts. The specialization of the courts is when there are particular sectoral signs, i.e., economic, administrative courts, etc. The construction, again, of military courts does not conform to the principle nor to the territoriality nor to the principle of specialization. There is a separate conclusion that came to us from the Supreme Court of Ukraine. He also made a lot of comments to the bill, and in general, he asked the question that it would have to be legislatively improved to improve the civil procedure code in part of the decision that the courts' activities in dealing with cases involving civil servants' disputes. The Committee on Legal Policy has repeatedly considered this issue in part when looking at other legal instruments. This question was studied very carefully when we adopted a civil procedure code in a new edition that has not yet been implemented. And then this proposal was also rejected. However, the committee has made a positive decision, with little advantage today, it is putting the bill before you and asking him to take it as a basis in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Karmazin, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u75	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Respectful national MPs, a comparative analysis of the organization of military justice in various countries, allow for a more objective assessment of the human rights mechanism for the protection of the rights of military personnel in our country. It does not conflict with article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, nor does it conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. It should also be borne in mind that civil cases before military courts have sufficient specificities. The issues decided by the courts in these cases are governed by regulatory acts that are generally not publicized and are linked to the need to respect the requirements for the protection of State secrets regarding the activities of the BSS, divorce agencies and other defence structures. On the other hand, these matters require a special approach to their resolution and consideration. The secrecy regime should also be maintained, and I am grateful to the national MP Rudzkowski for introducing this bill. I absolutely agree with and agree with his argument that public funding is being made. Administration, and the military ranks are assigned by the President. And there's no dependence on the military. Statistics show that there is a significant increase in the workload of these courts. If they were looking at 170 civil cases in 1996, in 2004 it's already 29,000 cases. At the same time, 97 percent of military appeals are enjoyed by military courts and their rights are renewed. That's the answer to the question. What is the point of view of the country’s highest court office in the Supreme Court of Ukraine? We have him in answer to our committee, to the Committee of Legal Policy. That's the conclusion. In general, the bill is valid and reasoned, aimed at enhancing proper qualified judicial protection, extending the content and scope of rights and freedoms to 500,000 persons under the jurisdiction of military courts. And it is pointed out that the number of cases before the courts is increasing by a quarter. This is the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Ukraine that such changes should be made. The question of relevance will certainly be behind us. I categorically reject all allegations of violation of the Constitution on equality, since these courts are governed by the same Constitution, the Law on the Status of Judges and the judiciary. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u76	The word is given by Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u77	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, by accepting the proposed changes and additions to the article of the seventh Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, we have to correct with you the covert flaw that was assumed when the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Civil Procedure Code, which takes effect on January 1, 2005. These changes and additions are very simple. They're presented in a new part of article 107 of this content. "The garrison military courts, as courts of the first instance, are subject to judicial proceedings in civil proceedings involving the protection of violated unrecognized or contested rights, freedoms or interests of military personnel, who are bound by military service during the conduct of assemblies and other members of the military, institutions, military service organizations, contract compliance, social security and legal protection of military personnel, their pension security, honour and dignity matters by the parties in which the persons and organizations referred to above are identified, as well as cases that are subject to civil proceedings in particular ordinary objects and in military areas outside Ukraine read." This is the content of this change. Our faction has carefully considered this bill and suggests that it be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the critical points that may arise during the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u78	The word is made by the national deputy of Chernevski, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Get ready, Onechück.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u79	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! I would like, first of all, to take advantage of the fact that we have never done so, by the presence here of Vasily Timofeevich as President of the Supreme Court, to welcome him for having today's democratically elected President. It's very important. He's sitting here, and he's worth a round of applause. [[Applause]] As for the bill, and I can't help but agree with some comments or something that might come from the Supreme Court, but in any case you've raised the authority of the courts, and people have the hope that they can get a dignified solution to their cases. [[And thank you, Vasily Timofeyevich, for we are being listened to by millions of people.]] With regard to the bill of amendments. Amendments to the Civil Code, I am absolutely opposed to civil cases being tried by military courts because they are in most cases close to military organizations because they are still going with the pursuits, because they, some of them, I am sure that with you, Vasili Timofieevich, 99 per cent no longer respond to generals and admirals who have set up half-ways in the army, and there are a few who respond to all the poor generals who have had a huge amount of military and other property that they have embalmed. In no way could they deal with civil matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, let's stop this discussion right now, let's make a decision. I'm asking people who are invited as guests to behave as guests is polite. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending article 107 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on garrison military courts, the registration number of Bill 6252. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u81	Well, vote in the presence of the President, show it. [[12:10:14]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Maybe first. Well, by factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 15, Communist faction - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, People's Agrarian Party - 4, SPI - 7, SDPU - 17, "Only Ukraine" - 15, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Soyuz - 3, "Will of the People" - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, "Centre" - 2, "DP-Republic" - 8, "Postfactional" - 15. There is a proposal to re-read the bill. Please vote. [[12:11:02]] For-183 The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is that of giving consent to the appointment of Yulia Timoshenko Prime Minister of Ukraine. The meeting of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council is attended by: President of Ukraine Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, Members of Government, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, according to articles 85 and 85. And the mayor of the capital, Alexander Alexander Omelchenko. [[Applause]] Honorary colleagues, in accordance with articles 85 and 106, and 114 of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Constitution, are appointed by the President of Ukraine for more than half of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As we know, the President of Ukraine made a proposal to the Supreme Council on 28 January for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna as Prime Minister of Ukraine. As predicted, full - scale consultations were held with the factions of Julia Volodymyrovna, a member of the Supreme Council. As to the procedure for dealing with the matter. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 10 July 1996, such a procedure has been established to consider granting approval to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and to decide on the matter. Prior to the introduction to the Supreme Council, appropriate consultations were held, and they took place. This paragraph was implemented by decrees. In a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine reports on the main directions of the new Cabinet of Ministers' activities for up to 30 minutes. I mean, with the Cabinet of Ministers program on the composition that is proposed to be approved. After the report is completed, time is given up to 45 minutes for questions from the national deputies to the candidate for the post. to serve as Prime Minister of Ukraine and to answer them. This is followed by a discussion of the proposed candidate, up to 45 minutes, including statements by representatives of groups, factions, Ukrainian national deputies. The decision to grant an appointment by the President of the Prime Minister of Ukraine shall be taken at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a roll-call vote. It is proposed that, after consideration and in the event of a positive decision by the President of Ukraine in order to demonstrate to the Supreme Council the aspirations and real steps towards cooperation, the relevant decisions are signed here and there are also representations of members of the Cabinet of Ministers with the signature of relevant documents as well as the heads of local government administrations. It means the district, Kyiv and Sevastopol city administrations. Is there no objection to such a procedure? None. I ask the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear national MPs, friends, colleagues! Honorable Presidium, Guests, Visitors, Media Representatives! I am convinced that today is a very big day in Ukraine. We are looking at the issues of government formation that are relevant for the next few years. You know, it's good to live in a country where the government has little to do with laws, traditions, norms, ethics, morals, and so forth. Regrettably, we live in that country, where the fate of almost 48 million people will depend on what their morals are, whether they will steal or not, depending on how professionally they see their mission publicly. And from this point of view, I want to say that this is a super important question in the political context. I want to tell you frankly that I represent the first composition of a team of people who I think are the most likely candidates for these positions. I would like to say in advance that my government will not do. Since there are tremendous expectations, expectations for solving certain or other issues, I would like to begin with what my government will not do. I know what responsibility these words will now bear, but I have the honour to tell you that my government will not steal. I know it's a fantasy for Ukraine, I know that we're used to seeing in these people not partners, very often not only nations, but also national interests, I want to, you know, not bypass, I know that in this country problem number one is corruption, and it starts with the head. I'm not taking bribes, I'm not stealing, I'm demanding the government. And if you have a way of saying that the person sitting behind the third chair is stealing. [[The third chair is not meant here.]] Adam Ivanovich, you realize that you have no relation to this comparison. I want to say, my friends, that the government won't be easy to steal, the government won't be taking bribes. The government will not take money to Parliament to hold any candidature or to carry out any law. Think, please, the government will not take money to Parliament. This is what I want, my friends, to say, I call on you and the government to stand on purely public transparent procedures in this state. I want to testify that transparency and publicity will be one of the characteristics of my government's work. Decisions will be made only in the sitting room, not in the resting room. Decisions will be signed publicly, whether it relates to finance, whether it relates to resources, or whether it refers to privatization. I mean, what's the government gonna do? The government has presented you with a program that will answer how to live in 2005 with a clear social portrait of the nation. What must be done primarily for the most disadvantaged people of our nation. We want to say that we want to cancel all corporate benefits that have been introduced for more than a year. We're going to tell you what structures these benefits apply to and we're going to cancel them with you. This will be my great request to you. Let's start with our stables, clean up the relationship that applies to business. We want to change the policy of the state in the system of government ownership. I'm confident that if you work in public, you'll get a lot of billions of budget concessions that aren't planned today to give to the poor person. We want to review the work of all free economic zones so that it's not a blow to anyone. 24 economic zones are not in China either. Well, you know, where the clan is, there's a zone. I didn't think in that sense, but it's a good thing it did. So, dear friends, we can get a lot of transparent public financial flows from a rational view of economic zones or investment areas, including the budget. There's a specific number that I'm not going to call. I testify, my dear friends, that we will conduct an honest privatisation within the framework of the law that has been passed by Parliament. The objects that have been stolen will be returned to the state, starting with "Criminals". I am convinced that we will overcome the thefts of the land that took place both in Crimea and near Kiev. All of us, my friends, will truly return to the land to which it belongs. It's colossal resources, my friends. That's what I want to say. My government will want to hand over the business. We're ready to go to amnesty capital, taxes. We're ready to go to tax cuts. We're willing to cancel, regardless of our conversation, all the repressions that were made by tax, by other state-controlled structures. That won't happen. But in return, I'd like to make sure that we don't get a higher hand in the air than business does. And the hand sign will mean that business is childish, it starts working honestly with authority, and it starts paying the principal taxes. Based on these measures, we plan to accumulate between 25 billion and 30 billion dollars, dollars, and funds this year. As part of these actions, we're going to propose that you take one third to the state's financial reserve for the future, two thirds to give to the poor, as you will accept in accordance with the budget in this Parliament. This is such a brief philosophy of what will be in the first initiatives, the systematic initiatives of the government up to the adoption of the budget. Today, dear friends, you will be presented with the nominations of the prime ministers of the government, the Prime Minister, of course, the heads of the district administrations. We come from the fact that the work of the government, starting with the Prime Minister, ending with the ministers and heads of administration, will not look like a schlossic, what to do tomorrow or the next day. Each minister will have two or three sectoral national or regional programs that will make up the essence of his work in 2005. Each of the heads of the district administration will have three or four regional programs that create the face of the territory. These are humanitarian, social, economic programs. So we want to make this action plan for 2005, which should end in December with a very effective monitoring exercise. I want to propose models by which the political forces that support the government today will be the day-to-day creators of the current policy of power. You won't be separated, you'll be a direct correspondent. We're going to have monthly monitoring of the tasks you've set out for which you have political responsibility. We're going to have national monitoring, which doesn't start with where the internal gross product grows. It's going to start with how many jobs in 30 days have been done by one head of administration, how many structures have been built for the development of business, small and medium, done in contrast to the crimes that are created by different structures in the area. The same thing I want to say is that we offer you a public, honest and responsible policy where no one is hiding -- not a politician, not a member of the government, not any other party that is responsible or can be responsible in this process. In my opinion, dear friends, this is an honest conversation. We need to find out, we need to look at the processes that we've been accustomed to for 14 years. We have the will to change that. Your support, your complicity, I'm sure there is. And so, dear friends, using this opportunity, I would like to introduce Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and say a few words. [[Applause]] Julia Volodymyrna -- my political partner, like in the UCPB biographies, was adopted there -- my political friend, a professional person. I had the opportunity to work with her in 2000-2001. She was then my government's deputy prime minister, responsible for one of the resonant parts of the government's work -- the fuel-energy complex, Ukraine's energy policy. I remember how this complex was when we took it to the execution. There, five percent were paid at the expense. Everything else was either stolen, regardless, because of pretenses or no pretenses, or paid with cobblers, furs, hats. When we left the government, 78 percent of the market worked with money that went through the budget and related social and other funds. We've set up a wholesale energy market. Not everything worked out, not with all the participants, not even the wholesale market, and a lot of the market participants, I'm sure, and so far working on this market without contracts, as they did three years ago. But that's the system we got. But I highly appreciate what was done by Julius Volodymyrical while working in the government. She and I have had a difficult election political campaign with many of you. This gives me the following words: I trust her and I believe her. I believe she's organizing the work of a national government. [[Applause]] I trust her as millions of people trust her. [[Applause]] And I think Julia Volodymyrna is aware of the responsibility of the millions of eye pairs who have been watching from the field, from the streets, from her, from us. People expect that the new government will be honest and will solve the problems that my nation has experienced for 14 years. I will convince you that I am completely in this faith and in this trust. And so, with the right vested in me by the Constitution, dear friends, I ask your permission, the Supreme Council's consent, to appoint Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u83	The interview is given to the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ulysses Volodymyrni Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u84	Honourable People of Ukraine, Honourable President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council, National Deputies, all present in this Hall! You and I have all gone through a very difficult election path, regardless of political affiliation. And we have done a unique thing, each of which is that we have awakened in the people the faith and the hope that power can work not only for ourselves, not just to satisfy its problems, but that it can work for those people who have been observing power for 12 years and who want to get the result of it. And that is why, when I feel such a rise in society, understanding the expectations that are in society today for what the authorities will do and we will do together with you, I would like, first of all, to thank both the people of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, and the Parliament for having the privilege of presenting the program and having the opportunity to be presented to the Supreme Council for the consideration of the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I can tell you that this honor is a decisive one in my life. And besides, to justify your hopes, your expectations, people's expectations, there's little left in my life. But I would like to start by saying that the procedure that has always been about considering the Prime Minister's candidacy in the Supreme Council Hall was that the Prime Minister came, talked about himself, his life, but not about the real program of government activity, and then, a month later, this program was being considered, and only after a month of understanding and parliament, and the society that this Prime Minister is going to do. And that's why I've always had the question of whether this Prime Minister would fit in color, in weight, in height. I think that's a completely illogical approach. And that's why I'm now asking you, the Head of the Supreme Council, to hear today's report, which applies exclusively to the government's work programme, and so that we can be able to understand what this government will do for five years while President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko is in Ukraine under the Constitution and the laws. And so this program is given to you, and it is now presented to me from this rostrum. In addition, the content of the program has changed significantly. If governments have always tried to give figures, some concrete action in the field, and people have not felt that these figures are behind them, the government for the first time wanted to present to you the philosophy of our thinking, the philosophy of government work, the philosophy of the development of our society. And I think that if this philosophy is understood, then the numbers and concrete successes in the economy, in the finance, in the individual spheres are the result of how fair, how legal, how clear conditions were put into the basis of this particular work. And that's why this program that's proposed has even non-standard chapters. It has six chapters and the first of these is faith. You know, everything about the humanitarian sphere has always been because of anyone in the last chapter of the program. And it always seemed to be a completely unrealistic, not a material thing that couldn't be felt. Actually, that's not true. You and I were convinced that when tens of millions of people out of all political camps went to Midan to defend their right to power, we saw that they went out for their lives, for their freedom, for their dignity. And it was this faith that made real material changes. And so I want to start by saying that faith is a component of all material success. Therefore, the first chapter of the program is dedicated to the birth of true faith in God in our society. And that means that our faith and the faith of our people are not needed by God, that man is needed and needed by our society. And that means that you and I are going to have a real moral aspect of our lives. What do we plan to do about it? I think we need to make a part of our education a spiritual component. And, you know, when I was in one of the developed European countries, and on Sunday I went to a public education school, and I saw that little kids of 7 to 8 years of age, who just started learning, they start their week of going to church, believe me, it just gives kids spirituality, morality, strength. [[Applause]] Moreover, we need to examine with you the status of spiritual education in Ukraine in order not to be in the final principle, so that it does not have a normal status, but to be a worthy education equal among all. And I believe that the slogan that I said the first time I came into politics that Ukraine would never get off its knees until it got on its knees before God, I believe in that slogan, I believe it will. [[Applause]] The next faith that must be born is the faith of people in their own country, the belief that it is their own home, that it will always protect and give a normal life worth living. And that's why faith in the country starts with how much we follow our traditions, how much we know and realize our history. And so our faith in the country will begin with what we will restore and make absolutely clear our history, so that there will be no drag, no political exaggeration, but that we will see how our history has really evolved, our country. And I also want to share with you the feeling that is in the world today, because the world was once European-centric, American-centric, but believe me, during these elections the world became Ukrainian-centric. [[Applause]] And today, all they talk about in the world's higher political spheres is that politics in the world is either bad or very bad, but the only bright, bright thing in the world is Ukraine, and so Ukraine is not just our hope, it's the hope of the world. And so if we talk about the belief of our people in Ukraine, I want to share with you the main thing that everyone today sees Ukraine and our people as a country that brings a unique mission into the world to give completely new standards of social, political, social life to order more just than they do today, even in the most developed countries. And that's why this mission of Ukraine is our mission to support and convey with honor, and not to drop this flag because otherwise we're going to have to start over. On this beautiful wave, we will give such standards of living that the richest countries of the world will envy. And we're going to do it with you because it's a sacred and worthy purpose. And I can tell you that in addition to that, we have to give birth to faith in ourselves and also an ingredient. And we know that the path open to man is a wonderful model that the government has to work on. To clear the way for man everything that prevents him from living. All obstacles, obstacles and opportunities, and a strong man, and weak to find a place in our social life. And that's why faith, which is also based on our wonderful achievements in culture, in art, I think we have to show the world that we are strong in this spiritual component. And I was very pleased to see people's passions now that all the offices were talking about some personnel being distributed and I went to Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's office and heard that he was the first problem he discussed was creating Ukrainian Ermitage. And he's discussing it in a way that's the purpose of our lives. And that's why I know that with these priorities, you and I will always overcome all the difficulties. And now I'd like to move on to the fact that the second chapter of our program is also not a very common name for a government program: justice. Justice is where life starts, that's what it's all about. That's what all the people in every square were dreaming about. And I can tell you that justice is an environment where you can create any economic, social, financial reforms. But if this environment is missing, we have nothing to talk about. And if we start with justice, we have to say that the rule of law must become the principle of our lives. Human freedom, the right to life, the right to freedom of expression, the right to everything that is given to human beings, everything must be supported by all state institutions. And if we're talking about justice, we have to talk about equality and inequality. Of course, in a certain part of their life, all humans are unequal because they have different abilities, they have different professional, intellectual qualities. But there is an inequality that cannot be allowed in our lives under any circumstances. And I want to start with the inequality of children at birth, this is the highest injustice in Ukraine today. When a child is born, his successful course cannot be explained by his family’s lack of wealth or achievements. If a child is born, no matter how successful or unsuccessful a family is, we must open an equal life for each child. What does this have to do with anything? This is certainly linked to the determination of the government of all the necessary financial organizational provisions for the child’s life. And you remember that the program that was proposed by our President during the election began with the need to increase the support of mothers ten times during the birth of a child. And believe that this will be our first priority in the work of our government. Because when a child is born, he needs to know what he has to learn, what he has to get what he needs for his life. And that would be the first philosophy of justice. I can also tell you that it's not very fair when people who move in their way, someone goes into business, someone goes to build something in the workplace as a hired worker. But the thing is, people who own businesses can make a great deal of money, and people who are hired workers, they put their whole lives into businesses, they put their whole lives into making profits, but their income is very, very limited in wages. And no matter what they do, they will never earn again, even if they spend 24 hours a day. And so as justice, we have to give a man a chance, if he's a hired worker, to get a decent salary for his work. This also applies to share payments, this applies to the payment of the share of the profits of the company, this also applies to a decent wage. And I'd like us to stop talking about minimum levels of living here. Because we push people to poverty and we try to provide it. Our goal is to create all conditions for a decent and decent life. Of course, the quality of justice is an integral part of justice. And it begins with the fact that the courts must be independent, that the courts must be honest, and that they must be uncorrupted. We know with you, unfortunately, that today we can't put a plus sign on every such quality. And we're going to have to work very hard to get the quality of our courts, our justice, to reach the level when people know they can come. And therefore, having the task of building a quality system of justice because there can be no bad or good system, either justice or it is, or it is not. We'll make it happen. But there is still a question of human access to the justice system, which is an even more important component. You know that a person who goes to court has to pay some money to have access to a court case. It's beautiful. The courts get some financial support, but, well, if we have the very poor, the poor, and maybe even the homeless person can't go to court, if we don't have that money, then what are we doing with you, and how are we building justice? You know that access to justice starts with a person having to have money to hire a decent lawyer, and we know that 80 percent of the people in Ukraine today are unable to financially secure their access to defence in courts, that is, legal services. And we're going to make sure that access is made. I know that an integral part of justice in the country is also overcoming deep, I would even say, the mare corruption that has overtaken all of our society, which is in every cell. And today, people at all political meetings ask one question: When are we going to get rid of this disgraceful and life - threatening phenomenon? I think we'll get rid of it and get rid of it. First of all, we're going to destroy the corrupt vertical. You know, when they were collecting money for corruption downstairs, they were raised to the level of senior officials, and it was good because they were covering each other up. We're not going to have that kind of vertical. We started to destroy it from the government, from the governors, from the power structures that would not keep the transmission of envelopes in place. By the way, sometimes it's not envelopes, sometimes it's suitcases. So the first is the absence of a corrupt vertical. The other one. We're going to connect with society, systematize and make a black register for which people are forced to pay bribes. And this is going to be our battle map. We'll walk through every such signal, and we'll set up a system so that corruption won't live in Ukraine. And I can tell you that there's always something to bribe an official for. We're going to examine completely and thoroughly all the permits, the help, all the licenses and other functions of the officials that they bribe. And I can convince you that at least 60 percent of these officials' rights are completely artificial just to be able to make congregations all over the country in their own pockets. But on the other hand, we have to think about the fact that if we officials at all levels are deprived of the possibility of taking bribes, what will they live for? I'm going to tell you that when we talked to the governors and the government officials who proposed for these positions, they were told that they had a number of strong demands. The first is no business connection, the second is no business lobbying, and the third is no bribe, and the fourth is professionalism. First, morality, then professionalism. They asked the logical question that it was decided to work for civil servants. I can tell you that we also have to make a decent pay system for officials so that they don't have to go to our citizens' pockets. And that's why we're going to fight corruption deep and systematicly. And this is our part of building justice in Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm begging you. Dear friends, chapter three of the program is also a very unusual name. This chapter is called Harmony, and it's not surprising that this refers to the attitude of the state, the people and the place of the state in society, because under no circumstances do we want to leave the state as the authority of human rule, the function of gendarmerie over human beings, the function of coercion and humiliation of human beings. We want to radically change the role of power in society. And to start, I think we need a major function that the state has to perform. This function is, in our view, exclusively in harmonising relationships in society. The first thing we will do is we will establish a direct and effective relationship of power with society. Today, this connection is not complete. The information provided by humans is not systematized, it is not analysed, it is not broken down into systemic conflicts. And that's why all the conflicts that live in society -- in the soul of man, in the relationship between man and state -- they all stay preserved. We want the authorities, the state, to play the role of the highest harmonizer in society, to understand the conflict that is in society, to build the concept of a way out of this conflict and to consolidate it with normative documents. And that's why the state won't do anything by hand, it won't be a rapist -- it'll open the way, harmonise the relationship, and build systems, not direct control. The second goal that we have before us is to divide power and business, to divide power and capital. And you admit that today it's not just Ukrainian. And I would like us to have this political decision to offer to ourselves, and the world's motto is not to divide business and power, but deep, systemic action. Today, it is said that in Ukraine, the government generates profits from business, and the business, on account of these profits, leads to the power of its politicians. This vicious circle must certainly be broken. [[Applause]] It's said that we have power and capital in the state today, and we have Siamese twins who have grown all the internal organs: we have a common liver, we have a common stomach, and we share all the other organs below. Thus, the case of Siamese twins is thought to be inoperable. What if we tried to divide it, both of them would die? Nothing like that. I can tell you how a person who worked both in business and in the government can operate so that they both remain alive, working, and even one of these parts is only one profitable. And that's why I want to go to business so that you don't have the feeling that if the black doors in the black corridors of power are closed and it's impossible to go into power, it's a violation of all hopes, expectations and business. Nothing like that. The government will help you at every turn, but not individually, but by creating the only rules for all. And you will see this and you will be sure that there will be no exceptions to this rule. The question is that the state still acts as a government. As a result of the Soviet times, we may have had some unpleasant results, but we have also received huge government property, which unfortunately we have not been able to manage. It was so big our economic financial start that we just stupidly lost and dissolved in corruption. And I think we need to rethink the role of the state in ownership. For some reason, there is such a tradition that everything that lives must be privatized without a remnant. I want to tell you that this concept, first of all, is obsolete in the world, because in the world since the early 19s, private ownership has been 6-7 percent of the country's total market property, capitalist, civilized, as they say. And today, the same market developed countries in Europe have between 20 and 35 percent of state property in their common property system. And that means that the equality of ownership forms is private and national -- it's absolutely obvious, and it's very different from the efficiency of governance. It is said that government property cannot be managed qualitatively. That's bullshit. This is when there is corruption, when there is a mutual link between business and power, and if there is a proper organization of governance, there is no question that state-owned enterprises, especially I emphasize, monopolies, bring large revenues into the budget, and are part of civilised property in Ukraine. And that's why I want to tell you that the goal of the government is, on the one hand, to fully support private property, to free it from any illegal, illegal influence from power, to open all ways to invest. But on the other hand, we're going to build extremely efficient systems of government ownership, because we're going to divide ownership and governance. And the state for all powerful state-owned enterprises will not be able to agree in the towers who will be the leaders of the monopolies, and we will have an open, highly professionally organized tender between the management teams, which will show just two indicators: how much revenue this state-owned enterprise will have, and what percentage of that profit will go to the world to pay for the work of these managers. I mean, you don't have to steal anything. If there are teams that want and know how to run monopolies, please get some revenue as your income, but give everything to the other state. And we won't let any more looting. I want you to know that, literally, from the first days of government work for all without excluding state monopolies, there will be a requirement to approve the budget for the existence of a state monopoly, where there will be a clear definition of revenue, where expenditure will be clearly defined, and all that material and technical resources will be purchased for the existence of a monopoly will be purchased, not on artificial underground tenders, but on the real ones that are open to the involvement of all possible suppliers. I'm going to monitor this personally, and you're going to see that government monopolies can increase the budget by 30 percent or more of their income. And none of these monopolies will pay for shadow schemes. Next, there's some stakes in every once-in-a-lifetime state-owned enterprise, but these state-owned stakes are totally illegal, unsecured by dividends, these state-owned shares are not being served at all, so we want to give birth to a qualitative function of state ownership and ownership in joint ventures of shared property, and I know that the state will receive full dividends for these percentages and that this will become a profitable part of our execution. So I would also like to draw attention to the state's function of protecting budgetary revenue, of course we are rebuilding the budget area, and we will certainly make it transparent and clear. The budget will have, not mindless and stupid expenditure articles, but software targets that will be provided. And behind every software goal and programme line in the budget will be a deep conceptual program for rebuilding our lives. And that means that the budget will get a completely different philosophy of construction. But in order for the budget to be filled, there is still an ingredient such as import, the border and their full transparency, the full transparency of our borders. When borders do not protect against smuggling, when they do not protect the proceeds of our public execution. I know what is and is beating up the impression that it is impossible to overcome such a phenomenon as smuggling, that it is impossible for all goods crossing the border of Ukraine to be taxed to the fullest extent. I can tell you that it's not just possible, it's real, and in very short terms, it wasn't just because it wasn't meant to be. There'll be no corruption on our borders, there'll be no payout, there'll be no corruption, and there'll be real revenue in the budget. And I would also like to say about fiscal policy that we're finally going to do this so that the division of government central and regional powers is going to be very smartly built. And our regions will get not only formal legal rights, but all their rights will be supported by serious financial flows, because the stability of the regions is a very important part of our lives. I can say that the state will perform a very high-quality protection function for those who need such protection. It's about retirement, it's about the state having to protect those people who don't have enough income for their lives. And if we're talking about pension reform, you know, we've adopted laws that are hard enough for Ukraine's budget for pension insurance. And in a few weeks as a new government, we'll be able to give you a clear and honest explanation that we'll be able to provide in terms of budget coming and what not. And let's make it so clear to the pensioners that they have no doubt that our goal is a constant non-acquisitional increase in the human pension. And actually, if we're talking about the philosophy of our Action Programme, I want to talk about the philosophy of retirement. And philosophy is that if a person worked his whole life, got a certain salary, spent his whole life spending on a period when he was no longer able to work, and our vision is that when a person retires, he has to get essentially no less than when he was working. Why? Because we don't banish people into begging. And we want a lifetime of human life to ensure no worse standard of living after the job is done. And this philosophy is going to be put into the essence of all pension reconstructions. The second ingredient is the absolute distribution of pensions per period that a person has, under the difficult conditions in which he has worked. And you're going to have different pensions depending on what grade she had. Because when we all retired, we practically put together a policy of balancing everything and everything. This is unfair. Oh, right. Pensions aren't going to change, because we're going to reduce someone, but we're going to do a gradation. No, it's not. We're just going to raise pensions. It is also about individual pensions of government officials. You know that among the people of Ukraine there is a great resonance in some injustice and inequality with regard to the pensions that officials receive, and the pensions that people who never had government rank receive. I can tell you that justice must be restored here too. But again, not because of the loss of employees of any component pension, but because of the fact that the total pension is going to be carried out at a completely different level. And in addition, we're going to make every effort to ensure that the pension from this general solidarity system, when everyone drops into a general boiler, and then they don't know what they're going to get, goes into a personalized accumulation of pensions in human accounts. So that a person can manage these funds as he sees fit when his retirement age comes. And there's a lot that the state can do for the social protection of motherhood, childhood, disabled people. And I think those programs, they're going to be effective, they're going to be workable. The next chapter of the program is called Life. We meant that everything that relates to a person’s material life, everything that involves not feeling any violence and coercion, but feeling the open way, will be put in our actions, in the actions of the new government. And we'll start again with the birth of the baby. And our concept is that when a child is born, it will definitely have financial security from the state to have access to all levels of education. As for education, it has to start not at seven or eight years old, but it has to start practically from the birth of a child, because we literally have to give our children a wonderful education from the nursery. You know, there's been a lot of talk about getting us back into ten-year education, going back to the five-ball system. We're going to take a deep look at these ways of building an education evaluation. But the main thing I can tell you is that equality of access for all children to education at all levels will be absolutely ensured in Ukraine. And our children will not suffer from lack of funds if they want to study in higher education institutions. You know, we have this general realization that the quality of our education is one of the best in the world. I want to disappoint you a little bit. In fact, that is no longer the case. And today the quality of our education is constantly lost. We must do everything we can to restore this glory to the highest quality of education, and we will do so. And I think we need, first of all, to ensure the financial existence of all of our schools. We're going to make the salary in our educations not a beggar at all, it's going to be worthy. Our schools will be equipped at a higher level with the word that exists in the world. We'll do it. But the question is that we have children who have beautiful quality education cannot find their place in life. You know, today's job issue is the hottest, the question of work that's not solved today, we're going to solve it. And so the question that went on to all the politicians during the election campaign was, how are you going to create jobs, how are you going to ensure people's jobs? And here we have a very clear program. First of all, at the first meeting, all district governors will be given the task of carrying out practical inventory in their areas of non-working enterprises. It was not a very good tradition for us to be privatized by all the tops of the best, most high-quality, most attractive businesses. Everything else just got thrown away. And today we have hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of enterprises that don't work. So this inventory, it's going to be done for each individual enterprise, it's going to be a work program, if this enterprise is a viable enterprise, and if it's competitive, it's going to get a boost to its development. But the main jobs of the place are in a completely different plane -- the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And I want all the people who are going to do their small and small business to hear right now that we're going to open up opportunities for them to get start-up capital to get the necessary advice on setting up business plans. We're going to completely simplify the entire registration of new businesses and make it possible for people who start working to have a clear and clear path and support from the state. The regulatory policy to be pursued by the State will aim at reducing all obstacles to small and medium-sized enterprises. I know that a person’s life is related not only to work but also to the sphere of life. We're going to be reforming the residential sector, which is in a recession that's just not being commented on anymore. We'll do everything we can to get people access to housing. Long - term loans will be granted to young families and those in need today. And I'm convinced that the honesty of the government in opening up all the possibilities to equip a person's life will be complete and that the profession will be sufficient. The next chapter of the program is "Safety." And with regard to security, this is certainly related to the security of our country. And I would like us to start with what we've finally honestly determined where our real threats are in the world, because all of our defense doctrines are completely inadequate to the threats that exist today for Ukraine in the world. And I think that threats like this aren't serious enough for Ukraine to have a large army and be set up for aggression. Our army will be rebuilt to the full. It will be based on professional principles. The term of service in the army will be reduced. And I think the army will also be very and very careful to treat those who leave the army, and social protection will be sufficient. And the last chapter of the program. It refers to the topic of Ukraine’s position in the world. And it's called "The World." I am convinced that after all the events that have taken place in Ukraine, Ukraine has enormous opportunities to take a decent place in the world. Ukraine has always been asked alternative questions, "Where are you with? Are you with Russia, are you with Europe, or are you with other countries?" And that was the most important issue that was discussed during the elections. And I now firmly want to say that Ukraine and Russia, the relationship between Ukraine and Russia will be partnered, effective, and they will be fully in line with the interests of both countries. I know there are differences around the only economic space today. I know that today there are some different thoughts about the work of the SND. But I know that Ukraine will find a decent place even in these directions. And there was a proposal that if we want to build qualitatively all processes that are not discriminatory in terms of Ukraine, Ukraine has to lead these processes and make the free trade area complete with Russia, so that we don't have any exclusions and restrictions, so that all of our partnerships in building a joint fuel and energy complex are built on mutually beneficial and mutually effective relationships. I know that with Ukraine, and our President's visit to Ukraine first, it will be certain. to Russia, I'm sorry, that's why it was a sign that Russia is our first and priority partner. But our path is with you in Europe, and that is why we must adopt an updated national strategy for Ukraine's European integration, create a foundation for Ukraine's full membership in the European Union, and form a stable pro-European majority in society. But you and I know very well that during the elections, our society's Presidential programmes were a little bit divided into two parts, and so our move to the European Union, and our integration, which we have planned with you as the main and leading, must begin with a deep open debate, so that all the fears and phobias that are born in our country, so that they can all be overcome, and people understand all our wonderful privileges for Ukraine when we join the European Union. And I know that Ukraine will pass this path quickly and with dignity. Dear friends! In fact, there are so many problems in Ukraine that the government program can report both an hour and a half and two, but I don't want to overload you. I just want to say that this program is a real faith in the irreversibility of our progress, the ultimate awakening of social energy, creative potential, and a high civil position. We have a very difficult mission ahead of us, but it's a wonderful mission -- our tireless work, our collective effort to lay down the principles of prosperity and well-being for our children and grandchildren to gain a new Ukraine. In its activities, the Cabinet of Ministers looks forward to a solid responsibility with the Supreme Council. And when I ask you to support today not only the Prime Minister's candidacy, but also the program, I want to tell you that this program will continue with the deep development of the Prime Minister's agenda. All your comments and suggestions will be taken into account in the government’s first steps. We'll discuss them with the committees, and we'll work with you together. And I know that this program will be complemented by your beautiful proposals and will be real and effective for Ukraine. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Report completed. Please sign up for the question. On the board are the names of the national deputies who are registered, please explain. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine, please. 45 minutes, respectable colleagues, as agreed. I, my honourable colleagues, ask you not to deny that we will continue our work until the issue is resolved. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u86	I am convinced that you will receive Parliament's consent to an appointment, and I am convinced that much of what you have said will be done by the government under your leadership. But I didn't see anything in your report about the environment and the environmental situation. Whether the government will be reformed to create an integrated one. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm natural resources and will this work be one of the priorities at a time when the ecosystem management system is actually dominant in the European Union, because this is one of the directions of European integration itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u87	Of course, going into 30 minutes and reporting on all aspects of Ukraine's life, how they're going to reform is impossible, but all the questions that you've raised right now, in terms of ecology, management of natural resources, everything about ensuring a quality human life in terms of ecology, they're reflected in the program, and they're going to be carried out, which is not a declaration. Because we have environmental programs, it's just, there's so much. Our task is to select 5-6 directions and make them real for execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u88	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u89	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I have 1,000 questions for you, but I have to give my word to my colleague Leonid Ivanovich Grac right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u90	Leonid Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u91	Thank you, Sergei Ivanovich. Dear Yulia Vladimirovna, we are indeed today and yesterday, and it is not very desirable that all of us continue to live tomorrow: rich and poor and thieves and honest and bandits and victims and small and old, at a time that is clearly defined by the poet: "We live in a time when the lie rises on the signs and the truth melts in the dust." Why am I talking about this? Because the banners of the winners are the slogan of the fight against corruption. Since I have very little time, I want to tell you one thing: there's a test.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u92	Please, 10 seconds, one minute, 10 seconds to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u93	The test is that if you become a minister, I mean a health mafia that destroys an honest man in Crimea and the entire medical community, make sure that he doesn't fit in there now or settle what he's done -- that's what's going to be the first step towards fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u94	I'm asking you, this is an extremely specific question that just needs to know information. I ask you after all the procedures in Parliament, please come to the government, and we will discuss in detail what is the issue and what is the problem. And in general, I want to address all the deputies. Each of you is the bearer of a certain part of people’s trust in society. I want them to know that the government door will always be open to MPs to solve your problems. And we'll make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u95	Larine, faction of the Ukraine region. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u96	Please give the floor to the Landik MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u97	Landik, please, microphone. Valentin Landik, microphone, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u98	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I represent the North Group. I'm sitting right next to you. I'm a representative of the Nord Group, the most powerful group in the former Soviet Union for the production of complex household technology. Today you said beautifully in your "Faith." Justice. Harmony. Life. Security." Of course, it's beautiful. But I am. And they said for God. I want to say to Aristotle, "without faith in God, there is no state." I get it. And yet, as Victor Andriyovich said, I'm willing to extend your hand, and here, where it says "permanent development," as Mr. Hare has said, and it's written all the way out of the crisis. If you take, but there are some brands there, if you don't get offended, come on, I'm stretching your hand out of business and let's work together then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u99	Thank you for the extended hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u100	Do it now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u101	I thank you for your extended hand and I think right after all the procedures have been completed and a few days later, I think that the new government and business, business representatives need to gather and figure out how to build a just life in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u102	Sergey Ratushnyak, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u103	Dear Julia Volodymyr, I address you and President Viktor Andryovich. Please tell me, will your slogan of transparency and openness be completed by the end of the day, for example today? I propose to announce before you vote the composition of the government and by the names of the heads of the district administrations. I want to find out for myself and society whether the bandit who stole the Zakartat region for two years, from 1999 to 2001, will now be represented by the governor or not? And will the Banditham Prison slogan be replaced by a slogan called Banditham Governor's Seats? To make a conscious choice for me in voting for your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u104	Yes, indeed, the new authorities are doing a lot of new things to begin with by literally assigning the personnel. And that's why Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, as Ukraine's new president for the first time, for all of our independence, declared that he would publicly, transparently declare in Parliament both the composition of the government and the composition of the entire governing body. And this is his decision so that you have no doubt that something cool is being done. And I can tell you that by procedure you cannot assign new ministers and no new heads of district administrations until you have a full prime minister. Because under the Constitution, the Prime Minister gives the appointment of ministers and governors. And that's why you're going to have to, whatever you want, first deal with the Prime Minister's candidacy, then the President of the country will announce the entire staffing structure, and then after the procedure, we'll go to the first meeting of the solemn government, where all the heads of factions will be present, there'll be a government, the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the media, and there'll be a government program. And it will be put to the vote in the hall after a brief recess. That's what the procedure will look like. But with regard to the quality of the personnel assignments, I would like to say to Mr. Sergei, who was just asking questions, if you think that people who went to the official olympus all their way, including the national deputies, all without excluding the angel, including you, I think it's just gonna be a lie, because all people have gone their way, and man, she and she have a sign that every human being has some kind of sin. The problem is, what will new officials do in their positions? And here I can tell you for sure that the first point will be the morals of the government. And even if any of you have questions about personnel assignments, let's put these questions out in three or four months of work, and when you have real facts that government officials are violating the code of moral honor of an official. And then I'm going to be the first person to apply for the release of those officials who have claims. For the time being, let us not despise those who are just beginning their governmental course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u105	Thank you, Your Honor. Now Singeruk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u106	Please pass the word to John Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u107	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u108	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I have two questions. According to changes in the Constitution adopted by the Supreme Council, the government is in charge of the newly elected Supreme Council, that is, in fact, one year from now. Have you not discussed a five - year term or are you simply hoping that the government will succeed, that the new deputies will similarly support it? That's the first question. And the second. Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko won with the support of the Socialists. It was a premeditated agreement signed by Alexander Alexander Moroz on November 6th last year. Do you guarantee, as head of government, the government's work to guide the implementation of this agreement in its entirety, namely: employment, minimum wage and pension, no less living, education and medicine at state expense, political reform, changes in the system of power, withdrawal of military personnel from Iraq?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u109	Everything? Well, first of all, we have a change to the Constitution, and the current Constitution is five years. The president proposed a "Sociality" program, and the president was elected by the people. And today, the President invites, hires a government, appoints decrees to carry out the program that society has supported. And that's why the philosophy of the program is five years, because the government program is practically a continuation and detail of the president's program. And as for the government's power of attorney in a year, well, believe me, our government will work qualitatively and so clearly that we can count on it that we will confirm our mandate in a year. And this, I think, is going to be completely real. [[Applause]] With regard to constitutional changes, all the agreements signed by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, will be held by the government. And that's where I can put the dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u110	Yes, after a dot, Igor Mikhailovich Shurma has a question. Please, the faction of the SDPO(s).
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u111	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I will not do evil, I will tell you the truth: I will not vote for you today. But I'm going to ask you two questions that might change my perspective in the future. First of all, please tell me how you feel about the introduction of insurance in Ukraine, your attitude towards the general public social insurance policy. That's the first question. Second, today we have witnessed the great money that you have offered. So today, power is going to be completely different. Please tell me, are those Ukrainian national deputies ready to be appointed today, so when they sign an appropriate decree on their appointment, in the form of a new innovation of their democracy, to write their applications for plenipotentiaries? It's really going to be new. Is this team ready for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u112	Well, with regard to health care, the government will certainly reform the health system very deeply. Our goal is to ensure that, regardless of man’s financial situation, he or she has full access to all health services. This will be done, first, through the provision and development of a first list of services that will be provided free of charge to every citizen. The second is insurance medicine, which will ensure the full and immediate provision of medical services to every citizen in Ukraine. And the agreement signed with Alexander Frost: that every human being will be fully provided with health care — it will also be implemented. As for deputizing myself as an MP, I'm going to start with myself. Right after you vote for me as Prime Minister, I will immediately remove the authority in your presence. And I think all government officials will do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u113	Orestes Dmitrovich Klimpush, faction of the "One Ukraine" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u114	But I hope you can change your mind and vote in favour. This will be a wonderful sign of our union.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u115	Julia Volodymyrna, already one voice plus, apparently, there is. Oreste Dmitrovich Klimpus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Julia Volodymyrical, like most of my colleagues, I generally take your speech very positively. But after a limited period of time, I understand that you have not managed to stop and explain the important foundations of modern society, such as energy composition, as a food ingredient, as a transport component. I'd like you to do that. And also, what is your attitude toward responsibilities, do you see the responsibility of the State — first and foremost — to provide support to such depressed regions as the mountainous regions of Carpathian, which I am representing in Parliament? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u117	Well, frankly, if you were willing to listen to me for another hour, I would definitely tell you that Ukraine has a unique quality: it is a transit state. And with regard to our transit capabilities, we're going to start by giving very serious attention to the diversification of all of Ukraine's energy carriers, the supply of all of Ukraine's energy carriers. I can tell you that the construction of new gas transport, oil transport corridors for Ukraine has been restrained solely by political decisions and circumstances. But this had a negative impact on the economy of Ukraine. I guarantee you that our government will start carrying out major projects of global importance for the construction of gas-, oil-transport highways. That's the first one. With regard to the roadside component, we will not miss anything here, and we think that the sign that will be linked to the term of the new President’s rule and the government’s work will be due to the birth in Ukraine of quality, high - quality road transit highways. And a lot of other things that can be done by the government. But I think we just have to rely on government officials and keep a close eye on what they're doing. And if you're unhappy, you can always say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u118	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u119	Please give the floor to the well-known national deputy, Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u120	Please, Valentin Teeth, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u121	Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich. Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block faction, Batkivščina Party. Dear Julia Vladimirovna! Many analysts pointed out that as the Acting Prime Minister, one of the first meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers was devoted to the agro-industry complex. Given 2 circumstances, what, first, Ukraine today represents an agro-industry country and given the fact that the village is in an extremely difficult situation today, will you continue to pay close attention to the problems of agricultural production in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u122	Yes, it certainly is, for without it it is impossible to organize the life of our country. And I'm telling you honestly, I didn't plan on forming a new government to hold any serious government councils. But as you know, we've been starting a new phase of agrarian problems since January. And I can say that the meeting went well. And today we have with you all the expectations that Ukraine will receive a beautiful harvest. And that's what's confirmed by all the statistics. As for politics in the agrarian complex, we need to start with land issues. And our deep belief that property on agricultural land must be with Ukrainian citizens who live and, above all, work on this earth, so that we, do not give God, do not give birth to mindfulness, domination, and everything else in the country’s land relations. I think we can stick to this line. The other one. Our absolute goal is to allocate the most efficient, the best farms that work in an agrarian complex and to provide a system to the full for efficient financing of agrarian enterprises. Because most of all, it's funding, so it's not done, because in our agriculture, every loan is taken away from the last technique. The technique and everything they can place on the mortgage is completely misjudged. The rating is given 5 to 7 times below, which prevents full access to credit resources. Therefore, the amount that peasants can place on bail does not provide enough money for the quality of the land. We agreed on this meeting, as we take these problems down, and how we open up a real, full flow of financial resources, and the state will, as always, take on interest either entirely or partially after the repayment of these loans and at the cost of these loans. So this direction is going to work. Third warehouse. Clearly, the agricultural sector needs attention in balancing price policies. And we know that all the middlemen who destroyed the economy of agrarian enterprises that were selling at three prices, and they took practically all the crops -- it's definitely going to be over. And we will make direct access to the finances of those who directly process the land. I am convinced that we, in order to make agriculture fully aggregate, have to pay particular and very professional attention to the processing of agricultural products. Because only full processing and financing can make the agrarian sector completely inclusive. And I will definitely do this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u123	Victor Drachewski, Democratic Initiative MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u124	The Agrarian faction shakes, so she said something right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u125	Victor Drachewski, Democratic Ukraine MP. Dear Julia Vladimirovn, I am here, Julia Vladimirovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u126	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u127	I want to ask you one question, I have listened very carefully to the Government's programme, and in this regard I would like to repeat the following: The Government is ready to support those regions where settlements that live around nuclear power plants, because they have believed for 14 years that the previous Government will do so, have rightly believed that life is there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u128	One of the functions of the state, one of the functions of power is the intelligent redistribution of budget money, and I think we are for those regions that are depressed, which are environmentally disadvantaged, we will certainly do the programs that protect and raise these areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u129	Please, Mikola Onichtuk, the People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u130	Mikola Onischuk, MP's People's Will. By the way, I'll start with the people. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, many citizens, I think, millions of Ukrainian citizens who have listened to your speech have heard the answers to their long-standing expectations and I hope, including, that these expectations will be met. And I'm convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament will support its people today, and this is how it will vote for your support for consent. My question concerns the following. I know that you share my view that the face of the state is not just the organized cabinets of high officials, but above all the cabinets of the Ukrainian courts, especially the local courts. Please tell the government if it is ready to offer Ukraine and, in particular, the Ukrainian Parliament a State Program for Building and Reconstruction of Buildings for Local Courts, Especially Rural Areas, Remote Areas, because there is essentially That's where millions of citizens come in?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u131	I think the government has always been ready to meet the courts on their terms. But the main question is, will we build beautiful cabinets for those courts that lack justice? So, of course, by supporting the administration of the courts, certainly creating this as a separate expense in our budget, I would like us to start all our actions in the legal sphere, in reforming the legal system from the birth of justice, from the birth of honest, uncorrupted, responsible courts that do just justice. And then the cabinets will be beautiful, and I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u132	Please, Vasil Gavriluk, "Centre" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u133	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I can't see here. A group of shoulder pals have been shut down. Julia Vladimirovna, you know what we have, will come back, was a bad practice when either the Banking President of Ukraine or the Prime Minister came to Parliament and said: this is a document that needs to be adopted urgently. As such, there was no time, no full programme rules had been violated, as a result of conviction, or perhaps some documents had been adopted through the knee. I would like to ask you what will be the practice of the Government's work with the Supreme Council of Ukraine now? Whether we eradicate this bad practice and consider the deputies to be serious people who have a point of view and never jump to a button-buttoner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u134	Well, first of all, what I can't really promise you, I can't promise. It's a relaxation in our work together. I don't think we're going to have time to spend months running the most urgent laws for the people of Ukraine, and we need laws. And that's why, not by lowering the dynamics, but with full respect for the MP's opinion, with full consolidation in the design of concepts and laws. And we better combine our efforts between the government and the committees at the drafting stage than then, as you say, break through the knee. I think we're going to have a wonderful, effective collaboration with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u135	Please, Victor Bunny, NDP-Republic faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u136	Victor Zaichko, 225 constituency, town of Sevastopol. Dear Julia Vladimirovna. I would like to ask you a question from the philosophy of justice. I support and share everything you haven't told me, but it's philosophical truth. However, my question is as follows. Do you believe that, in 14 years, the time has come to eliminate another zone, the zone today that limits the rights of the civilian voters of the Sewastopols? The governors will be appointed in this room today. And a city that will be determined today without the opinion of its inhabitants. I'd like to suggest that we be in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u137	Ten seconds, please finish the question. Please, 10 seconds. We're tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u138	I would like you to support our work to restore the right of sevastopols to the European Charter and the Law on Local Self-Government today to choose their own head, which will be directly involved in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u139	I just want to let you know that administrative-territorial reform, all it has to do with it, including the question that you're asking, is a question for which one special vice prime minister will be appointed. And I want us to decide all the questions you're worried about, worry Sevastopol, in the normal order of things. I support head selection, I conceptually support it. But to do that, we need to go through some stage of change before the legislation, before the conceptual discussion of this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u140	Alexander Volkov, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u141	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm here. Julia Volodymyrna, thank you for the unusual, unlike previous government programs. I believe in you, and I ask you to pass the word to the national deputy Shufrich. Suškević, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u142	I'm asking you to pass the word to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u143	Who? Who? Yes, Peter Kachur, please, your question, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u144	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Julia Volodymyr is, of course, a broadcast today, and millions of people not only by the television sets but also by the radios of most of the theses are applauding along with the session hall. But here's the question. It is evident that such major tasks that have been assigned today require a completely different management team. I have a question: tell me, what will be done to get young people, with a completely different level of professional and managerial knowledge, and especially at the level of district government? And the second question. You know, the principles of the budget code worked for two or three years, today you're back to the old practice where authorizations are accepted at the center, and their implementation is transferred to the region without proper funding. I'd like you to give a clear answer and a signal to all the regions that are fiscal policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u145	Well, as for young, professional personnel who have to work in Ukraine, you know very well that the human resources system was practically destroyed in Ukraine, that we didn't have a systematic selection of talented people at school level, then watching them at the level of higher education and creating a powerful human resource. That's what it was, but we're definitely gonna start it. But I think that the government that Victor Andryovich Yushchenko is proposing today as the new president of Ukraine will already meet that requirement you're talking about. And I think the average age of government officials that are going to be offered is going to be about 18 years old. Everything will be fine with the new government. With regard to fiscal policy, what must we do? First, clearly define and divide the authorization of two levels -- central and regional. After that clear budget allocation, the budget transfers we have to ensure full powers that will be passed on to the regional level, the imbalance here definitely cannot be. But it will continue to be accompanied by more and more delegation of most authority to the region. So for a regional government, for local self-government, we have everything: both the political will to transfer authority, and the money in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u146	Sergey Chelnokov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u147	Dear Julia Vladimirovna! We have now listened very carefully to the fantasies of an attractive woman. They're interesting enough for their genre. But tell me, when can we hear the Government's programme of work, a programme that can be measured in real terms, and not only in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u148	Well, you know, we do. This is the Communist faction of Ukraine, and I have great respect for the MPs of the Communist People's faction. You know, I want to mention five-year plans that were made during the Soviet Union. These were wonderful plans, with millions of figures. But our citizens stood in huge queues and bought the products they needed in order to produce what was planned but unnecessary for the Soviet industry. You know, I think that the figures that were echoed in the previous government programs were such that they wouldn't be buttered for bread. We had better and better numbers, and people's lives were getting worse and worse. So I wanted to change this tradition today. At last, I wanted the government to begin with the philosophy of its approach to the matter. And the numbers that are born without destroying philosophy will be figures that will only say that we are living a wonderful life. And we won't have a problem with the numbers. We've got the Mineconomy, we've got the Derzkomstat, who's going to take all of this into account. And a figure can't be at the core of a society -- just a true vision of how to build systems and proportions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u149	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u150	Julia Vladimirovna, what do you mean by "enhancing regional autonomy"? What do you mean, "disengagement"? And the social area of food: the rural road, the rural hospital, the rural school. We believe that today you must tell the whole country that no rural school will be closed. And a purely protective problem is financing the construction of bridges across the Dnieper River.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u151	I would like to emphasize once again that today the President and the proposals of the future government were to change the approach to the definition of vice-prime ministers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in our government there will be no vice-president: there will be a vice-premier on matters of Eurointegration, there will be a vice-premier on administrative reform and a vice-premier on the humanitarian and social sphere of everything that relates to human life. And I would like to point out that as a priority, the direction of administrative-territorial reform has been chosen to ensure that we don't have a village or an area, but there is no infrastructure that provides income to the region's budget, for example, that we have more than enough. We want to make budgetary arrangements for all conditions in regions with territorial divisions. That's the first one. We want to make sure that each region has full financial security and more local tax collection, with less reliance on transfers. We think we're going to do everything politically to strengthen the power of the regions. Including Zaporozhye. And I also want to say that rural schools will not close if they have children. We'll open it if we're stuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u152	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u153	Well, here's the MPs from the agrarian faction say it's their job to have kids in schools. I mean, the kids will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u154	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, Mikolayevščina, 133 constituency. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Surely I and our faction support the President's proposal, and we wish you success in your work so that our people, the people of Ukraine, can really feel better about life. I want to ask you what the President of Davos said on the energy system of our Ukraine that we should unite in Europe, and we, you know, we have a lot of cheap electricity, but we don't need it because we don't have quality and we haven't had a government decree since 2000, we have to build a GRES plan of 600 million, today 300 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u155	Don't you get it? Microphone, please. Make a clearer question, for it is not good enough to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u156	Questions. Are we going to build our Mikolai GRES to sell quality electricity? It takes another 250 million this year to run two turbines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u157	You know, the question of building new capacities, it's about market availability and environmental issues. If we have a market, and we have a market that is sure because there is an internal market, and we need to develop external markets for electricity exports, then the second question, ecology, very and very deep study, and if there are no fuses, why not build up. I think this project could become a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u158	Peter Petrovich Toloczko, faction of the "Only Ukraine" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u159	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! There's an item in your program that I'm very interested in. You're going to reform the National Academy of Sciences and bring it closer to industry and education. I'd like to hear how you're going to do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u160	I think that the National Academy is really the direction where we have to work together with you to understand how to do this the most powerful way not to destroy anything, but to give an exclusive benefit. And now, not only do I want to tell you this, but I want to tell all the professionals in my field that the government will not undertake any profound reform without consulting professionals and institutions that will reform. As for science, I think it's very simple. Academic science, we need to define all the directions in which Ukraine is strong in the world and where we really have a wonderful prospect of having serious results. Academic science will certainly support the state. As far as sectoral science is concerned, this is strictly a market relationship. The necessary teaching, it must be paid, and the demand must be for it. It is therefore necessary to connect as much as possible. The only thing we can't leave behind in science is artificial scientists, who in a hurry, they're doing their candidate and doctoral dissertations all the time. And when politicians try to use their ability to become scientists somewhere on the road. And the second is that we can't let science become some kind of socio-food structure that just needs social support all the time, but it doesn't make any difference. It doesn't have to be that way either. But I believe in Ukrainian science. I believe that we have directions that are unique to the world, we will all know them with you, and we will all support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u161	Igor Sharov, Democratic Ukraine Group. Yes. Sharov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u162	Yes. Suskevich, please. People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Julia Volodymyr. National Deputy Suškević, Ukrainian National Assembly of Disabled People I want to wish you health, first of all. Let's have it for you. And on behalf of the people with disabilities of Ukraine, and on behalf of myself, to express our hopes for a successful government. And I'm going to have this question about the program, the definition of the program, about the elimination of all the benefits. There is another definition of the same program for creating equal opportunities for people with special needs, including people with disabilities. What I'm saying is, isn't it going to be that the relief activity is going to be eliminated by those legislative preferences that are already providing some of these equal opportunities? This will not be the death of all the people with disabilities in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u164	I think the only thing you can't blame the new government is stupidity, and that they don't understand the new government, that socially-unprotected levels of the population, they need special attention. I think we're going to have to work with you not only on the financial support of the disabled, but also on the excellent program of creating home jobs. Because this program can give a person not only some kind of benefit but full independence in his economic life. And I think we need to think with you about how a person who, by natural or tragic consequences, has become disabled so that he doesn't lose his active place in society, but that doesn't rule out the benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u165	Constantine Zhevago, non-factionable, please. You don't? Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? Right. Boris Ilchi Oliynik, then Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, well, for the most part, during your speech, I've never once given a false smile, because just as you are a romantic and I believe in the light that some people are now fighting. I'd like to ask you this. That's what I'm talking about. I'd like to ask you this. In forming a government, I think you will remember a few Ukrainians, not just by name, but by normal Ukrainians, who remember that there are other people in the world besides them. But remember the Ukrainians. Next. You and the President have determined your optimum position that you're not going to be dissecting or anything like that. That's absolutely right, but let the legitimate organizations be punished anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u167	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u168	Well, as far as punishment is concerned, it's just the last word that came out. I want you to hear that the new government and I personally are going to power far from being a penal authority. To that end, we have legal structures that can identify all wrongdoing and take appropriate action. I know that you and I have come through a very difficult political path. During the election, there were huge oppositions that we had in mind both in society and in elites. We must take risks under hostility, divisions, and opposition. And that's right, as the MPs from the "Regions" faction said, and at the regional level, and at the elite level, stretch each other's hands. And if you look at the government's program cover, you'll see two flags -- orange and blue. These are the flags that were the symbols of the election campaign. I want you to know that we're not just going to be a government that does technical procedures, we're going to be a government of union, a government of understanding. And I want all of you and me to justify what we're doing in the East and the West and the Centre. And I'm going to follow this concept consistently.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u169	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrically. On this note, I think the time for questioning has run out. Time's up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u170	Thank you, dear friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to apply to the Secretariat for a statement from factions and MPs first, and I will grant those who have already signed up the floor the right to speak. "Democratic Ukraine." Get ready for Turkey. Forty-five minutes for a speech in accordance with the decision I have already made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u172	Dear Mr. President, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished voters, colleagues. Political and personnel regrouping will be heard and we will feel that it is time to solve problems in the back. But they are complex and difficult. I am pleased that today, in the report of Julia Volodymyrovny, the direction of the movement has been defined and that, most importantly for me, there was no firm statement that we will be building Ukraine from scratch, from a flat place, and we will continue to increase the potential of those reforms in the economy, in the social sphere. That's all that matters. The other one. I would like to say that today, if you go with the algorithm proposed by Victor Andryovich, that today was not explicitly stated in the report. In my view, it was not clear that if we were to take action by the government, what would we do with the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which for three or four years could not be accepted in the session room? Next. It was not said what will we do with the Opposition Law, which should regulate and give civilized action to the national deputies in the session room? Next. I wanted to ask you a question, but unfortunately I couldn’t. What about pricing? Julia Volodymyrna, I deeply respect you, but I do not agree with the fact that we cannot spread our philosophy as well as our letters on bread. My constituents need specifics. And I'm going to ask a lot of questions about the Government's Action Programme to determine the numbers, the boundaries that we're going to check out in 100 days of government work, and maybe in this sessionary room we're going to have a parliamentary hearing about how commitments to society are being made. Next. You were the author of not raising the price of gas, you were the author of not raising the price of bread and food. I would like a moratorium on the Government's Action Programme to be foreseen. And to conclude, let me say that our Democratic Group, Democratic Ukraine, supports President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenk's proposal and unanimously for you, Julia Volodymyrna. And I think it's a hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u173	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Alexander Turchinov from the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Get ready for Gurey's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! We have all become participants in outstanding historical events. Events that made the whole world pay attention to Ukraine. Billions of people from different countries were proud of the Ukrainian people. And many simply envied the courage and dignity of Ukrainian citizens. Today, after centuries of disappointment and disillusionment, we have been given a great opportunity to build an independent and powerful state, our own country, where truth and power will truly be, and will be. It would be very easy not to take advantage of that opportunity. We must unite around the President and support the Prime Minister's proposed candidature. The new political situation in the country, the new reality needs new people at the head of state, not just wise politicians who know how to bring about a system in our common home, but real patriots who are capable of self-sacrificing in the interests of the nation. Julia Timoshenko is exactly the kind of Ukrainian politician who can carry out the tasks facing the country and society today. She received a heavy inheritance. A multibillion dollar budget deficit, a deformed corrupt administrative system, a tinnitus economy. But it is she who can ensure that the President's program, supported by the Ukrainian people, is implemented. By voting for Julia Timoshenko, we give our votes for progress, for democracy, for global social tasks, for the country that the great Ukrainian people long deserved. In our vote for Timoshenko, we stand against infidelity, against economic collapse, against witch hunting, against crime and disorder in the country. Because today the country needs not just a new prime minister, but a politician and statesman who can unite society. We should not divide the country into right- and left-hand, left-hand and right-hand, we are the only people from Mikolayev to Ivano-Frankivsk, from Lugansk to Odessa. And today's vote should be an example of the consolidation and integration of society. We are starting to build, indeed, a European country, not by geographical indications, but by political and economic signs. And so today we need more than just to support a brave, beautiful person, we need to support a program that will form a new government. Government, I hope it's the people's trust. This is a detailed and detailed program with which the new President, who voted in favour of the Ukrainian people, won. And so, my dear colleagues, I am convinced that it is simply an obligation of the Supreme Council to support the programme voted for by millions of our citizens. Dear colleagues! I ask you to support Julia Timoshenko and the government program. In advance, I thank you for your courage and express my sincere conviction that it is together that we will form a team that will carry out the great mission that will build a real, free, independent Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u175	Basil Gureyev, faction of the will of the people. Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u176	Dear Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Reverend Julia Volodymyrna, colleague! In fact, it is not a simple time for government to replace positions, because we all understand that in society there is a high level of expectations, a high level of expectations primarily for people, industry. I want to say that by the end of 2004, at a split price rate of 12.4 percent, in total production of 24.1 percent, is a reflection on the industrial policy to be pursued by the government. That's why we've been looking at the very careful program presented by the government, the government candidates, the real economy chapters, and we've come up with a lot of questions to discuss, to improve it. First, first of all, I want to look at macroeconomic indicators, preferably in additions that are going to be worked by the government, we still have a picture of what indicators we have to come up with during the government's year of work. The second question. We agree and support that privatization should be transparent and should especially be transparent mechanisms and the work of enterprises that we already privatized we have no intentions and cannot accept that commercial houses of privatized enterprises have more efficiency than those enterprises that work today and create those benefits that are being realized by commercial houses. And I would also like to point out that the new government did decide on intellectual property is what should be taken into account whenever we privatise enterprises or research institutions. Third. Priorities in industry, in my opinion, they were and remain-- they're structural distortions. We need to understand that scientific industries need to be more involved in our real sector. There should be indicators to which we should keep coming and try to do this. Financial credit policy. First of all, industrial entrepreneurs are paying attention to the availability of credit resources, which is the main question that is becoming very important to us year after year. I want to point out, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, knowing that he's going to be one of the representatives on the economic block, is your statement, that unfortunately, the economy is short and the production cycles on our businesses are particularly machine-building long.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u177	Thank you. Alexander Alexander the Frost faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, next will be by Vladimir the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u178	Dear friends, our faction has no political motive not to support Julia Timoshenko. In 2000, we participated actively in the "Ukraine Without Couchma" campaign together. In 2002, the Communists and the Communists took part in the "Rise Ukraine!".. These political events were the few changes that led to the new quality of the social phenomenon of the so-called "morning revolution", which finally enabled people to feel freedom and expectations today should be ensured by the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Our faction and the political party supported Victor Yushchenk's candidacy for the presidency. He became President, he proposes to Julia Timoshenko for this high office of prime minister, and it would be illogical to take a step like this in the elections now, not to support Julia Volodymyr. In addition, we made this decision on the sidelines of our party, and our faction unanimously supported this candidature as well. In view of the fact that we make this decision, whether we are in power or not, we will have positions. But today, there is also a moment of choice for our political structure, and we have also made a very difficult decision to agree to become part of the power structure, because for us it is not a prize for political activity, but for us it is a responsibility and an opportunity on the right areas of work to demonstrate the effectiveness of this work in the interests of society. So I think that one and the other choices here match and I just want to have hope and conviction, based on what the prime minister's candidate says, that those commitments are shared that we signed in a contract with Victor Andrievich Yashchenk on November 6 on the social problems of wages, a pension equal to the minimum wage of a pension is not below the subsistence level. With regard to the return of savings from citizens, medicine, and education at the expense of the budget. As far as not allowing the sale of land is concerned, it was planned in the relevant laws on which the previous President supported such a line. And with regard to the withdrawal of troops from Iraq and other issues, both political and social, as well as the improvement of good relations with neighbouring countries, this will be maintained. Our faction to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u179	Vladimir Hare, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, is invited to speak. [[United]] Next will be Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u180	Honorable Society, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine On behalf of the faction of the United Social Democrats, I have to stress once again that our party, as opposed, has not discussed any issues related to the formation of a new composition of executive structures. Personnel policy is a matter of the new president, and we obviously didn't take it, and we didn't intend to take part in the distribution of new government portfolios. However, I would like to point out that the political forces that are building executive power today have not demonstrated the previously promised new principles of the formation of new power. We are now seeing a previously severely criticized opposition to the coalition government of Yanukovic, the so - called quota approach. By the way, I'd like to point out that the positions of ministers of power were not included in quotas even in that former government. Trades, threats to the opposition of the winners, estimated by the world’s winners not only by politicians but also by Ukrainian citizens, confirm that promises are only beautiful words for voters. It is clear that the exclusion of high-level owners from business and the management of party structures will also remain declarations. In determining your position with regard to the future head of government. The faction of the Social Democrats stemmed from the attitude of the prime minister's candidate to strengthen representative democracy, i.e. to introduce constitutional reform. A loyal approach to the fundamental, democratic political reform of Law 4180 on changes to the Constitution -- for us today is a fundamental criterion for assessing any political leader, assessing any political power. As we know, Julia Timoshenko has recently been assured that she intends to take account of the agreements and decisions that have been reached regarding the validity of Law 4180, and this has led to a certain correction in the way our faction treats her candidature. The United Social Democrats, in the face of a political crisis that has not yet been overcome by our Ukrainian society, have first and foremost sought to prevent the destabilization of the political situation, the clash of supporters of various candidates. Despite our very critical attitude toward the new authority, we realize that the long - term premiere poses a direct threat to the stability of the country. The economic situation of the State is deteriorating, and this makes it necessary to resuscitate the executive power as quickly as possible. So today, in this position, if the political forces that won their victory on December 26 last year think they are capable of forming an effective government and effective authority, let them prove it. We have no intention of hindering them from the approval of the Prime Minister's candidacy. Social Democrats worked in the Janukovic Cabinet, which reached high GDP growth rates, increased pensions and salaries, increased spending on education and health care. If the new government is willing to make a commitment, at least not to reduce the growth achieved and preserve the social gains of its predecessors, then it has the moral right to exist. If not, his fate will be insurmountable. Time will judge us. I have the authority to state that the faction of the Social Democrats has adopted a decision on free voting regarding the candidacy of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u181	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak. The next one will be Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u182	Respectable colleagues and respected voters. Conscious of the full responsibility of the electorate to our people, we, the Communists, have made a political decision to prevent the faction from taking part in the vote on behalf of the Prime Minister and the Government Programme, which we feel is not in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine and its citizens. In making this political decision, we were guided by the following provisions. First. The formation of Kabmin, other authorities and administrations, the establishment of a list of candidates for the governor's chairs was a culinary exercise, within the framework of a closed tender, without public discussion, taking into account professional qualifications, as well as the ability to address the most complex economic and social issues. Thus, the businessman, who seeks the seat of a public official, pursues only one goal: to protect the interests of his business. The principle that everyone on the bed, while the spoons have proved to be lacking on all oligarchs, is contrary to the President's pre-election statements and presidential declarations of openness, honesty and transparency, and is a perfectly natural and limited, organic continuation of the subversive policy of the Kuchma regime and its educators. Second. A specific programme of action for Kabmin has not been presented to meet the requirements of our citizens and to work towards the development of Ukraine. And it's common. The voting of the programme is, in our view, declarative and inconclusive, clearly liberal, where the priorities of capital prevail over the interests of people of work with all the consequences. That is, the allocation of property excesses, price increases and tariffs, the reduction of the abolition and benefits to the poor and the need for access to the rights of employees and so on. The proposed programme does not ensure a country-friendly economic and humanitarian project within a single economic space, entails a devastating economic environment in crisis, an accelerated rate of entry into the ETO and EEC, the elimination of Ukraine's off-block status and NATO accession. The programme does not provide for official status in the Russian language; it does not encourage political reform; it thus preserves the authoritarian, presidential vertical of power. In general, the proposed programme provides for the transfer of responsibility for addressing acute social problems from the State to the citizens. I mean, what we were fighting for, what we were fighting for. Therefore, we, the Communists, will not vote in favour of the Ukrainian development course proposed by the President and the Government. We Communists have a vision of the country's development strategy, the basic principles that are set out in the programme of human and human rights, the programme of approval in Ukraine, indeed, the social State, the State of real democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u183	Mikola Petrovich Kruglov from the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u184	The Honourable President of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The 2004 election process in Ukraine was completed. The people have elected a President who will exercise his authority under the functioning Constitution of Ukraine. The task of all responsible political forces, together with the President of Ukraine, is to ensure the stable development of the state and every citizen at a level not lower than that achieved before the start of the elections. Today, the appointment of the Prime Minister of the new government is taking place, which, along with the new Cabinet of Ministers, is due to implement the position of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine's electoral programme. The basic orientation of the real candidates for the Presidents was identical: raising the standard of living and the quality of life of the citizens. Differences only in forms, methods, tactics to achieve goals. Therefore, the faction of regions representing the interests and support of millions of Ukrainian citizens today sees no reason to go against the stated goals of the new executive power in the area, which coincides with the social and economic priorities of our electorate, namely, strengthening the principles of local self-government, including its economic and social base, increasing wages, pensions, other salaries, creating new jobs, providing social security for the population, available medicine, education, etc. If the activity of the new executive branch of power is aimed at narrowing the economic, social and other rights of citizens, the response of our faction will be appropriate. The faction of "Ukraine" emphasizes that we do not claim to participate in the government that is being formed today. We believe that in 2006 alone, when changes to the Constitution enter into force, political parties that receive the highest voter confidence will for the first time in the history of Ukraine form a truly national authority, both legislative and executive, both in the centre and in the regions. Then you can talk about any party or faction position. Today, both in law and in reality, it is the prerogative of the new President and no political party has been given full authority. The "Ukrainen Region" faction works and will work for the electorate by voting in Parliament, drafting socially oriented bills aimed at the formation of the Ukrainian state, increasing the well-being of everyone, protecting their rights and freedoms. We are ready for constructive cooperation at the legislative level with all the political forces, the government and its individual representatives. Our joint task is to calm society and give it a new perspective. An objective assessment will be given to all of us in this and earlier years by our voters in 2006. The majority of the people’s deputies of our faction support Julia Timoshenko’s candidacy as proposed by the President of Ukraine. We want the new government to establish effective cooperation with all regions of the state and to prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u185	National Deputy Jeremiah of the People’s Agrarian Party The next will be Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u186	Dear Viktor Andriyovich, revered Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Julia Volodymyr, colleagues and guests! As we consider giving consent to the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we must assume that the role of executive power will increase significantly over time. Today, Ukraine is a civilised state. In the background of excessive European proportions, the luxury of the narrow so - called elite. Even with the shadow component, the national product per capita in Ukraine is 4-5 times smaller than the Western European neighbours. To overcome this gap, we need to support real GDP growth rates of 15-20 percent over a decade. The political economy, the social system of Ukraine, it's like a symphony orchestra that could perform the most elaborate work, but the violinist group is playing, let's say, the Ukrainian Zaporeznik za Dunaj. Whatever Russian, for example, "Life for a King," and the shockers play at all without making sounds, shadowy performance. In addition, there are few conductors who not only wave sticks but also know the score. Real GDP in Ukraine grew by 12 percent in 2004 with 12.3 percent inflation, whereas last year it was 9.4 percent and 8.2 percent respectively. Thus, relatively high rates of economic growth should not calm the government, especially since they are caused by favourable external economics. The economic policies of the state are still not consistent, therefore contradictory, favourable to the outside and internal economic conjugation not used to achieve truly, steadily and rapidly growth. Ukraine has real opportunities for a better life. First of all, we have a great intellectual potential. Secondly, we are a large metallurgical state, and we have a full and self-sufficient production complex -- science, training. Third. In Ukraine, there are wonderful machine - building traditions. And what's particularly important here is that high-tech engineering is primarily about the development of space and aviation technology. We have developed electronics, military industries, nuclear, energy, shipbuilding, scientific and educational complexes. According to its real potential, Ukrainian land can feed 130 million people, we have everything to clean up our black lands and re-emerge Europe. The new government, in cooperation with Parliament, is obliged, I repeat, to take full advantage of those opportunities and to justify the high trust of the Ukrainian people. Our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u187	Tell us what we think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u188	Our faction supports the Prime Minister's candidature and the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u189	Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko from the faction of the People's Democratic Party, "Republic", to prepare Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u190	Dear friends! I was delighted to hear our President - Victor Andriyovich Yushchenka speak, who described a few moments and presented us with the appointment of Prime Minister. I've told every time in this rostrum that the highest position in our state, in the central executive branch, is the candidate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. But what I want to say to Victor Andriyovich is that today a lot of words have been said about corruption workers working in the executive branch and in the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to point out that not all corrupters work in executive organs and not all of them today have to fight, including the government. Why? Because I am proud of the government that I have led and today in the new government, as far as I know, will work and the First Deputy Prime Minister, Anatoly Kinach, Minister of Energy and Fuel Plats, in the presence of the Foreign Minister of that government that I led, the Widow, Tarasyuk, Guriev, Švidenko, Borzov and many others who have never gotten drunk. But I am in the interest of dealing with corruption necessarily with those who really do. So that we don't talk about officials at all about everyone and everything. So I would like our people working in the public service, both in the regions and at the center, to be treated with tolerance. It's the genetics of our state, it's the civil servants. Because I remember 1990-93 when most government officials went to work in commercial structures. Our elite, who had been raised for many years, needs to be cultivated. That's the first question. The second question about Julia Volodymyrni. I say that the public meeting with the factions has taken place and we will support you as Prime Minister of Ukraine. But I want to point out that yesterday and yesterday we watched the program committee and I'm going to lead the Committee on Construction, Transport. Housing and utilities, you see what's happening in this area in Russia and in communication. Unfortunately, there is no line on these sectors, and there are only five lines of housing and housing policy, which is not defined at all in our country and without the adoption of the Housing Code, there is absolutely no housing in our citizens. Therefore, I believe that ministers who will be assigned to positions need to study a program that says that the program has been submitted to a future government that is not yet in place today and that it will only appear after the president’s decree has been issued. All the committees went through, and they looked at which programs, they made proposals to work out, and then they took it in the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u191	Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives, prepare for Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u192	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honorary prime minister, dear colleagues. In the Ukrainian people, as in the world community, there is no doubt that with the victory of the Yushchenka in the struggle for new power, we will have a new historical era, an era that will be associated with a new type of state-created, because we have made changes to the Constitution, as well as the high expectations of the nation itself, where the new type of executive power will be the key. And the President's principles of seeing a new policy today prove once again that the confidence of Ukrainian citizens obliges us to support his position with regard to the formation of the executive power of Ukraine's government, especially that he will become an extremely important and sensitive place for the next era when, on the basis of the amended Constitution of 2006, a new coalition government will actually emerge that will form the Ukrainian Parliament. We know Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko as a person who has not yet realized her own potential to testify in this parliamentary rostrum today, offering us a philosophical and even poetic programme that has no analogues to debate, because she declares the values that should be the reason for writing a real socio-economic development programme for Ukraine. I think that this program gives us every chance to understand that Ukraine can't quickly enter Europe, and Europe, when we implement this programme, will join Ukraine. Therefore, the Democratic Initiatives MP has made a unanimous decision to support both the appointment of Parliament as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Julius Volodymyrovný Timoshenko, and to support her programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u193	Bogdan Volodymyrovich Hubski, deputy faction of the "One Ukraine" Party, has the floor for the performance. Get Michael Kosova ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u194	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable national deputies! After the election of Victor Yushchenka, president of Ukraine, people are looking forward to a change for the better. The government is the main implementing tool declared by the President of the strategy for radical social economic change. And it is the government that relies on extremely difficult and responsible work, on which the factor on which Ukraine will enter the circle of leaders of the United Europe depends. Of course, we give due devotion to the professionalism and experience of Julia Volodymyr. We know her some radicalism in making decisions. These qualities do not all work. But right now, when I break down, that's exactly the kind of quality that the heads of government need. For the first time in an independent Ukraine, the highest government office was offered to a woman. I personally think that's a very positive sign, because a woman's face with Ukrainian politics will certainly contribute to the growth of sympathy in the world of our state. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party supports the idea of creating a government of national trust, which in practice implements the ideas of honest power, cleansed of corruption free of clan oligarchi engagement. We need to, we think, introduce professional selection in general to the authorities of people who have moral principles and civic positions. I want to emphasize the importance of the moral element itself. A thief and a thief can also be a skilled professional in his business. So by permission, to say that professionals should not be in power. You need to know, as they say, finally break the criminal link between power and capital, and restore power to the person. At the same time, I would like to say that the question of the Prime Minister is not limited to a specific name. Because the government's programme of action should be based on the principles of Victor Yushchenka's electoral program. To return to the face of a simple person, this is what ideology should be, the responsibility of both government and every government. The success of the State is the success of each family, each individual citizen, in the simplest sense of the word. The ability to raise children in a dignified way, to provide for old age, to realize yourself in a loved one, to find a job in a professional capacity, to have an accessible medical education, and to have a qualified medical care. But special attention should be paid to the problems of the growing generation in our future. The question of restoring spirituality, supporting national culture, art, and traditions should be absolutely important to the government in our view. Because without a particular spiritual fulfillment, any economic success remains in vain and will not be able to ensure the formation of the Ukrainian people's state. The faction of the "One Ukraine" Party supports Julia Timoshenko as Prime Minister. We are confident that Julia Volodymyr is at the head of the government's report to make Ukraine a strong and prosperous state. We should remember that Ukraine is unique to us as a single mother to a human. Our priority is man, family, only Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u195	Mikhailo Vasilovich Kossov, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Let's get Solomon ready. Let's move on to the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u196	Your Honour, Mr. President! Dear fellow national MPs! Honorable pretender of the high office of Prime Minister of Ukraine, dear fellow countrymen! I am one of the eleven deputies who have heard the 13th program speech of the Prime Minister in this room today. And if I had to say one word about how I feel about this program, I'd say, "Well, finally." At last we have this kind of power, at last we have this understanding of a situation that's only necessary for Ukraine, just for Ukraine, just for the Ukrainian people, just for the Ukrainian society, which is both divided and dissected and different, and has many different historical traditions and concepts. Thus, what is written in this program is read with great excitement, for the headlines themselves are very, very even poetic, it is faith, justice, harmony, life and so forth. In addition, Julius Volodymyrovna’s speech cannot help but be agitated. We support what it takes for Ukraine, for our situation to have people who profess that there must be morality at first, and then professionalism, because I really support that high-end professionals are the biggest thieves and criminals. Julia Volodymyrna, you have come to power at the wave of that slogan expressed by the All-U.S. Majdan, we together, many, and we will not be overcome. Remember that there will be another year in 2006 and that we are not obliged to disappoint the All - Ukrainian Midan in 2006; we should stay together and then, indeed, we will make great progress. Undoubtedly, the faction of our Ukraine, which had, some of our factions, had their claims, observations, thoughts about your candidacy. He'll vote for you. And we want you to pick up a team of honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u197	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Carmazin. It's going to be the last speaker, I mean, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. I cannot accept this document as a program of government activity. It's a dream, it's a wish, it's called "philosophy," and if it's a program, it's a commitment, including in digital terms. I would like, for example, to refer to the United Nations report on human development in 2001, the so-called, appropriate coefficient, the income ratio of the 10 richest people and the 10 percent below the poorest, Belgium 8, the US 17, Chile 43, Namibia 129. In the USSR there were 5-7 in 91 and now there are about 30 in Ukraine. Dear government and the Honourable President! Or we could go back to the USSR level in 1991 at the target coefficient. Ukraine refers according to World Bank data to low-income states. ” “ I’m sorry. ” 66 countries, including Ukraine, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Zimbabwe. Please tell us, at least to Russia's level during your reign, we will now reach out, and more to Belarus's level, make it a duty. Finally, in all the so - called civilized countries to which we so eagerly climb, the commitments of the President and his government are appreciated. The first is the growth of national wealth, including the growth of citizens' incomes. And secondly, the increase in birth rate and the decrease in mortality, that is, the increase in population. I did not hear in the dreams of Viktor Andriyovich and Julia Volodymyr of specific obligations in this regard. Whether we will return to the time of their rule, not Europe, but at least to the level of the welfare of citizens, at the level of 1991. And will we return the population of Ukraine to 48 million now to 52 million, as it was in 1991. And today, the difference in income between 10 percent of Ukrainian citizens, with the highest income and 10 percent of the lowest incomes, has increased from 3 to 5 times in Soviet times to 10 to 30 and continues to increase. Mr. President, the honorable government! Whether you are obliged to return to this difference at least at the level of the Soviet Union. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that we will finally hear real commitments from you to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u199	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u200	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Mr. President, distinguished national MPs, guests, the suffering Ukrainian people! I welcome our Ukrainian people with the fact that at last he was able to see today the face of the new power that he finally heard from the President himself and then from the candidate for Prime Minister's office, who, I am sure today, will be confirmed by the Prime Minister, what everyone wants to hear. People want to decriminalize power at all levels today, Mr. President. We've had illegal elections, illegal election results, so far we've had orders to kill the most authoritative people in this country, in Odessa County, and we've always had eyes, and they say there's no investigation. We want the economy to be detinized, and that's going to give the wrong percentages that Julia Volodymyrna said -- it's going to give at least 50 percent to the budget right away just to get the whole thing out of the shadows, but it's going to take our joint efforts, dear friends, absolutely common efforts. If we want to do tax reform, if we want to make sure that we don't all die out on the way to the European Union, if we want to do that, let's set a very simple rule, Mr. President, honourable deputies, let's make those businesses in the village pay less taxes, in the district centers a little bit bigger, in the area even bigger and in the capital. By economic means, we will raise the village up, by economic means we will suppress everything else, and by administrative, judicial authorities here are the leaders of the judiciary, which also needs to be updated in many cases must be stopped from corruption, which is and is now proposed by corruption laws. I'm asking the government, I'm asking the President to take a completely new approach to legislation. Let us not distract Parliament into a host of small, small laws. Let us make laws in the name of an independent Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Please invite the national deputies to the session room and allow me to say a few words. The President's proposal to run for prime minister is the logical result of the presidential election and the victory of Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk. Then the Head of State has the right to implement his program by the power of those government managers on whom he trusts and trusts. At the same time, in my opinion, we needed to determine the basis from which we started our movement, to start our movement, because we have little time to think, we need to act in a balanced, professional and responsible manner. Moreover, despite the high rate of growth in gross domestic product since 2000, it must be said that Ukraine’s GDP is much lower than the 1990 level, and by 1999 it had fallen by almost 60 percent. While countries such as the United States during the "great depression" were down 30 percent, in Poland, less than 14 percent in the years of reform, in four years of economic recovery, we did not make significant progress in world ratings. So at the level of competitiveness, the Ukrainian economy is 66th in the world among 102 countries rated, and according to the outlook index, our country has 84th place, at the level of population well-being, 43rd place, with less than $4,000 per capita GDP. This figure is nearly twice lower than the world average and includes, in particular, such poor countries in Africa and Asia. Our figure was only 16 percent of the European Union’s average and only 11 percent of the United States. We're still twice as poor as we were in 1990 and we're at about 68, I mean 1968-1970. In general, by end-consuming per capita consumption, we're about 6.2 times behind the European Union. So when we hear talk about economic wonders in Ukraine, there is clearly an economic wonder in the very setting of economic wonders. We need to increase by 10 percent annually not less than 15 years so that we can grow at least 5 times in 2020. Then we have to run this distance, we have to act and run, run and work, work and run so that we don't lose forever. And to do that, we need to work together and competently. First of all, I have a government and a parliament, a parliament and a government with the appropriate support of the President of Ukraine. With this in mind, your honor, we need to take a decision and support the President of Ukraine in his proposals. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules and Procedures, I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the granting of approval for the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymirovna Timoshenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:54:16]] For 373 Decision taken. Let's welcome Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u202	The factions, please. Please, I'm signing a draft order. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 99, Communist faction - 3, "Regions of Ukraine" - 46, National Agrarian Party - 33, SDPU - 18, "One Ukraine" - 22, SPU - 24, Block Timoshenko - 17, "Soyuz" - 15, "Centre" - 12, "Will of the People" - 13, "True Ukraine and NDP" - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Deminiciates" - 14, "Postfaction - 32. Dear colleagues, following the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is to consider the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovina, for the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. The statement made by Julia Volodymyrna in this regard had already come to the Supreme Council. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna. Please vote. [[14:56:53]] For 374 Decision taken. And now the President of Ukraine has good reason to sign the relevant Order on the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Following the appointment by the President of Ukraine of Timoshenko, Yulia Volodymyrovna, following the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to serve as Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prime Minister has every right to submit nominations to the President of Ukraine concerning the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for this purpose. So that we can see here, in a solemn atmosphere, a new cabinet of ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! I want to thank you for this unanimous vote. I know it may have been difficult for some people, but I want to assure you that under no circumstances will I disappoint the people of Ukraine, not the President of Ukraine, not every one of you. I want you to know that this trust that you've expressed to me today is the highest value. That's what's in my life. And I'm not gonna take any steps to spoil it. It may happen that, like any human, I may not have something to do with the technical issues of government, although I think it may not be, but I know exactly that moral plank I will hold so high that no one will ever be able to tell you that you've made a mistake in this election. I know that each of you represents a large number of people, and therefore my door as Prime Minister for your voters, and for you personally, will always be open. I know that we are with you, we can create such a powerful team that Ukraine will play ours like a diamond in the world. So that we can see that we are not only able to confront you, not only to resist, but also capable of building up a high quality. I believe that and thank you very much for your support. And now I would like to follow the President of Ukraine's instructions to introduce a completely new procedure. When in front of you and in front of all of Ukraine, because now the broadcast is coming and everyone knows and hears it, a new government of Ukraine has been appointed. Under the Constitution, I have to give the President an application for every minister. I know you may have had other visions of a candidate. Perhaps some have been dissatisfied with the fact that this position does not belong to him. There may be some information that undermines your trust, but believe me, in the first three months of the government's work, you'll be able to appreciate every person. And I think that both I and every government official will never lose confidence, and they won't let go of the plank that was raised so high today in the nation. And so first of all, I would like to introduce the candidature of Deputy Prime Minister First Deputy Prime Minister, who has come with us in a very difficult way of fighting, this man is a well-known political and state-level actor, respected in the state and beyond by a person, who has worked repeatedly in leadership positions in the government, including since May 2001 in the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. For 7 years, he led the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, this great organizer, he has good governance techniques, he's a reliable and hardworking man, he's awarded the Order of the Prince of Jaroslav the Wise 5th degree -- he's Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, First Vice Prime Minister. I ask Anatoly Kirilovich to take over the government's bed. An order not signed in a bed is not invited, logically. Then I ask you to sign. We're announcing everyone. I think we're going to sign the decree now, and the government will have a full-fledged First Deputy Prime Minister. The next government official is the Ukrainian national deputy, an economist, fluent in English, French. It's characterized as a high-energy, patriotic, honest person who's been through a very difficult stage of struggle that is valued in Europe as a person who can integrate any thing into any, but Ukraine into Europe so confidently and confidently will. And this is Vice-Prime Minister for European Integration, Rybauk Oleg Borisovich. [[Applause]] I'm asking for an order signed, you can go to bed absolutely legitimately. The next candidate I'd like to introduce to you as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine on humanitarian and social issues is the person who was the soul of the court, the person who gathered all eyes on this field, faith, hope. And he was the personification of the new team's approach to power. Of course, he is a professional person. The head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a recognized leader who is able to consolidate the different views and people who express them, can ensure the openness of public policy in the humanitarian and social spheres and bring it out to a qualitatively new level. This is Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] We still have a vacancy on the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine from the administrative and territorial reform, which will be further announced. And now I want to move directly to the candidates for the positions of ministers who will work in the government. And the first candidate for agrarian politics. You know, during the election campaign, we worked very well, effectively, in partnership with the Socialist Party of Ukraine. And this is the position given to the Ukrainian national deputy, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's budget subcommittee, by way of expertise he's an agro-agricultural scientist, a candidate for economic science, well knows the problems of the agro-industry complex, personally involved in the legislative work aimed at further development of the agro-industry sector. This is the Baranivian Alexander Petrovich. The next one is a candidate for Home Secretary. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, is proposed. He has experience in managing local and central executive bodies. In 1997 - 1998, he served as deputy minister in science and technology. He then cooperated with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. A principled person, a capable organizer, is capable of doing a great deal of work. And the most important thing in this position is an uncompromising fighter for justice. And you know that you and I have announced that there must be civilian control in the force structures, there must be an eye that will look at everything that's going on in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And I think the consequences will be very fast and effective. This is Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, the Socialist Party. Next, I would like to introduce a candidate for Minister of Economy of Ukraine. This is the national MP of the second, third and fourth convocations. He is the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance and Banking. He served as deputy minister of the economy for a time, acting director of the Ukrainian Reform Support Fund, author of numerous economic laws in Ukraine, fluent in English, French and Spanish. He's not just able to secure the work of the Ministry of Economics, he's the person who's going to be the intelligence of this ministry, he's the person who's going to be the pride of this ministry, he's Terjohin Sergey Anatolyevich. The next one is a candidate for the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. It's very easy for me to talk about this person because the whole world knows him. This man is recognized by all the world. This is a man who is respected by every diplomat in the world. This is the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a professional diplomat, a candidate of historical science, who has great experience in managing this ministry, a man who is known and respected in the world. In addition, he is rewarded with a second - degree medal and has all the foreign languages he can speak. Please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. I mean diplomatic. I will present the next minister with special pleasure. This is a candidate for the Ukrainian Minister of Culture and Arts. I want to tell you that, at last, beauty will save not only Ukraine, but also culture and art. I think it's the person who's just going to give the government an extraordinary popularity, a charm. This is a person who loves all of Ukraine because it has traveled all over Ukraine, raising people to fight. This is the National Deputy of Ukraine, the National Artist of Ukraine, the pride of the Ukrainian Estrada, the professor, has a great influence among cultural and artistic workers -- Oksana Bilozer. [[Applause]] I might add that our women’s team has been slightly added to the government and that it will be easier for us to work with such strong men. The next one is the candidate for the Ukrainian Defence Minister, which is a very responsible position because the reconstruction in this area has to be deep and comprehensive. This is a person who is very familiar with these issues -- a civilian person because we're going to follow the clear rules of civilian heads of the power ministries. This president is not going to tell which centre because you'll immediately guess, he has a higher military education, he graduated from the Ukrainian Armed Forces Academy, he's a candidate of technical science, he worked in the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and he's the head of the National Security and Defence Agency of Ukraine, he's a purposeful man, and he's respected in the army, and he's using the support of those involved in defence construction. This is the president, and by the way, he knows very well the opinion of society -- this is President of the Ukrainian Centre for Economic and Political Research, Alexander Razumkov -- Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. [[Applause]] Next candidate for Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. I think we all remember with you when the Supreme Council discusses the issue of education, when every law is passed that deals with education issues, this person is always both a conceptual designer and an author, and those who conduct the most powerful laws through Parliament. I think the whole of Ukraine remembered this man as a real fighter for economic stability in the village and in the center. I remember, and you know the articles that he has devoted, much of it to work, much of his parliamentary activity. This is the People's Deputy of the Second, Third and Fourth Appeal, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education, candidate of pedagogical sciences, deserving education worker of Ukraine, author of many scientific and medical works and publications from pedagogical science, professionally trained director, has great experience among scientists and in the educational sphere, an authoritative and influential person with reform work and proposals, and the main reformist spirit is Nikolajenko Stanislav Mikolajovich. [[Applause]] Next, I would like to propose a candidate for the post of Minister of Health of Ukraine. I'm going to start by not even touching high professionalism, high morality, and I'm going to start by saying that this person, regardless of political orientation, loves and respects the entire Supreme Council. This is a person who is valued for professionalism, preferably in the health system. I can tell you that this is a well-known Ukrainian neurosurgeon, a highly qualified specialist and organizer. He was a medical director, capable of organizing and presenting Ukrainian medicine in and outside the country. Ordered by Prince Jaroslav of Wisdom in the fifth degree, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care - Polishtuk Mikola Efremovic. [[Applause]] The next candidate I want to propose to the President of Ukraine is the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You know that this is an important serious ministry and this position is proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption, an experienced specialist and a wonderful organizer. He has deep analytical skills, he can manage and manage large groups, and the main criterion on which this person was selected, taking into account this ministry, will be the associated committee on natural resources, and I'll tell you this, it's oil, gas, wells and everything else, the main qualification that this person was going through -- it was the high honesty of order and the inability to lobby any interests other than state interests -- it's Ignatenko Paul Mikolayovich. [[Applause]] I now represent the candidate for the post of Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. It's a person who's been through, practically, his whole life course right out of the fuel-energy sector. The head of government, and I'll tell you that later, worked as the minister of the Department, he knows the fuel and energy complex. He has a huge experience of branch management, which is the Deserved Energy of Ukraine, the State Award laureate of Ukraine in science and technology. To conclude, this is the head of the Kiivenergo Plačkov Share Energy Company, Ivan Vasilovich. [[Applause]] The next candidate for the most important ministry in the government of Ukraine is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. I hope the government will work well, but no matter how it works, this minister will be responsible to people for everything, just for everything. And every level of human life indicator. That what makes people unhappy. They'll know their minister in person -- that's the people's deputy in the third and fourth vocations, that's the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work -- that's an honest man, committed to a common cause, has good organizational skills, professional knowledge. And the main thing is the state's position. This is Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Many issues have been asked in the discussion of government programs today regarding industrial development, and this is indeed a very important direction in the work of the government. And now I want to introduce a candidate to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine. This person has a wonderful experience in industrial management as a manager of large businesses. It's a production organizer who's been directly involved in the creation of all the bills aimed at further development of industries, able to certainly embrace this position. He is the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy, Shandra Volodymir Mikolaiovich. The next candidate is the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine. This is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. He has experience in managing the Central Authority of Executives, managing large enterprises effectively, and he has a three-degree order. This is the man who was a fighter during the revolution, this person who went through a very, very difficult revolutionary path and defended, who practically led the entire security system, this person who would be loyal and honest in this position -- Red Woman Eugene Alfredovich. The next ministry is the ministry of our hope, the ministry of our young minister in the affairs of the family, children, and young people. It is he who will be in the source of the growth of our morally, spiritually healthy generation, of a man who will open up all the ways of young people and, by the way, of women, because it is united there. This is Ukraine’s national deputy, a capable organizer and manager, who has excellent experience in working in youth organizations. And young people were near him during all the campaigning. He can lead the ministry and direct his work in the right direction. Above all, his age also corresponds to this position, for he will feel better about what young people live and what they need. This is Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. [[Applause]] And now I'd like to introduce you to the post of ministry, which you'll all have to work with without exception. It's going to be the center of practical enforcement of all our laws, it's going to be the center of concentration of all financial interests. And I would now like to propose a candidate for the post of Minister of Finance of Ukraine. This will be the most important person for you. This is the national deputy of Ukraine, three appeals, a doctor of economic science, a professor, a well-deserved economist of Ukraine. He served as Minister of Economy, Deputy Prime Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. It's in spirit and essentially a reformer. This is a person who knows the financial system very well, knows how every penny moves, and can very and very thoroughly rebuild this range of activities. This person is very high in productivity. I want to tell you that he was the head of the government's programme of activities. And I can tell you that he can work 24 hours a day without a drop in quality. This is a person who has good economic science and methods of economic analysis. He is absolutely confident in his professional activities, very demanding of his subjects, he is able to perform tasks professionally and control them. This is Pinzenic Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The following candidate is proposed to serve as Minister for Emergency Situations. And I can tell you that he practically covered up all the extraordinary situations during a tough election campaign. I can tell you that this person is confidently aware of all the conversations we have had with him, that the Ministry of Emergency Situations must, in addition to allowing no extraordinary situation, also create such a service that every person at any difficult moment of life could turn to and within five minutes get help. Such services are practical in most civilized countries. And I think this person is capable of doing that. This is the national deputy of Ukraine, with considerable experience of managing businesses, a wonderful organizer, it was possible to be sure of all the events related to the election, a very capable manager, Zvania David Vajyevich. You and I have talked a lot today about the fact that our nation, our environment in which we live, must become just. And that's why we've been very scrupulous about identifying a candidate for the Ukrainian Justice Minister. And I can tell you that, in my opinion, we have found a professional, highly professional person who, every cell in his body, feels where justice is, where it isn't, and how it has to be arranged. He is the Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration, with excellent organizational skills and managerial experience. He's organizing the Ministry's work at a highly professional level, and the main thing is that he's going to do the task that's going to be before the Ministry of Justice is to adapt our legislation to European standards. This is Zvarich Roman Mikhailovich. [[Applause]] And now I want to give you an example of how the new command team is operating. When I started representing ministers, we didn't have a deputy prime minister for territorial reform. While the appointment procedure was under way, we did not simply appear, but we had a decent person who may be part of the five people who have a good understanding of administrative reform. This is a person who is not just a wonderful organizer. This is a person who, I hope, can become a good team player, because administrative-territorial reform is a union of virtually all of our visions, how power has to work at all. And I want to introduce you to the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Administrative and Territorial Reform -- this is Roman Immortal. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just seen the entire composition of the government. Orders signed. And the government is starting to work literally from this point on. Because after the President of Ukraine, and I will now give the floor to introduce and approve the heads of the district administrations, we are practically going to the cinema for the first government meeting, where there will be, apart from the government, the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council. We invite all the heads of factions, heads of committees, and we will consider and make decisions about the Government's Action Programme. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u204	Julia Volodymyrna, maybe you'll let me be here for a while and say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u205	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! In line with Julia Volodymyrna’s commission. After we have finished, you will be invited to the meeting first, with the participation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, factions, members of the government in the presence of the President, and the Prime Minister understandably. I now ask the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u207	First of all, dear friends, I have great joy and great honour to address the newly appointed government and to say that you know that maybe no government has been given more hope than the government that we have just considered and approved. I know that the key problem is not only the government, but also trust. After which the second problem is faith. I'm sure this team will go through the first and second steps. I want to swear to you, dear friends, don't let this seem rhetorical, I'm convinced that for our generation, the people in this room, it's time to work for the country. It's time to pick up the stones. No evil, no emotion, less looking at yesterday. But I really want to bring productivity and harmony. I am convinced that anyone who has a hot heart wants it too. And so my request to help this government, stand by, let's be brothers and sisters before such a huge test for which it is worth dedicating our lives to. Because in order to be full of mosaics of structures that work in government, that work in government and around government, let me read another decree on the appointment of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Grab a chair. "To appoint Turkin's Alexander Valentinovich as head of the Ukrainian Security Service." The corresponding order for the release of Smeshek Igor Petrovich is signed. [[Applause]] Dear friends, with respect to the heads of the district administrations, I would like to ask, I would do the decrees, and Julia Volodymyrna would do the short presentation, and it would rather be procedural for Julia Volodymyrna to read the agreed candidatures, and I would sign the relevant decrees. That would be more comfortable for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u208	Dear friends, I'd like to introduce the heads of the district administration. I'll give you a brief picture, because the heads of the district administrations still have to prove that they're doing a great job. And I think it'll be easier to watch how the heads of district administrations work, because they'll be in everyone's eyes and you'll know their every step. Vinnitsky district - Dombrowski Alexander Georgievicz I ask you to go to the bed where we usually have district managers. Volinsk oblast - Bondar Vladimir Nalkovic, Ukrainian national deputy [[Applause]] Dnipropetrovsk oblast - Kasianov Sergey Pavlovich, Ukrainian national deputy. [[Applause]] The Donetsk Region is Chuprun Vadim Prokopovich, First Deputy Head of NAC Naftogaz. This is the ambassador of Ukraine to Turkmenistan, this is a man who has passed a very serious administrative path in the Donetsk region. Žitomir district - Žebrovsky Pavel Ivanovich. Zacarpatsk oblast is Baloga Viktor Ivanovich. The district of Zaporozhye is Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich. The Ivano-Frankiv region is the rector, I'm sorry. Ivano-Frankivska is Ukraine's national deputy, Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich. The Kyiv region is Jovtjak Evgen Dmitrovich, a national deputy. Kirovgrad region - Zejnalova Edouard Zhangirovich. Lugansk oblast - Danilov Aleksei Mečislavovich Lviv district - Olijnik Petr Mihajlovich, National Deputy Mikolaiivsk oblast is Sadikov Alexander Valeriyovich, head of the ACB Observation Board, Yunek. The Poltava region is Bulba Stepanović. The plain region is Red Vasil Mikhailovich. Odessa District is Tsusko Vasil Petrovich. Sumska oblast is Lavrik Mikola Ivanovich. Ternopil region - Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich. Kharkiv district - Avakov Arsen Borisovich Herson County - Selinkov Boris Vitaliyovich, mayor of New Kakhovka Cerkas region - Chrevko Alexander Volodymyrovich, head of NBU administration in the Cherkas region. Cherniewec district is the rector of the University of Cherniewec Tkac Mikola Vasilovich. Czernigovska oblast - Atrovschenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich. The city of Kiev has been reconfirmed by Omelchenko Alexander Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u209	And Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u210	And the city of Sevastopol is Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich, a national deputy. What do you want to do? The hop area, this is going to be a little bit of an intrigue, is going to be further reported. I think after the government meeting. Dear friends, I have fulfilled all my constitutional responsibilities for the necessary application. I thank you for your support, and thank you for your faith in the same thing with the governors of the districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Two moments. There were suggestions for us to make a decision to hold an evening meeting after the break. But. In order to hold such an evening session, we need to take the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council and make changes to the calendar of the session. Therefore, I am now voting on this proposal of this nature, to amend the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4 vocations, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 16 December 2004 on Parliament's work in February 2005, with a February 4th plenary meeting. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u212	I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u213	Please vote. [[15:36:06]] For 307
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u214	Dear friends, please support me! Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u215	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, such an offer is made for us to announce a recess not until 16 hours, but perhaps within 16 hours of 30 minutes. During the break, the government held its first meeting with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. and with the participation of committee representatives, first of all, I mean, professional committees on economic policy, social policy and work. Thus, honourable colleagues, before declaring the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, now, one minute, closed, such a statement. Dear colleagues, since this was such an exciting moment of responsibility, a number of deputies rushed and pressed the wrong button. Among them was Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, who made a statement, and I'm bringing her to your knowledge. He voted in favour, and the car showed that he didn't vote. Thus, the distinguished national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, since there was a question, and an announcement was missed in the Hmelnicki district, the President signed a decree on the head of the district administration of the Hmelnicka district of Olujka Vitalija Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m0.u217	Yeah. Now Tariel Shaković Vasadze came up, said he didn't have a button, he also voted in favour. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 16 o'clock 30 minutes. After that, we will continue our work. We'll be determined after the break on our next job.
