ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:00:30]] There are 399 National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the High Council's plenary meeting yesterday, October 5. We've discussed nine issues of the agenda with you. As a result of their consideration, four laws were passed in general, two bills were passed on the basis, two bills did not obtain the required number of votes, and one draft decree was rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine’s proposals, 1 Law was adopted in a new edition. Dear colleagues, you have a schedule of meetings for today, and we're moving on to its implementation. The question of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies is being answered. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council – Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Valentin Grigorovich, on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On March 28, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a statement from the Ukrainian national deputy, Butz Bogdan Emanolovitch, concerning the time-limit for the appointment of his Cabinet of Ministers. The committee considered it and introduced a draft decree to review the Supreme Council on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Butz Bogdan Emmanuellovich, elected in a multi-mandate public constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties, Victor Yuschenka’s “Our Ukraine”, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Butz Bogdan Emmanuelulovich, elected in a multi-mandate national constituency, the constituency of the political parties, the Block of Our Ukraine, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[No. 8243]] Please vote. [[10:03:42]] For 333 It's been decided. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u4	Thank you. The committee also considered yesterday and supported a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Kachura Pavel Stepanovich about the timely composition of his parliamentary powers. It is known that by decree of the President of Ukraine he is appointed Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine. The committee is therefore invited to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council to terminate the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kachura Pavel Stepanovich, elected in the one-maned constituency No. 117, the Lviv region, in connection with its personal application for parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kachura Pavel Stepanovich, elected in the one-maned constituency of 117, the Lviv region, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Registration number 8244]] Please vote. [[10:05:26]] For 341 Thank you. Decision accepted. Dear colleagues, let us wish our yesterday colleagues fruitful work in ministerial offices and express our satisfaction with their adherence, respect for the requirements of the Constitution, the relevant laws, and not bring this process forward. As we continue our consideration of the election of individual Ukrainian national deputies to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Reports the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The committee yesterday considered a statement by the Ukrainian National MP, Ms. Vadim Jaroslavovic, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine on the election of him as a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[united]] The calculated quota for today's parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party on the parliamentary committees is 0.8. [[united]] Our committee, the Rules Committee, today has one representative from this faction, Fix Yukim Zisyevich. However, the Social-Democratic Party faction, the parliamentary faction “Go, Ukraine!” gave its quota to members of the committee, which is an appropriate agreement with the leader of this faction. [[united]] Taking this into account, the committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy of Missouri, and a draft decision was therefore tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council on the election of the national deputy of Missouri as a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Supreme Council's Order on the election of the National MP of Ukraine to Missouri as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Bill 8245 registration number. Please vote. [[10:08:33]] For 277 Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u8	Thank you. The National Deputy Fedorczuk Jaroslav Petrovich, a member of the Parliamentary faction of Yulia Timoshenko, has also applied for election as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Considering that the calculated quota for this faction on the parliamentary committees today is 1.7, and in our committee there is only one representative of this faction, the BUT faction, this is Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich, the first deputy head of the committee, i.e. the quota not fully used by the faction, the committee has decided to support the statement of the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedorczuk and has made a draft decision for the consideration of the Supreme Council: to elect Fedorczuk Jaroslav Petrovic, the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected by the Multi-Mandatory People's Electoral District, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules of MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I apologize to Jaroslav Petrovich that there was a mistake in the title of the faction in the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote draft Order 8246 on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Fedorczuk Jaroslav Petrovic as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules of Deputy Ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the fact that the fact of the faction of the People's Deputies will be established here. Please vote. [[10:11:08]] For 279 Decision taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u10	Thank you. The committee also considered a statement by the National Deputy of the Gluhovsky Lev Josipovich, a member of the Ukrainian People’s Movement, on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education. The calculated quota for this parliamentary faction on the parliamentary committees is now 0.6. And it's not used in the above mentioned committee. Therefore, it was our decision to support the application of the People's Deputy of Gluhovsky and to submit a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the People's Deputy of Ukraine as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u11	Honorary colleagues put to the vote Order 8247 on the election of the National Deputy of Gluhovsky Lev Josephovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Please vote. [[10:12:46]] For 261 Decision taken. Please, next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u12	Thank you. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a statement by the National Deputy Stupak Vladimir Fedorovich was also considered at the committee meeting to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Committee on Science and Education. Considering that the calculated quota for this MP faction, and it is part of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party on this committee, it has not yet been used. Therefore, the Committee on Rules supported the application and proposed a decision by the Supreme Council on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Stupak as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u13	I'm voting on draft decree 8248 on the election of National Deputy Stupak Vladimir Fedorović as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Please vote. [[10:14:37]] For 240 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u14	The committee also considered a statement by the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Marchenk Alexander Volodymyrovich, who was not elected as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption. The accounting quota for the representation of non-fractional members of the Parliamentary Committees of the Supreme Council for today is one, and in the above-mentioned committee there is already one representative from non-fractional, this is the National Deputy of Ukraine Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, who also does not belong, as I said, to any of the MPs and groups. I mean, the quota for non-fractions on this parliamentary committee is used. In view of this, the committee decided not to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Marchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, you have heard the committee's opinion, but a final decision for the Supreme Council. That's why I'm voting on the decision to elect the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Volodymyrovich, as a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:16:31]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, a statement was reviewed by the Ukrainian National Deputy in his presence at the Russian Anton Matviyovich, members of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption. Taking into account the repeated appeal of the Russian People's Deputy, and that the calculated quota for our Ukraine is 1.9, or almost two. And at the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, only one representative of this faction is working today, Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich, his head. So the quota is that the quota is not fully used. In this regard, the Committee on Rules has decided to support the application of the Russian People's Deputy and to recommend to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-vote the draft Decision on the election of the Ukrainian People's Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption. Registration number 7782 since July 6th this year, and to support it. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let us carry out the commission of a committee of profile and put to the vote registration number 7782: on the election of the national deputy of Ukraine Ruzicky Anton Matviyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council for the Fight against Organised Crime and Corruption. [[10:19:14]] For 288 Decision taken. Let's welcome all the colleagues we've chosen as committee members, and wish them fruitful work. We're looking at the draft Decree on the inclusion of additional issues in the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Registration number 8227. Let me inform you, Your Honor, of the decision of the Conciliation Council. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, we made the final decision, because it was no longer a meeting of the Conciliation Council to present to the session room a draft decree on the inclusion of additional bills. But they, please, would like to draw your attention to this draft regulation, divided into two parts. So those questions that didn't raise any objection to the factions and committees that we have with you to put and vote these questions in a packet, and some of the bills that caused the denial. So we agreed that each of the projects that caused the denial would be, according to established tradition, the Supreme Council. At this point, I want to inform you or remind you that once we've approved the agenda at the beginning of this session, we've already considered these issues, they haven't been supported. A number of them were added. So today, let's go according to the decision of the Conciliation Council, we'll finally solve these issues. So please, I would like to pay attention and vote on the draft Decree 8227 on the inclusion in the approved agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of the fourth call from the sixth September of the following bills, which are added in the first appendix. And I'd like to add a question to this appendix to Bill 8205 on Protection of Cultural Heritage. I'm putting this bill to the vote. Please vote. Vote. [[10:21:58]] For 283 A decision has been made. Please, Melniczuk and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u18	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. This is the third time I ask that we discuss the inclusion of Bill No. 7083 in the agenda, the amendment of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 on debt write-off for farmers. In view of the fact that the 2005 Budget Act deleted the concept of force majeure in the APC. And so it was necessary to discuss today, to include Bill 7083 in the agenda. I beg you, Adam Ivanovich, put to the vote, please, my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u19	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. It is now included in the agenda a draft decision on the additional issue of the Law on the Financial Basis of Local Self-Government in Ukraine – No. 3387 of April 15, 2003. This bill is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Code of Budgets of Ukraine because it seeks to withdraw local finances from the scope of the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. That is, if the bill is adopted, the purchase of goods, jobs and services for local finance will be done without tenders, and direct and self-sustaining, Adam Ivanovich. The bill is contrary to the Constitution, the Budget Code, the Act on the purchase of goods and services at public expense, other acts in the field of procurement, and will contribute to corruption. That's why I'm asking you to shut it down. And, Adam Ivanovich, to draw your attention to the fact that I raised my hand before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the suggestions of others are not about inclusion, only about inclusion. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. There's a whole bunch of bills that we'd like to include in the agenda, and of course there was a later discussion. I'll call them short. This is 2050-3 on the definition of a warring side in the second world war of the Ukrainian rebel army. [[This is my bill.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u23	Andrew, we're about to move on to this discussion. I'll give you my word. Now we're talking about the first list. Dear colleagues! The second list will be discussed and voted separately. On the first count of Koval, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include a draft decision that I proposed to review the behavior of Alknis in Crimea. Now there was a situation where some or some of the guests were talking about anything in Crimea, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine never once considered the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u25	Viacheslav Stanislavovich, I'm sorry, it's back to chapter two, we'll talk about it, we'll talk about it first. I'm asking for the first chapter. You don't? Then let's do it. Tissue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u26	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We had a Supreme Council regulation on the establishment of a temporary commission to study the status of implementation of the Black Sea base agreements. The project was conducted by the National Security and Defence Committee, but once again it is blocked and not considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u27	This is to chapter two. Dear colleagues! Once again, on the Conciliation Council, as usual, they concluded that those draft regulations or laws, which do not raise objections, are included in one list and voted in a package. Those bills that raise objections are included in the next list, and now we're going to move on to it, and we're going to vote separately. So we're done for the first time. A rabbit, please, but only on the first count. John the Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u28	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Adam Ivanovich, once upon a time, I gave the Supreme Council a decree to amend article 3.3. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine It was about the time of the performances. And this was a determination to consider in the Matthews Committee. And the committee's decision is positive. But it doesn't always get in the way of the day. That's why I'm asking for this ruling, given by me and Silent, to be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u29	I think Ivan Alexandrovich that we have it in the general order of the day. Simple. I repeat. Then let's do this so that we can learn the question. But I'm sure she's in line for the general session. There's a few hundred. What can the committee say? Is it on? Ivan Aleksandrovich, call it again, don't you remember the number? Do You Remember the Number? Dear colleagues, we have thus received three positions on the first list. Let's be clear. Melniczuk’s proposal for us to include in this first list issues related to changes in the 2005 State Budget on the cancellation of agricultural debt. Registration number 7083. So, Mikhail Vasilovich? Yes, I'm voting on the inclusion of this issue. Please vote. [[10:29:27]] For 226 They've put it in the order of the day. There was a proposal, fellow Members of the People's Republic of Carmazin, to exclude from the list to exclude from the list that we have approved, Bill 3387, draft law on the financial basis of local self-government in Ukraine. It's a draft of the Blackwolf People's Deputy. Well, I think Deputy Carmazin has every reason, as it were, to say it, but it's just an inclusion in the agenda. We can talk about unacceptableness when we discuss it. But there was such an offer, so I'm putting it to a vote. Who's to rule out the daily bill number 3387, please vote. [[10:30:41.]] For 185 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, the decision is not taken, but once again, it is just an inclusion in the agenda. When we look at it, there'll be an argument, I think we'll make the right decision with you there, as always. John the Rabbit proposes to include in the list of these issues a bill number 3029-1 concerning amendments to the Rules. I can't, they can't tell me if it's on right now, but just in case, let's do it again. We won't spoil the mess with butter. Who is in favour of including this bill under number 3029-1 "On Amendments to the Rules" by John the Rabbit, please vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[10:31:41]] For 226 You're lucky, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, 226th Penitentiary Penitentiary. So, therefore, your honorary colleagues, with the first part of the decree to list drafts that did not raise objections, we have dealt with you. Now we go to a list of questions, to a list of questions related to those who raise objections. Please, here's the word Udovenko, then School and Koval. Please, it's Widow's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to take a positive view of the inclusion of a set of laws on victims of political repression. We had the law passed in 1992, it was obsolete, after which the Constitution was adopted. These people are out of life, there are underage victims of political repression born in prisons, and thus far they are considered enemies of the nation. There's the Onischuk Bill, which refers to lawsuits that have nothing to do with other bills. I suggest, vote, please. Do not turn your back on those unhappy ones who suffered political repression during the totalitarian regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u31	Please, school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out that I propose to include in the agenda, to support bill 2050-5 on recognition as a warring party in the Second World War of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. I understand there are opponents, there are supporters, but first, I urge you to put it into the agenda and discuss it. And I emphasize, the bill speaks of recognition by the warring party. I mean, they're participants in combat. That is, if the participants in the fighting were those who fought in the Czech Republic, in Hungary on the side of the Soviet Union, and were insurgents in Hungary and Czechoslovakia, they were participants in the fighting. Marchuk took off for 15 minutes in Iraq, becoming a fighter. I'm willing to admit the participants in the fighting, no more, we'll talk about the rest later. This is a small but good step in the right direction. I urge everyone to support and bring it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u33	Yes, please, Koval, then Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u34	National Deputy Koval, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked Adam Ivanovich to ask that I have already begun to support in my first speech a draft decree on the Supreme Council's consideration of the behaviour of individual guests who come to the territory of Ukraine and are disgraceful. We are disgraced, our lives are disgraced, and we are acquiesced for the destruction of our nation. So I'd like to include the behavior of Alcnis. Adam Ivanovich, but one more question I'm going to use for 20 seconds. Now that we didn't support the bill on the financial basis of local self-government, some of the people's deputies just didn't realize what it was about. I ask Adam Ivanovich to return to this bill. The bill is relevant to the existence of local self-government in Ukraine and is not a political bill. So I'm asking you to back up on Alcnis and the basic principles of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u35	Please, Lukyanenko. Then there's Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u36	The Ukrainian Republican Party of the Council, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, Bill 2040 on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression. I very much ask you to put it into order for the 8th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This Law was passed even before Ukraine was declared an independent state. He's way out of date. Since the year 94, a group of deputies have been working on a new text, and to this day, it has not come to the attention of the Supreme Council. Many of those who have been persecuted, rehabilitated have died during this time. There are not many of them left. So this, this problem has to be addressed. Finally, Ukraine adopted this Law as the first of its former Soviet republics. But then, in all the republics, they are being updated, and only Ukraine is delaying to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u37	Yes, Teren, please, then Zibenka. Let's go. Yeah, I'm going after the sun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u38	Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. So, dear friends, I would like to point out that everyone understands what this is all about. The Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression has absolutely no political emphasis. It is very important that you remember. The point is that children, children, so that everyone knows about it, children born in places where prisoners are deprived of their will or are with their parents in exile or a special settlement, are also considered victims of political repression. Friends, so I want to say that Russia, Belarus, we've learned about the Central Asian Committee, we don't know how to do it in Zakaukazza. This issue is settled everywhere, in all the republics of the former Soviet Union. These people are practically gone, and unfortunately, they've gone to the light. Law – 7543. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u39	Yes, please, Cibenko, then Gournik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u40	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Cibenko Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the faction of Communists in no way supports the package of inclusion in the agenda for the rehabilitation of UN UPA, because the more we have in the yard a year of 60 years of great victory and it was just abuse of veterans to make such a decision today. And as the head of the profile committee, I would like to point out that, honourable colleagues, let's not break open the door to the members of the UN UPA who did not commit crimes against humanity and the courts are justifiable and have no innocent people on their hands. As far as they're concerned, the problem has long been solved. In the context in which this problem is being addressed today, the language is de facto about the political rehabilitation of the U.N. UPA, which we can by no means allow, more than today. So I ask you to vote very carefully, dear colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u41	Yes, please, Gorenik, follow him Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u42	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear colleagues, in principle, I don't understand the question at all. Each national MP has the right to take his legislative initiative, and it must be considered. Why you don't even want to look at it. Very many colleagues from the Company are taking initiatives to consider equal access to the media, and that's the right thing to do. I think we should support absolutely all the initiatives and put them in the agenda. It's going to be constitutional. Otherwise, we will submit to the Constitutional Court. And about the Ukrainian rebel army. She doesn't need to be rehabilitated. It is recognized by Europe, recognized by all district councils. And the powers of the communists will lead you to ask for rehabilitation after Nuremberg-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u43	Tealenco. Then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u44	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, I don't understand why Supreme Council Resolution 7699 of 7 July of this year on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission to study the status of implementation of the base agreements under the Black Sea Fleet refers to issues that raise contradictions? This project was carried out by a regulatory committee, and a national security and defence committee was held. The question is extremely relevant and it's not only political, but socio-economic. An appropriate commission has now been formed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will prepare materials for the Jushchenko-Putin Commission. The relevant structures are active in the PNBO and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please take a look at this project, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u45	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u46	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian rebel army. We come from the fact that the fight against UPA was a struggle for Ukraine's independence. And today, the issue in Ukrainian society is very acute about the reconciliation of Soviet Army soldiers and UPA soldiers and soldiers. As you can see, the people support this idea. The Ukrainian People's Party has already collected more than one million signatures to support the recognition of the fight against UPA, the struggle for Ukraine's independence. I think we'll do very wisely today if we put this issue into the agenda, we'll look at it, and then everyone will vote as they please. But to deprive ourselves of the right to consider this question is simply consciously not to want to be united in Ukrainian society, knowingly to break up Ukrainian society. And let the one who does not want to vote say that he wants the elderly to be passed on to children and grandchildren in our society. The Ukrainian People's Party doesn't want that. We want you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u47	Yes, dear colleagues, be careful, we will be determined by the comments made by the national deputies. On the subject of the Hoornik's statement that every bill should be considered. Unfortunately, or fortunately, it can only be considered when the Supreme Council includes it in the order of the day. When it is included in the agenda, it is considered. This is what the Constitution requires of us, as it were. So let's include, let's look. For comments about support or return to non-supported or excluded 3387. We have already voted on this decision. We, as it were, voted him out for what was left. Do you want to exclude him, Viacheslav? You suggested going back to the bill on financial support for local self-government. We didn't rule him out. Did they do it right? Thank you. And you suggest we vote again. So it's off. Okay. So, your honor, we're going to be voting with you on each of the bills, a set of bills. There are five bills here, so we're going to include them all together. If it's included, it's included. ‘ Understand? Because it's, like, drafts on the same subject. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language. Yukhnovsky Igor's project, Bill number 7,300. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:45:06]] For-198 The factions, please. Communists - 0, “Ukraine” - 11, National Party - 30, “Our Ukraine” - 37, Block Timoshenko - 29, Socialists - 20, Ukrainian People's Party -23, “Forward Ukraine!” -5, Social Democrats - 0, “Reforms and Order” - 14, Party “One Ukraine” -3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -2, National Movement of Ukraine -15, NDP, Trudova Ukraine - 4, non-fractional -5. Dear colleagues, you know we've got about 10, maybe 15 bills on languages that are included in the agenda. I think we agreed on the Conciliation Council that under my guidance the authors of these bills will gather. When we have a conversation, since it can be as an alternative, it will be considered by automatic means when we consider the matter. I am voting on the draft law on the recognition as a warring party in the Second World War of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists of UN UPA. These are the projects of the National Deputies of Gornik, Klukkowski, Kosiv, School and Kelestin. Bills by number 2050-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:46:51]] For a hundred and The factions. The decision is not taken. Communists – 0, Party of Regions – 1, National Party – 8, Our Ukraine – 36, Block of Timoshenko – 27, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, Forward Ukraine! – 1, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 14, One Ukraine – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement – 15, NDP – 1, Labour Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 3. I'm betting on a bill to rehabilitate victims of political repression. This is the project of the national deputies Lukyanenka, Tanjuk, Staszewski, Kruc. [[Bills Nos. 2040, 2040-1, 2040-2 and 4205]] I'd like to make a statement. And Terna. [[10:47:58]] For-129 The decision is not taken. The factions. Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 1, National Party – 9, “Our Ukraine” – 34, Block Timoshenko – 29, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 23, “Forward Ukraine!” – 1, Social Democrats – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 11, “One Ukraine” – 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 1, National Movement – 15, NDP – 2, “Trudova Ukraine” – 2, “non-fractional” – 3. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, the draft National Deputy of Onischuk, registration number 4455, is submitted to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:06]] For-103 Not supported. Two drafts are put to the vote. This is Project 5317 and Bill 7543 of Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression. These are the projects of Katchura one and the other of Taran. [[Terra]] Please vote. I'll be sure of it. [[10:49:47]] For a hundred and No decision taken. Yeah, next. The draft Decision depriving the citizen of the Russian Federation of Alksnys of the right to enter the territory of the country. National MP Koval's project, registration number 7522. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:50:22]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Communists – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, People's Party – 2, “Ukraine” – 36, Block Timoshenko – 28, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 21, “Forward Ukraine!” – 1, Social-Democratic Party – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 11, “Ukrainian One”, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – zero, right? National Movement – 14, NDP, Hard Ukraine – 2, non-fractional – 1. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Act on the Determination of the Status of Ukrainians Forced to Move in 1944-1946 from Poland to Ukraine. Project of the People's Deputy of Belarus. Registration number 2395. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:34]] For-170. Not accepted. The factions, please. Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 1, National Party – 25, “Our Ukraine” – 38, Block Timoshenko – 33, Socialists – 14, Ukrainian People’s Party – 23, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 1, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, People’s Movement – 14, NDP, “Trudova Ukraine” – 2, “Postfactions” – 3. And there was a proposal by Tkalenka that we include in the agenda a bill on the creation of a temporary special commission on the Black Sea fleet. Bill number 7699. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:37]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. For: Communists – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 17, “Our Ukraine” – 35, Block Timoshenko – 32, Socialist – 14, Ukrainian People's Party – 2, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 0. 23. "Go, Ukraine" - 0, Social Democrats - 0, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Reforms and Orders" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, National Movement - 13, NDP, "Trudova Ukraine" - 6, "Afterfractional" - 3. Here we see Yuri Anatoliyovich, who needs 150. That's absolutely right. It takes 150 to create a commission. But in order to get into the agenda, those who were in the Ukrainian house in 2000 decided that it would take 226 votes, so to speak. So, dear colleagues, you and I have concluded our consideration of the inclusion of additional issues in the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council. All the bills that have been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure have, once again, been reviewed. We're not going to be looking at anything from the voice right now. An interesting moment is coming. Two breaks are requested, two factions ask for a break - the factions of the People's Party and the Party “Go, Ukraine!” Perhaps according to established tradition, you have already consulted? Which one of you will act? Who? Drachewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u48	Viktor Drachevsky, “Go, Ukraine!”, Bloc Vladimir Litvina. Before I was elected as Ukrainian national deputy, I worked in internal affairs. Operational work, I repeat, operating hours are over 25 years. A warrant, Major General of the Police. I have great experience in detecting serious and particularly serious crimes, dozens of killings, including those ordered. Last week, we all heard a report from the head of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, Omelchenko Grigorija. This report has raised a number of questions to me as a search engine and as a member of the public: why was the entire report built at some meetings, negotiations, misunderstandings with Major Melnichenko, statements he gave to the head of the investigation team and to the members of the commission? How has this been processed and done in the first place? Why does Gregory Omelchenko make his own conclusions? At the same time, when the question was asked, Gregory Omelchenko: Do you remember this well, and what do you think of Major Melnichenko? He replied: in my opinion, and rather strangely, he answered, in my opinion, he said, Melnichenko worked not alone. And he's an agent, a West Intelligence agent, a Russian agent or some kind of financial and industrial group. Question: What did the Commission do all those years ago, and how did you, then, Grigory Omelchenko, draw on your findings, on the testimony of the agent, especially if he represented some financial and industrial groups? What financial and industrial groups? Question. And you accuse specific people by violating the presumption of innocence, the Constitution of Ukraine and simply morals. As a national MP, I ask myself what country in the world would suffer if a person admitted to State secrets were to trade film all over the world and do business today. And you know Melnichenko patented the trademark of his tapes. Ukraine, as a State, must take this very seriously because the cluster scandal poses a real threat to the national security of the country. And I suggest we set up a film commission for Melnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u49	I mean, honourable colleagues, in fact, considering our previous question, are proposing a draft decision on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to investigate the circumstances of the cluster scandal and its impact on the state of national security of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:58:44]] For 282 Calm down, please, because it's just a turn-on. «For» - 282, we included. Let's get to the bottom of this. The factions, please. Communists -54, Ukrainian Regions – 48, National Party – 43, Our Ukraine – 30, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 3, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 8, Forward Ukraine! – 18, Social Democrats – 7, Reforms and Order – 1, One Ukraine – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 5, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 10 and non-fractional – 16. [[United]] Included in the agenda. Dear colleagues! I'll introduce you to the project and we'll be sure. The Bible’s Viewpoint: “Is there a God? ” — 2 / 8 4 The Supreme Council rules: Establish a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the circumstances of the cluster scandal and its impact on Ukraine’s national security. Next, the Temporary Investigation Commission. 2. Select the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission of the Ukrainian National Deputy Drachewski Viktor Vasilovich. 3. To the MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine within a two-day period following the adoption of this decision, make proposals for their representatives to be part of the interim commission of inquiry, based on the provision of representation in its composition: one representative of 14 Ukrainian national deputies, but not less than one Ukrainian national deputy from each deputy faction. [[Because there are no more groups.]] There's some personnel here, I'll let you know. The interim commission investigator is not less than once a month to inform the Supreme Council of his work. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational support for the TSC's activities are placed on the Supreme Council's apparatus. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. The TSK has already submitted its proposals: "Further Ukraine!" according to the head here is Drachevsky; from "Our Ukraine" Slabenko, Lebedivsky; from the People's Party - Bandurka, Razwadowski, Lvivin; from the People's ore - Kendzior; from the Block of Timoshenko - Teren and School; from the regions - Dry but can submit more; the same, Anisimov can submit more; the NDP, the Hard Ukraine - Dzon and the Non-Frakational - Zalatinski, Smyanenko. Once again, I remind you that one in 14 may be on board here, but it is imperative to represent each of the 14 factions we have. I mean, please, what are the suggestions, I'd like to make. For reasons of acceptance, please write down. Yes, please, five minutes. Masenko. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u51	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u52	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The Communist faction will support this project. But speaking to you today, I would like to draw attention to the following. In recent times, the Supreme Council has set up commissions to investigate issues of national betrayal and national interests. Whether it's about the cassette scandal, the crimes of state officials, or whether it's about funding the election campaign of today's incumbent president from abroad, the American and Berezovsky money was chosen by this person. Is this related to other issues that have a bearing on the future and, above all, independence? But, Adam Ivanovich, I am not the first to turn. I want to know who's behind the sugar-sparing affair in Ukraine? What specific structures, and who are these people? Why government by.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u53	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u54	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Ukrainian political party. In my opinion, and this is certainly such a commission, and it has to work, and it has to answer the question: which, in fact, took place a few years ago in the premises of the Ukrainian President's administration. And one more thing. Let us not forget that it was after these sad films that a lie about the earrings appeared. And Ukraine, as a result of this lie about the rings, the accusations were loud, suffered enormous damage. We lost tens of millions of dollars just on the basis that false, unreliable information was distributed. And such false, unreliable information in these films is abundant. We should eventually stop political speculation, because society is already being torn down, and the session hall is already being torn down on this basis. More Ukraine cannot bear such lies and abuse of the truth that these films have produced. So in the end, we have to put a dot and turn to the World Organization in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u55	Victor Razwadowski, faction of the People's Party. Behind him is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, for five years now, our country is shaking from this cassette scandal and it is very sad that we are living in a democratic state today, and people, after all, do not know the truth, and some of the political forces are using it for their purposes and are silent for three and a half years as elections are right, they are starting to raise the issue. I still have a proposition to make. I would ask that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be obliged to allow the commission to meet Melnichenko and still clarify the situation, because he does not want to go to Ukraine, he does not want to transfer the film, he has patented it, he does not pass it on to anyone, but not to Ukraine, not for the benefit of our State, so as to clarify the truth. So I ask her to put it to a vote and vote the ruling as a whole with my addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u57	Mikhailo Melniczuk. After him, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u58	I'd like to give it to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u59	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to get to the bottom of this, get to the polls. I think that the Council of Europe has also shown that it is not untimely in the situation in Ukraine, that in Ukraine they want to silence the murder of journalist Gongadze, that there are people in the session room and in the Presidium who want this issue to be closed or somehow falsified. And that's why this committee has to work. Work and confirm once again that these were true records, that they, in the end, need to be added to the case, brought to trial by all, both performers, and customers of the tired number. I hope that the People's Party will likewise vote in favour of the Follow-up Commissions Act and the removal of intrusiveness from its leader, Vladimir Lithuania, if there is to be a trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u61	Valérie Konovaluk. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I am confident that today's creation of the commission is a challenge to stop the brutal technologies that are now being used personally during the start of the electoral campaign. And extreme political swindlers use it and embezzle the authority of the state. We should have placed a dot by now after the authorities had declared that the authorities had come. So let us really put in this story a shameful, question that concerns the truth that really is. And you don't have to speculate about killing this person, you know, using it in your own personal interest all the time. So I'm sure the commission can really figure it out. But the quantitative composition of the commission, it's really very large, here you have to be responsible for the quorum and the commission to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u63	Please, Jeremiah, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u64	Honorable National Deputies and Honorable Ukrainian People! I would like to pay attention to how one political power reflected yesterday regarding the publication of the People's newspaper. Again today, all political forces speak of the need to deal with the problem of Melnichenko in Ukraine. And once again, one political power is making accusations. What does this talk about? This says only that the issue has come to an end, saying that “the thief has a hat on fire. ” And it tells us that once again there's a desire to build an electoral campaign on the helm, on the provocation, and on the hanging of labels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we will be determined by the recommendations and suggestions made by the speakers. Simonenko, about the sugar, the heart, it's not up to this commission, although it has something to do with National Security, it's another matter. Jaroslav Suhiy, for the earrings, I think it's really going to be the subject of the committee's consideration, because to the earrings it had to do, we're creating a commission around a cassette scandal. So, I don't think there's any need for anything more, it's going to make sense out of this. Victor Razwadowski has an interesting idea, but it's not legal for two reasons. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot oblige Melnick to meet because he sends the Ministry and the Attorney General’s Office. And we cannot commit ourselves because we do not have such rights. This will already be on the Commission, which will look for opportunities to meet, it will depend on your operational work. Here the general reported that he was a good operative. So you too, general, will find a way to meet, how to meet. Well, when it comes to the observations of Mikola Rudzkowski about the presidency, you have to make these remarks when there's someone you can turn to. I can't take that for granted. Just like Vladimir Mikhailovich gave you an answer yesterday. So let's just say we're more tolerant of these problems when we're looking at really national security issues and it's not for the sake of, say, a red word. In the course of our conversation, the representatives of the “Regions of Ukraine” of the Dry Deputy, Zviagiliski and Vasilieva were added here. And you have, please, the Cloud of the Ukrainian People's Party. Those who haven't made it, dear colleagues, before, now, if we create a commission, before, and we confirm its composition started with Drachevsky. To him, please, according to the names I named. Do you have any other candidates? Any nominations from socialists, nominees? Who? Melniczuk, please, then Kirilczuk, if only by candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u66	The Socialist Party faction proposes to include Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u67	Yes, dear fellows, let's be more serious. Kirilchuca microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. From the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, I propose to the Omelchenko and Sinchenko Commission instead of Teren.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u69	Now, just a minute, I'll find the lists. So, instead of Teren, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u70	Omelchenko and Sinchenko. There's three of us!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u71	Yes, dear colleagues, I'll remind you once again of the composition, the composition of the committee, those who have already made it. Yes. Well, we need to write a Social Democrat. Please. Let's do this. The factions are defined. Yes, dear colleagues, I will read again, very many who want to work on the committee -- it is a pleasure. So, from Forward Ukraine!, the head is Drachevsky, from Our Ukraine - Slabenko, Lebedivsky, they are now proposing, from the People's Party - Bandurka, Rozwadowski, Lvivin, from the People's Movement - Kendzior, from BUT - School, Omelchenko, Sinchenko, from the “Regions” - Suhiy, Zvigilski, Vasiliev, from the Company - Anisimov, but they can submit, from the NDP, the “Trubov Ukraine” - Dunny, from the non-factional – Zalatinski, Smianenko, from the Social Democrats – Rabbit Vladimir, from the Ukrainian National Party – Cloud and from the Socialists – Rudkovsky Mikola. The socialists are still asking Filindash, Eugene Filindash. Wait. How many factions do you have now? How many factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u72	25! Twenty-five, well, three is not enough. Yes, two could be Rudzkowski and Filindash. Let's not argue. I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the situation of the organization of a cash scandal and its impact on the state of national security of Ukraine and the personal composition that I have announced, plus the communists add Simonov and the Reform and Order faction - Philenka. Please vote. [[11:14:47]] For 335 The commission was created. Let us wish them fruitful work and effective work. Yeah, we're moving on. There's a draft decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in December 2005 -- 7789. [[regarding compliance with the requirements of Ukraine's Constitution and laws regarding the acquisition of quality education in rural areas]] Please, Bauer Mikhailo Josefovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration there is a draft decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in December 2005, with the agenda, on compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine regarding the acquisition of quality education in rural areas. The relevance of the issue has been determined by the fact that in recent years rural education has acquired a number of problems. This is a lack of funding, a reduction in the network of preschool and general education institutions, and a virtually ruined system of extra-school and extra-secondary work. In a catastrophic state, there's a material and technical base. There's been a reduction in the amount of construction of educational institutions. There is virtually no funding available for the implementation of capital repairs, for the elimination of the disaster of educational institutions. Members are also concerned that the authorities of the local and executive authorities have recently launched attacks on small and small schools. The urgent solution requires problems related to the social status of the teacher, his financial status, the need to accelerate the implementation of article 57 of the Education Act. A targeted program for the computerization of rural schools is needed. The creation of educational districts, while addressing the problems of driving students and educators to learning cities. To confirm this, I will give you the following official details. First. The demographic situation in the countryside is catastrophic. There are 700 so - called childless villages in Ukraine. In other words, these are the population points that are practically dying out. In this school year, 11.3 less students were enrolled in the first class of rural schools than in the previous year. 1200 teachers' vacancies. 168 schools have been closed. All of this requires all of us to do everything possible to preserve the rural education system. The introduction of a rural child to an elite college is a challenge. Today, the fact that there are two cultural and spiritual centers left in the village is clear: the church and the school. We need to do everything we can for the people's deputies to save at least one of these centers -- school. So, honourable colleagues, National Deputies of the Science and Worlds Committee ask you to maintain this agenda and to spend Government Day in December with the agenda on the state of education in rural school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, we will determine, the only thing I want to inform you is that in January, and we have only one Government Day per month in accordance with the Rules, in January we have a government day planned on the current state and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine. I mean, there's one day already. I'll put it to a vote. There will be two questions. I'm betting on a draft decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in December 2005. [[regarding compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on quality education in rural areas]] 7799. Vote. [[11:19:40]] For 278 Dear colleagues, this is not a discussion. It's a day-to-day inclusion. It'll be Government Day. You'll talk, you'll talk! I remind you that we have two days of government, more faithfully, two questions on one government day in December is there. We can't do this anymore. There are no additions, because there can be no more to the order of the day. There's a draft decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in December 2005. [[with the daily "On the state of the population of Ukraine ill with infectious diseases and measures to reduce them"]] 8136. Seeds. Please, but by December, you and I can't make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, 74 constituency, Carpathians, People's Party faction, Lithuanian Party. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, infectious diseases in Ukraine, remains high and is several times as high as those of developed countries. In the last 10 years, there has been a tendency to grow. We have an unacceptably high level of infection that can be controlled by specific prevention. Almost 100,000 children suffer from measles, redness, and disease each year. About 100 cases of diphtheria are reported. Several thousand die from the infections. Annual flashes of intestinal infections and food poisoning associated with the consumption of inefficient food and drink and drinking water. Between 1995 and 2004, 401 outbreaks affected more than 18,000 people, including 12,000 children. Of particular concern is the spread of infectious hepatitis A, B, and C, zoonoses associated with animals and humans of infection. The great epidemic danger to the population of Ukraine is so - called exotic infections, which are usually not present for our natural climate. But they can be imported from tropical countries and have a significant spread. These include malaria, atypical pneumonia, cow’s leprosy, chicken flu, and a large group of blood infections. The material and technical base of infectious hospitals remains extremely neglected, and the laboratory base for diagnostics remains at post-war level. There are very few vaccines, serums, and other immunological drugs in Ukraine that pose a real threat to the national security of the state. Especially in terms of possible acts of bioterrorism. Despite the well-developed legal framework in this area, the situation in Ukraine is not improving. The knowledge of the authorities ’ leaders is too slow to come to terms with the truth that providing quality drinking water, garbage and waste, maintaining population sites, public places, and places of mass rest in basic cleanliness. Dear colleagues! Guided by the need to draw the attention of executive authorities once again, leaders of all levels to the urgent problems of ensuring the standard of living conditions for the population of Ukraine, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood proposed to hear the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the measures used to ensure the epidemic welfare of the State in December 2005. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u76	For the time being, stay in the rostrum, because I repeat, we have just made a decision that we decided to make on December's second question, because one has already been defined, the Government's Day for Rural Education. So we can't ask the third question on December at all we want, and the second day we can't, because it's regulated by the Rules. So let's make some suggestions either for January or for February for the next session. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u77	No, come on, if not, spend January.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u78	Then, once again, colleagues, because you understand the two questions on Government Day, they will come to the conclusion that neither one nor the other will have a solid basis, and the rules of the Rules do not allow for a third question. And we're not allowed two days of government per month. That's why December comes out. There's a January committee proposal. No objection? I am then voting on the Government Day in January 2006 on compliance. [[with the daily "On the state of the population of Ukraine ill with infectious diseases and measures to reduce them"]] Registration number 8136. Please vote. [[11:25:12]] For 276 Decision taken. A draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine is under consideration. Bill 8188, Kostinuk Bogdan. I'm on my way. Yeah, well, now I'm going to introduce you to what this decision is about. This decree is intended to select additionally the composition of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council for the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, established by a decree of the Supreme Council of 26 December 2002 of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Koval Villacheslav Stanislavovic, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Any questions? Please sign up. I don't know who you're going to ask. Well, I'll have a good try. Or head. The co-head can then be Alexander Alexandrovich, if I can't. Yes, please give me three minutes to ask. Rodionov, behind Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u79	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u80	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u81	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, understanding the complexity of the commission’s organization of work and the political processes surrounding its work, would still like to draw attention to the fact that when we keep to the end of the arrangements that have been made from the very beginning? We had the only faction of our Ukraine. "Our Ukraine" represented its candidates on this committee. We're on a roll, we're on a roll. On what basis are their problems. But then each of the factions adds an extra amount. We realize that this changes in quantity and quality. As is the case with other factions. So let's look at this problem in its entirety, based on what's specific, let's say, the quantity of faction that started to work in the Supreme Council, and with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u82	Well, I'll just remind you that when we made a commission, there was an agreement that of every 20 national deputies per representative on this committee, but definitely one representative per faction. Clearly, there was a faction of our Ukraine, and it used its quota. Please, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, making changes to the Constitution is a very delicate process, first. And the second is the process that our Ukrainian citizens today take with pain and despair. They want to know whether it's going to be worse or whether it's going to be the way it is now or then they're going to explain what. So I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, first of all, to inform the national deputies of Ukraine, not just the members of the commission, about what is going on on in the commission, what the jobs are so that we can now make our proposals so that no one can take the right of legislative initiative away from us. So I'd like to ask you, who's in charge -- you two, you leaders, you don't want there to be a third, and I think he would help you, and a third person could lead that commission, and at least work professionally with that commission -- put us in touch with what the commission is doing, all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u84	Well, on the third, we're also going to be third, it's up to you. We've already voted once or twice, we'll vote again, I hope. With regard to the commission's leadership. The commission is headed by high-ranking dignitaries, co-chairs of the commission, the problems of changing them neither by the commission nor by the Supreme Council. What's the commission doing? The commission is working productively, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to remind me that today the co-chair of the commission is asking me to remind you that there will be another board meeting in 11 rooms at 12 hours. Yuri Anatolyevich, listen to me. The girls are beautiful, but the answers are also needed. And the commission is looking at the changes to Project 3207-2 regarding local self-government, and today they can go out on the final page and give the MPs an introduction. Yes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out that if we were to join this committee of people, I would suggest that this is a complex question to solve, because, for example, our faction has grown enough, and we can represent two members of this commission, but beyond Matthew, who was on this committee, has ceased to be a member of the faction, and a national deputy, I propose not to look at it now, but to build a mere recruitment scheme, because there can be no whole faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc represented by any national deputy on this committee. Considering that the situation is changing, we are all changing along with these situations, but our views remain unchanged. So we suggest that two more representatives -- members of the Julia Timoshenko bloc -- be added to this committee and consider this bill together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u86	Thank you. I think my colleague at school is absolutely right when he says that, in fact, the faction is completely deprived of the right to participate in this commission, and there were suggestions and Simonna are the same about what we really decided not to look at in the complex or in the individual. Well, that's your opinion. And the National MP's right to take the initiative, it's included in the agenda. And I'm questioning your decision to change the composition of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution. Registration number 8188. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:54]] For a hundred and Not accepted. Let's really try to look at all the factions in the complex that have their own vision of this problem. Let us now consider the second reading. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 8099. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u87	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Honorable Judges, because they are also following the course of our meeting, the honourable citizens of Ukraine. Two weeks later, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill on the basis of conceptual approval, which aims to resolve the procedural situation, an emphasis that arose on the validity of the Code of Administrative Justice. I want to remind you of what we have foreseen in this Act, the Code of Administrative Justice, since September 1st the creation of a specialized system of courts in charge of higher administrative, appeals and local courts. But it is clear that in such a short period of time it is impossible to form this specialized court in its final form. Therefore, in view of the fact that certain commissions have arisen in the application and jurisdiction of individual courts, such as the courts of general, commercial, administrative courts, and the bill has been introduced. Yesterday, the Legal Policy Committee considered the bill and made three major points, and I would like to stress the amendments to it that are reflected in the text. They are worthy of sounding them, which is called personal. The first most important amendment. It refers to article 241 of the Code of Administrative Justice, such as one of the items that regulates the issue of review procedures, in the context of the review of administrative matters by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In particular, the project proposed for the vote today provides that such a review is carried out under exceptional circumstances if there is a different application of the right of the courts of individual jurisdiction at a joint meeting of the Chambers in their equal number. At the same time, the heads of the House head in turn. The next very important change. It refers to the fact that this law establishes a deadline for the establishment of administrative courts, and this term is set at September 1, 2006. [[This is, by the way, a note that was taken into account, by the People's Deputy Sirenka, Slybenka, Peckletzenko and Ononepenko.]] I will point out that earlier in the law there was a concept that predicted that cases were going to the administrative courts to cross their jurisdiction to the extent that they were created by such courts. Parliament thus provides for a deadline for the executive and parliament to adopt appropriate changes. And last but not least, dear colleagues. The bill foresees that regardless of the jurisdiction in which public-law disputes are dealt with, the cassation under it, i.e. the formation of judicial practice, one court is the Supreme Administrative Court. And I think that, in that case, this bill and actually this is reflected in the committee's decision, may be adopted in second reading and in general, as a law, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Now, dear fellows. Take the table. There are virtually all the amendments, except for the amendment of the 11th People’s Deputies of Pecklesenka, which is recorded in part. Please, Peckshank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! I insist on my amendment, and I have every reason. If it's not counted, we're going to break the legislative process, you're going to be in a court of law. This amendment must be taken into account as a matter of urgency. And I would also like to give the floor to my colleague Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u90	Please, Sirenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! I consider the amendment of Hellhound to be absolutely correct and absolutely serious. Because the proposed revision proposes that the courts of the first and the appellate bodies deal with matters under the rules of the economic procedural code, and that the focal point work under other rules, according to the rules of the Code of Administrative Justice. You can't let that happen. It is necessary for cases to be dealt with according to one code, according to one rule. Then it will be a normal case. Otherwise there will be confusion, and there is absolutely no need for complications for people who have to complain about administrative matters. I'm asking you to consider the offer of Peckshank. It is a principle and must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u92	Please, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy had a long discussion at a meeting yesterday, almost late, until night, but did not support the offer of our colleagues. Two arguments. First argument. The proposal, the text of the law, as it is drafted, reflects not only the position of national MPs, members of the committee, most of them at least, but the position of the judicial system itself. Because the meeting was attended by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Court of the Economy, the heads of the relevant courts of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who came together with us in agreement that the proposed editorial committee was the most appropriate and able to solve the problems of law enforcement that had arisen at this stage. And the second argument. Dear colleagues, I want to explain what this is about. The point is that even today the courts are dealing with cases, public-law disputes, such as disputes between tax and customs operators and, by the way, other types. The point is that they will continue to do so only until we form local and appeal administrative courts. There is now the Supreme Administrative Court. All matters of this jurisdiction have already been referred to him. A district or local administrative court has just been formed. All business is passed on to him. So I don't think it's necessary to rush here, but to pay attention to the position, the consolidated position of the judicial system and the parliamentary committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u94	Yeah, we'll listen to another lawyer, Karmazin, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you to agree, Mikola Vasilovich, with the fact that Peckleshenko's amendment should be accepted. I'm asking all my colleagues to understand that. Why? The last part is that these cases are appropriate. Consider the rules of the Code of Administrative Justice and consider the rules of the Code of Economic Procedure, you understand, these are two major differences in respect of respect for human rights and freedoms. If we don't, and you understand that this is a reduction, a narrowing of the rights of every human being, because in the rule of the household, and there we have already done, in the Code of Administrative Justice, civilized rules that protect a person. So I would ask you, let's agree to that. This will be the compromise society needs today. It's not all good anyway, which is why we're adopting this bill. I don't want to analyze it, you understand. So let's support the Hellhound amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u96	Yes, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u97	Dear colleague, Yuri Anatolyevich, you have long and fruitfully worked on the legal committee. I appreciate your point of view, but two warnings. First. It's a transitional law. That is, the application of the temporary regime of jurisdictional delimitation in view of the fact that the administrative courts have not yet been created. That's the first one. The other one. It is important to understand that today, since the courts will only work in this mode for a few months, to completely redesign the system, it's the kind of procedural documents other, it's the order of the meeting of another, it's a different procedure. I mean, what's the point of redesigning the whole farm specialise for a few months, if there's courts, they're handing it all over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u98	Yes, dear colleagues, that's all. Dear colleagues. Sign up. Because I can see I'm not going to satisfy all of you. Yes, five minutes, please. Rodionov, behind him is Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u99	The Communist faction. Please pass the word Kravchenko Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u100	Mikola Kravchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, first of all, Adam Ivanovich, the amendment of Paklesenko must be put to the vote. However, there is little wrong with Onichuk’s colleague. The fact is that the bill will operate for a year and a year and, given the deliberate delay in the establishment of the courts themselves, it will be for a period of five years. Therefore, respectable colleagues should vote in favour of the amendment of Paklesenko, and thus the law would work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u102	Please, Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u103	Party of regions, Zaporozhye. Please give the floor to my colleague, Pehota Vladimir Juleevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u104	Infantry, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u105	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Our faction has considered this law today and we are ready to vote for it. However, we ask, as most of the lawyers in this room insist, to vote separately for the amendment of Hellhound to remove the issue. We won't be here until nightfall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, there are no questions. The amendment will vote on what you are indignant about, of course it will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you on behalf of the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania with only one order. We can add a lot of good things to you right now. We can disagree with you. But in the basic assumption that, unfortunately, the rise of the judiciary in Ukraine is only evolving, we have no right not to adopt this law as a whole. Because in this way, we deprive both the population and the legal entities that understand the judicial system and, accordingly, of the normal tools to protect both the interests of the State and the legal and natural persons. Therefore, please ask us not to discuss the matter. This law is necessary. In any event, the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania will vote unanimously in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u108	Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u110	Please, Klukkowski's microphone. Yuri Klukkowski, People's Union "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider that during the period for which this amendment is proposed, elections are temporarily included. And in the elections, if this amendment works, the dispute between the political party that is the subject of the electoral process and the electoral commission will be dealt with by the economic court. If we're set up by this approach and process and everything else, well, let's support that. If not, I urge you to vote for the amendment of Hellhound.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u112	Andrew School, please. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the floor to the representative of the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko-Sergey Sassa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u114	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Andrew. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that we have deviated from the statutory procedure for reviewing drafts in the second reading. We heard the committee's position, it was brought to the national MPs. We were, we heard the contents of the amendment, and so we should not be having a discussion right now, but we should be voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u116	Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u117	George Manchulenko, 203rd constituency of the Ukrainian People's Party. The Honourable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Election Company is an extremely responsible moment in any country's society. It depends on what kind of authority the people choose. And so that the questions that will arise in the electoral process will be settled by the courts. I think it's unacceptable for us. So the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party also calls on you to support the amendment of colleague Pecklesenko. That would prevent us from allowing future, even likely, consideration by the commercial courts of the issues that may arise during the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u118	Yes, please, Sergey Sobolev and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u119	Sobolev, faction, Reforms and Orders. Our faction has determined that we support this amendment. Moreover, at the committee, the amendment was voted on and did not receive only a few votes. That's why I think it deserves attention, and if it does, then our faction is voting in general for the changes that are being proposed. Therefore, a request to support this amendment is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, literally, one trailer is a note that was made to me by Sergey Volodymyrovich. If we conduct it as required by the Rules, we should discuss each article, even in a second reading, to confirm it, starting with the name, if any, with someone’s comment, others have the right to comment. Sergei Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u121	As amended, we've discussed it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. I'm going to put the vote of People's Deputies in the 11th, and I'm going to remind you what the point is. The point is, at first glance, it would seem. That's why I'm putting to the vote the amendment of Hellhound. Please vote. [[11:47:58]] For 327 Veto doesn't scare us. Correction accepted. So all the other amendments are settled here. Is there no other comment on the bill? Then I put to the vote the second reading and generally as the law of the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, registration number 8099 with the amendment of Pellushenko, which we have just voted on. Please vote. [[11:48:45]] For 361 Thank you for almost unanimity support for a fairly serious bill. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Government Budget for Ukraine 2005. [[on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other priority expenditure]] We should now consider the second reading. But last night, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, they decided to make one more calculation, resulting from that decision of September 20, which the Cabinet of Ministers had already granted some subsidies to compensate local councils for their wages. And somewhere in early November, we'll look at it in a second reading. So since there's mutual agreement between both our profile committee and the Cabinet of Ministers, I'd like to hear it. No objections? Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting System of Ukraine is under consideration, registration number 7539. [[new editor]] Reported Deputy Deputy Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to say right now that I'm going to ask that we send this bill to the third reading. There are some things here that need to be polished. Because social broadcasting is a new phenomenon in general. And especially with lawyers, with economists, some formulas just need to be worked out so that we don't say we're making technical adjustments. I mean, don't let the committee fool you. In general, the orientation is absolutely right in our bill, I think. The meaning of social broadcasting is that you all know that it is needed by the State. It's a sign of Europeanism and democracy, and it's an opportunity to represent really different points of view, not to zombie the population by some political force or other. This is the appropriate level of lack of pornographic advertising, alcohol, tobacco, and so on, and so on and so forth for just five minutes. Thus, according to experts, the level of social television talk should be moral, ethical, creative, professional and so forth, so that, roughly speaking, it was uncomfortable to lie on another channel, when a community tells the truth and speaks in a reasoned way, or at least gives different perspectives to important social problems. There was a remark regarding property that could not be passed on to the state, such as if it were related to the first national channel today. No one is talking about handing over property to the public, let it be owned and controlled by the State Property Fund. The property is provided for by the bill and comes only to the operational administration of public broadcasting. The biggest problem we have been struggling with for almost a year, if not more, is the appointment of the Watch Tower Society. In particular, I propose in this bill that the amendment be rejected by the committee so that when the public and other organizations listed here will name their candidates, they will avoid the rating vote on the committee, because it is always some sympathy, antipathy fractional, political and other social organizations, and resort to simple drawing through the computer and so on, then no one will be offended. Whom he called a computer works for the Watch Tower Society, such as a large number of people. Otherwise, it will be very difficult, for example, if it is proposed to trade unions, how many trade unions and so on. So I'm going to go over to the article and I'm going to ask you to accept it on the second reading, and I'm going to send it to the third, the last, to the grinding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, don't get excited. I'll explain to you what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u124	You don't have to be so sharp, you're a great expert in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u125	No need, Sergei. You don't have to. It's gonna be okay now. I, my esteemed colleagues, am like a procedure. On the third reading, we can only correct articles that will not be supported and we will not be able to find agreement here. If we find agreement, we don't need a third reading. And the second option is. We can immediately send it back to read again. So there's going to be two choices. If we find the opportunity and now we settle all these amendments and we make the decision that we've taken it as a law, it's going to be like the law. So 3 is going to be options, either as a law, or as a second, or as a second, and as a second, and as a third. So let's just keep up with the rules, so let's do the repairs. Yes, please, amendment number two: Yellow, Bespallium. Unburned, please, microphone. Dear colleagues, with your permission, give 15 minutes to complete this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u126	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". By the second amendment. Well, I don't have much to say at the time of the amendment, because it's basically her basic things that are counted and something is written down. Something's counted, something's not. I'm good with editing. But I'm more impressed with your offer, Adam Ivanovich, and I suggest that you send it all over again for second reading. Why? Because some changes need to be harmonized in the context of the entire law, so that there is no inadequacy. I don't think there's any limit to the ability of deputies and the committee of profile to review the law. The axiom is that it is not ready for adoption as a whole. And the question is whether to move a number of articles to a third, or the whole thing to a second. I think it's more logical to repeat the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u127	Sergei Makarovich, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u128	I have no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u129	So, dear colleagues, let's listen to this thought, if there's no objection, the committee agrees, and we feel that this is really the most logical decision we have to make if we send this bill back to second reading. No objections? Then I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, bill number 7539 for re-reading. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[11:56:02]] For 237 Decision taken. Well, because I promised we'd keep going if we didn't consider this law. The law has been considered, so let's take a few minutes early for a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the morning session. There is a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the sale of goods and services for]] Registration number 3128. second reading. Please, Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, there have been many problems of rural development and rural employment in this room. These problems will increase not only with the current decline in rural areas but also with the increase in agricultural production. As its energy saturation increases, more people will be released and need jobs. These places can only provide small businesses in the field of production, in the area of rural services. Our task with you is to create conditions for proactive and entrepreneurial people in the countryside, which will ensure employment and make our village budgets self-sufficient in the future. I believe that the relevant committees will prepare for this convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will all adopt laws to support small business in the country. The Committee is of the view that rural small businesses should be supported by a set of State measures primarily through the State budget and find this law partial, as rural entrepreneurs need not only preferential electricity but also special incentives for taxation. leasings, purchases, equipment, materials. The Committee did not support the amendment of the people's deputies, Gizko and Zajec, to the extent that it was funny to limit production capacity by one kilowatt, but Ivan Alexandrovic's amendments were taken into account in essence, since the lists of enterprises working in the country and for the benefit of the community were local councils, and the penalties had already been amended by the previous law. The Committee requests the support of the law as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. Not included, according to the reporter, two amendments: the amendment of Sergija Žizko — number one. Please, is there a desire to defend it? I don't know, I have it. Deal? They're handing it out. Yes, Sergey Zizko, are you insisting on your right hand? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u133	Well, we insist, because if agricultural workers are going to do more power than they need to do for their private economy, that is, they're going to do some technique that's going to be used to produce a greater amount of electricity, it's generally possible for the state to make a large percentage of the use of that energy. And it's going to pay at the usual rate, and it could be expensive for the state in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u134	Well, I think you said, Vladimir Kostinovich. I only wish you could remember how much electricity we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u135	We have free electricity at 25 per cent. We're running nuclear power, unloaded. And there is, as is said, the problem of loading heat blocks. And we can now not limit consumption limits by any consumer or by any area. Therefore, within the limits of the money available to the farmer, the small farm in the country will provide energy within the limits of the amount of the subsidy to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u136	I mean, they're not gonna lose, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u138	But the national MP insists. That's why I'm voting for amendment number one, Sergey Zizko. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:35:02]] For-23 Not supported. And John the Rabbit number four. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. My point is that for business entities operating in rural areas who are paying a single or fixed tax, separate electricity prices should be set at the level of those prices set for the rural population. Here the committee agreed that large businesses should be at this level. And the people who are holding a store or serving an entrepreneur, or those who are building infrastructure in the countryside -- what there is today -- they've ruled it out. It's a very small patch. But the committee won't accept it. So my proposal is for these people to apply this same standard at the rate of the rural population. Believe me, the shop in the village is not a store in Kiev. In Kiev, it's millions, millions in circulation, and there's coins. So we need to support these people. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u140	The Committee gave this decision to the local councils, which make up the lists and this is the case of the local council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u141	Yes, insists Ivan Alexanderovich. I'm betting on the vote on the fourth amendment of the Hare. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:36:50]] For-61 Let's do the factions. Communists – 0, "The Ukraine Region" – 2, National Party – 1, "Our Ukraine" – 18, Block Timoshenko – 2, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 21, "Forward Ukraine!" – 0, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 6, Ukraine – 0, SPTU – 3, National Movement – 2, NDP, Labour Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 5. So all the problems that we've had, we've solved. It's from the voter's microphone. Not all of them? No, all of them. Fourth, I'm talking about her, we just voted fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u142	We voted on another.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u143	And the other one. All right, please, more Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u144	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. The point of my fourth amendment is that, once again, for business operators operating in rural areas, they are paying a single, or fixed, tax, not to take twice as much as they are now, for the excessive use of electricity. We need to understand, not just that, but for all agricultural producers. We need to understand the specifics of agriculture. If, for example, there is a wet year and you have to dry corn, no economist will plan for you, for example, all these things. That's why I think we need to settle this issue to the end, because we've changed this difference from 5 to 2 in the last few months. But, it seems, for agriculture, this duality has been left to pay for the normative use of electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u145	There is economic discipline, there is the Civil Code, and it is necessary for contracts to have the price and quantity of goods. The power of the goods and on this basis we considered possible, Ivan Alexandrovich, to refuse. Second. With regard to penalties. We have already regulated the Law, which is number 2706 and signed by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u146	Please, Alexandrovska for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u147	Respectable colleagues. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! The proposed law proposes a fragmented price for electricity to be set in the same way as tariffs for rural populations. And in the second part of the same article, it is stated that “the losses of energy operators from setting these tax rates” are compensated by public and local budgets. That is, this law deals with the granting of benefits and where these benefits are covered. However, the Bronnnikov MP has amended the amendment, which was supported by the Committee, and I propose that this amendment, which states, “the granting of the tax tariffs becomes effective in the event of the forecasting of the cost of compensation for energy losses by energy suppliers in public or local budgets”. [[This is part two.]] That is, the rule of law is repeated, which is already set out in another article — article 17, part one, that is, article 17, part one, the second, had already said so. Then in the End Positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u148	Thus, honourable colleagues, there is a note to the third amendment of the national MP Bronnikov. Six? Yes, until the sixth amendment of MP Bronnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I agree with Alla Alexandrovna's comment. But with the Legal Department in preparing him for the press, we agree. If it's a toutology, we'll get rid of that toutology.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u150	I'm interested in something else. Does it affect the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u151	The law has an impact and effect on the budget if there is a rule in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u152	So we can only write down the right decision that this law goes into effect as of 1 January 2006 or even since 2007, the sixth year. Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u153	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! This bill will not work. And that's when Alexandrovsky said it right, because first of all, we have to predict these numbers in the budget, but if they're predicted, they won't cover all the needs. And this is going to be what with 57 articles for teachers when there was no normal cost in the budget. So it's a scary bill. And what is his ideology? He pursues such an ideology that the village seems to be receiving benefits. In fact, for an agricultural producer, you know, to this day it's not a benefit, a tariff is bigger than an industry. So the point is that a few amendments, including the amendment of Bronnikov and the amendments, would actually exclude this bill from effect. And I say that the agricultural producer will not have any privileges under this bill unless we remove part two from the final position. If we delete it, we can think about the State Budget and we can think about the local authorities making up a list. Otherwise, it will be the law of the law, or lobbyism. So lobbyism is energetic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u154	Yes. No, you've already spoken, Ivan Alexanderovich, you deny yourself. Because they've just made great adjustments, and I've even supported one of them, and here you're saying that the law is worthless. You can't do that either. Dear colleagues, I'm pointing out to you that we can't record in the final positions as recorded right now. Because this has something to do with budget spending. So there are two proposals, I'll put them to a vote. One half, that's from January 1st 2006 and the other is absolutely legal from January 1st 2007. I'm putting these motions to a vote, and then we're going to vote as a law without any exceptions that this law is going into effect on January 1, 2006, and that's it. Yeah, first and second. It goes into effect on January 1, 2006. Vote. [[12:44:06]] For 207 Wait, you got it. Then there's another offer. It goes into effect on January 1, 2007. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:30]] For 225 So by rating, I did get a second offer. That's why I'm betting on the vote. Explain the “Ending Position” with this. Can I have a glass, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u155	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, next year in the country is invited to announce the village year. We know what the crisis is in the country right now. We need to support him now. That's why I'm proposing to the people's deputies and, Adam Ivanovich, put it to the vote, vote on January 1, 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down. I'll take both the sixth and the seventh. It's taken on most of the seventh. Now we're going to vote seventh. You didn't pick us up? Let's go back to the sixth. I'm voting on a proposal that has received more votes in the rating, namely 225, that this law should be put into effect as of 1 January 2007. Please vote. [[12:45:56]] For 196 The proposal to put it into effect as of January 1, 2006 is then put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:46:21]] For 294 Villagers, don't be too happy. With the amendment that we have voted on the adoption of this law as a whole and as a law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on Power Enterprises. Registration number 3128. Please vote. [[12:46:58]] For 265 The law is passed. A draft Law on State Land cadastre is under consideration. Reported to the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Lechenko Vladimir Alexiyovich. Second reading, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I remind you that this bill provides for the establishment of a legal economic and organisational framework for State land cadastra in order to guarantee the rights of owners and users and other immovable property, information security for land administration and land taxation. The draft law was considered and adopted by the Supreme Council on the first reading of October 5, 2004. Over a long period of time, 107 comments and suggestions from the Ukrainian National Deputies Committee were carefully considered, 70 were taken into account, 10 were taken into account, one was partially taken into account, and 26 were rejected. I'm informing you that among the rejected, these are mainly the proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies, to include in the bill the definition of terms in other laws, to exclude from the bill articles that define the powers of state authorities and local self-government in the field of the State-terrestrial cadastre. As well as comments on the drafting of the individual rules of the bill. The proposal by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations is to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll go to the amendment, and I'll point out that the Chief Legal Authority also had certain observations. Incorruptible fifth. Don't insist. Demjochin, the 13th doesn't insist. The payer's thirty-first doesn't insist. The price is thirty - five, the same. Demyochin, thirty-six, does not insist. Cosaczenko, forty-second. Don't insist. Insomnia, 45th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u159	43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u160	43, no. 45th and 47th, no. Cosachenko: 48th, Bespallium 49th. Well, I see that basically the same authors, they don't insist. Then I say, whose amendment is not included, would you like to argue with it? There aren't any? Then I make a proposal to the Admission Committee in the second reading and generally as the Law on State Land cadastre. [[12:50:16]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, calm down. Well, it's a young member of the government, so we're just going to make a delicate remark to him that we don't come to the government and we're not showing how to vote for any of the ministers. But come on. This is a colleague of ours who has recently come to realize that he is very concerned about this Law and does what is right. Yes, the committee's proposal now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, indeed, considering the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority and the fact that the Hall did not support it today, there may be other observations. Therefore, the Committee proposes that the draft law be sent back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u162	Matvienkov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u163	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone will argue or argue that, indeed, the inventory of land must be a unified system for accounting and control of all the lands that are, let us say, in a single register. But today the majority of non-vote do not vote for one simple reason: the lawlessness that exists today in the production of any paper certificate, any document that confirms ownership of the land, any step with the land, is the stripping of the peasants, it is the stripping of the owner or the potential owner who would like to make a deal on the land. And when we do. If it is indeed to be re-readed, it is necessary to work seriously before that with guidance documents in order to clearly define the tariffs that exist today, with systems that do not exist in the legislative context, but with guidance documents, with instructions that are simply unsettling today. Let's put it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u164	Yes. Dear colleagues, put your hands down. Now, if you'll excuse me, we've been given extra credit here, we haven't had it in my folder, we've got two decrees on the Mokrousov and Rímaruk projects on the inadmissibility of the draft State Land Cadastre Act. So I'm going to put these decisions to the vote first. Please make up your mind. It's about inadmissibility. This is regulation 5394P-2 and P-1. [[12:52:54]] For-41 Not supported. Thus, fellow believers, be careful. I'm betting, I think, that's exactly what the profile committee and my colleague Matvienkov would suggest that it should be seriously worked out. And I would ask that if we sent him to read again, I would ask the Cabinet of Ministers and the State to join in, because this is an editorial of the deputies, and we wanted to see the opinion here and the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's work together. I'm voting on the bill for re-reading. Please be supportive. [[12:53:47]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Once again, I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to work with the committee to ensure that it meets the meeting room. Yes, we should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, 3651. However, for the time being, the profile committee in the discussions surrounding the bill is comparative. That is why we are taking the matter to heart. There are draft laws to amend the Ukrainian Act "On State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases which have Caused Loss of Work", registration number 3036. [[second reading]] Reports the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! This bill, which is proposed to your attention, is one of those that under normal conditions in the Supreme Council would not be supported under any circumstances. This is the bill of former People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, who, in violation of the Act on the Fundamentals of General Compulsory Social Insurance and several others, proposed to change the ideology of management of a single, single fund, and you know, four work in a single ideology. Only about the accident insurance fund at work. The bill was adopted as a basis, and I draw your attention to the date - 14 December 2004. Despite the categorical objections of our committee, the Government, the employers' association and the trade union, which is most directly related to the management of these funds, the Supreme Council voted in the wake of that time. This bill depends on, today, it turns out, nobody needs it, hanging in our committee's section like it's out of our minds. Therefore, once again, our committee has considered the situation of this bill, it cannot agree that it has been adopted in violation of existing Ukrainian legislation and is seeking, and our appeal supports the association of employers, trade union associations and requests to support the Committee's decision to repeal the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Decree of 14 December 2004 on the adoption, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Insurance Against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which has caused the loss of incapacity. That is, we must leave the norm in force in the basic law on the basis of compulsory public social insurance. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u166	Yes, the position of the committee is understood, my fellow officers. So I'll bet. The point is that the committee proposes that the decision on first reading be overturned. If we cancel it, it's not. If we do not cancel, the committee will be obliged to work on preparing the bill for second reading. Matvienkov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u167	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Respectable colleagues. You'll remember the tension we've been fighting around the accident insurance fund at work. What is this about? I honestly don't understand Mr. Haru why he's asking that question in such a way. This is the report of the Fund to the Supreme Council on the use of funds. This is the approval of the size of the management of this fund in the Supreme Council. It is a list of banks in which this money can be stored, in which banks can rotate that money. It is a matter of depriving the Fund of the right to adjust to increase or decrease the size of certain enterprises. So what's wrong with that? We're in this fund, I say again, and we've given birth to a dependant's mood. We have taken care of the disabled and the people who have been injured in enterprises that have faithfully and faithfully performed these functions. I mean, the principle that I haven't brought up once before. I've come to pay for everything. He paid. How many regressors do you have, 15 or 100? You paid the rate, washed your hands today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u168	On clean hands, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I am simply not comfortable commenting on what Sergey Anatolievich said. He started with one and ended up with the other. Not exactly what the bill refers to. You and I are the legislative body. You and I have defined the structure of the social insurance system using European experience and, above all, German experience. We have adopted, as a member of the Supreme Council, the Act “On the Fundamentals of a General Compulsory State Social Insurance”, which has made a very reasonable decision to manage this fund on the basis of tripartism, State representatives, employers and trade unions. We are building a civil society with you, and we must trust those institutions, including the State party that participates in governance. What does it mean to have a supervisory board of government and no authority whatsoever? We are not in the structure, not in the preparation of the budget, which is confirmed by the administration through the submission of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, is the same. And the second. If we want to make a difference, we need to change the basic law for all four funds. All four foundations work in one, one ideology. And one law, the most unfortunate, is a work accident, by the way, which has solved the enormous problems of debt and current payments to disabled persons who have become disabled at work. Of course, Sergey Anatolevich does not benefit from this because the combination is huge, the turnover is enormous, the pay fund is large and therefore their share of the money in the fund is large. But that's why it's called a general government social insurance fund, and we have to have a public approach to that fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u170	He didn't name his last name, he called the company, right now. I see there are many now, let's write down the motive for the vote. For reasons of vote, what's written is a second reading. Nothing's written down, Ivan Alexanderovich. Then let's take five minutes and Hinsburg, followed by Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u171	Dear National Deputies! Here I have before me this table of amendments to Ukraine's draft law on these changes, presented by the People's Deputy Pinzenic. You know what the main thing is here. The main thing here is to put social insurance funds under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers. We understand that this should be done by trade unions today. And I'm going to read these articles, and I'm going to support today that we have to reject this. Because if we take control of social insurance funds from the unions today and hand over some of it to the Cabinet of Ministers, none of it is going to win. So I support the proposal made by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u172	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Behind him is Sherschun Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I can confirm the committee head's words, we've tried this bill, we've been waiting for amendments to the second reading, they're gone and the Buddha can't. And I want to remind my colleague here what this is all about. We either build, we go to civil society and we build a social protection system based on insurance and a tripartite leadership, or we do what we used to do -- we give up the trust funds, and we put the money into the general boiler. See what else is being offered. To announce the contest, and these funds are to go to some commercial bank that will service them in a way that will be an effective owner of this big money. This bill needs to be rejected and the decision can only be one thing; we must not break a system that has been born with great difficulty. Now, remember, just recently, miners came here, and they were wearing helmets, because there was no money regressive. We just built up with great difficulty because of the compromise here in the session room. This bill has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u174	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u175	Please pass the word to the great expert on this question to Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u176	Dear Basil, as he will say, it will be, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u177	Dear Vassili, the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, today we must conceptually define ourselves: we are building legislation that conforms to generally accepted standards or we are trying to do something voluntary again in the face of what has been done. Throughout the civilized world, such funds are managed by workers and employers. We've added a state. But it was not clear in December last year for what reasons, and even more so, to be frank, it was understandable that it was a desire to take money from that fund and to throw it away for other obligations of the State, which was not normal. This money should only go to the point of disability. That is why today we are obliged to abandon this approach, otherwise we will rebuild something wild that will not go to any gate. So the Lithuanian People's Party won't vote for it, because we won't break what we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u178	We don't know what you're not going to vote for. Here's a proposition just like you suggested. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u179	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, you know, in principle, I would like to point out that it's good that a similar situation has now come up for discussion by the Supreme Council. Because somehow, not very loudly, it was discussed on the committee, because I think it was necessary to engage in this discussion and the public. Because, in principle, the position of the committee here deserves support in this situation. Because in other circumstances, if we were to talk about that these funds that had been created before were brought together, that's something we can talk about. But when you change structurally and change the supervisory board, well, in principle, it's a repetition. Therefore, the committee is worth supporting. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u180	Leonid Vernigore.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u181	Over the past two or three years, the Cabinet of Ministers has intervened in the operations of self - control funds and has collected large amounts of funds, especially in this fund. And that's why Victor Mikhailovich, I realized, two years ago, decided to justify those who intervene and passed such a bill. At the time of consideration of another under this law: The Law on the Bilateralization of Fund Administration. And let's say the state didn't interfere with the fund, let's say it did a supervisory function. So it is clear to everyone that the nature of the foundation is such that we today should not give anyone the right to intervene in its activities. We just have to cancel this decision and move on to a more literate one, so let's say, a decision that will translate the management of the funds into a bilateral one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u182	Please, Alexander Tkalenko. Tkalenka, your microphone is on. Well, he doesn't want to talk. All right, then, please, Deputy Minister Hotch Helen Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u183	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Honorable national MPs, the position of the bill, really have a place in life, and they need to be settled, separate positions. This refers to the transparency of the fund’s activities. But we can't help but listen to the opinion of the profile committee -- the individual provisions of the bill don't match the basics of social insurance legislation and only settle these issues in one area. And besides this kind of insurance, we have two other types of insurance. Therefore, it would be desirable that this discussion, which has taken place today, constructively, we, together with social partners and the public, should work out and submit to the Supreme Council our joint bill on addressing these issues, which employers would also support. Therefore, we believe that the opinion of the profile committee should be taken into account today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u184	Thank you. Ah, the Replica of Matthew and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u185	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to tell the rapporteur that the combination of Ilic is the most social, probably protected enterprise and the most socially oriented one, and you cannot fail to agree with that. Millions of grevens today spend on social protection for workers. But that's not what this is about and we're not talking about it. We are talking about the fact that we are asking for an elementary order in the work of the Fund. We are here to solve the problems of miners, but not from metalsmiths and not from teachers, doctors who pay money to the fund. We're against it. To determine who should pay contributions to the fund at a higher rate, and who should be less than the number of injuries. We're here for trauma first. And in enterprises where safety is not normal, they pay more. Why enterprises that work normally in safety should pay for those who work and operate poorly? That's what we're talking about today. In the end, let us work seriously on this law and keep it in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, Matthew's right, but that's a little bit of another question. This is about interfering with the Kabmin or not interfering with the leadership. I am voting for a proposal by the Professional Committee to repeal the Supreme Council Resolution on Adoption on the basis of a bill to amend and supplement Ukraine’s laws on mandatory public social insurance against an accident on production and occupational disease that has caused a loss of employment. Registration number 3036. Please vote. [[13:09:20]] For 304 The decision has been taken - the first reading decision has been revoked. Please prepare new proposals. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulation of activities in special economic zones and in priority areas is under consideration. [[Free]] [[concerning the meat of the bird]] [[second reading]] Registration number 3375. Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u187	The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investments, at its meeting on 21 September, considered the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of activities in special free economic zones and in priority development territories No. 3375, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Vasuk, Sigal, on the basis of a legislative initiative. The bill was prepared at the time to resolve the problems that exist in food industries that are implementing investment projects in special economic zones. The main objective of the project was to establish a mechanism for balancing and using domestic and import raw materials by meat processing enterprises operating in these special economic zones and in priority development territories. Addressing the issue of the return of the concessional regime for the import of poultry to those enterprises by establishing a 50 per cent of the capacity of those enterprises, i.e. 70,000 tonnes in total in Ukraine, which would be further reduced in parallel with the end of the concessional regime. The bill was designed to supplement article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on General Measures for the Functioning of Special Economic Zones with a rule that would give regional public administrations the right to determine the need for special economic zones and territories for priority development in meat and poultry which could not be met by a domestic producer and to submit these proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers in setting quotas for this preferential importation of meat. As these provisions were intended to extend to the laws and decrees of the President of Ukraine under which special economic zones had been established and to establish an investment regime, activities in the territories of priority development zones. There are 14 laws and 3 decrees. But bearing in mind that, since this legislative initiative and the adoption of the basis, significant changes have been made to the current legislation of Ukraine, including those proposed by the proposed amendments and additions to the bill, the Committee has endorsed the decision to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine abolish the decision to adopt a draft law on Ukraine, to amend certain Ukrainian legislation relating to the regulation of activities in special economic zones and to the territory of priority development. The proposal was agreed with the drafters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The situation is clear. You see the number. It was probably three years ago that a bill was introduced. The changes have come, the other laws have already fixed the situation, so I think let's support the proposal of the profile committee and vote in favour of the annulment order. Questions? It's a second reading. Excuse me, Your Honor, this is the second reading. We haven't heard from Karmazin in a long time. Turn on the microphone. Volodymyr Josephovich, on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Josephovich! In view of the fact that this is not the second reading, this radically changes state policy, let's say, and the politics of our Supreme Council, I would like you to respond now. So what are we going to do now? If we cancel this law, we still have a market open to import, yes, it gets even more open. We wanted to prevent this law. I understand that, authors, at least here I have this law before me, there are mechanisms that at least a little bit would like to stop it. The issue now remains open to the import and protection of its own manufacturer. What mechanisms does the committee have here?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u190	The Committee recommends no proposals, no mechanisms, because it is not our agricultural production industry, not the Committee of Economic Policy. I understand that if we cancel this first-reading order, we force domestic producers to produce more meat. Because this amendment, proposed by Vasuk and Sigal, has basically restored the concessional regime for meat imports, the concessional regime for meat imports, I repeat. That is, a concessional regime for the importation of meat to the detriment of our producers. We are now making a producer, a domestic producer, work. Yes, I agree that this was another step towards joining the WTO, the World Trade Organization. This is the amendment that was made. Or the amendment of the law that was introduced. It was really an entrance to the S.O.T. I'll give you an example of just Lithuania, where meat and animal production are not allowed today. Do you understand? If we cancel this decision that we have made, we will force our producers to work anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u192	The government's position is correct. Decline. I am voting on a proposal by the Professional Committee to repeal the Supreme Council’s decision to adopt, on the basis of a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of activities in special free economic zones and in areas of priority for bird meat. Registration number 3375. Please vote. [[13:16:24]] For 181 The factions. The Communists 54, the Ukrainian People's Party 0, the People's Party 22, Our Ukraine 13, Block Timoshenko 24, Socialists 1, Ukrainian People's Party 6, Forward, Ukraine! 19, Social Democrats 3, Reforms and Orders 1, One Ukraine 0, Industrial and Business Party 12, National Movement of Ukraine 10, NDP and Trudov Ukraine 8, non-fractional 8. Now the government is going to show its position, but don't forget, dear colleagues, that there are no free economic zones at all. They're not working. Yes, who from the government? Are you ready to say it? Please, the microphone. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Well, really, the position of the government is that we need to create a level playing field for both foreign and domestic producers to act on market principles, and that's why we don't support free economic zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u193	That's a good position. Even such a good position that until recently the Minister of Agrarian Politics could not understand what it was. Yes, Victor Andryovich? Yes, Ratushniak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u194	It's on, isn't it? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we have a man who says that I have my government and my nation. And I want to understand how the average Ukrainian is, and where our government is Ukrainian. I think it's a branch of someone's government. They want our manufacturer to work on an equal basis with a foreign one, but the foreign one is going to get loans below 1% of the annual one, and our Ukrainian one is going to have 20% of the bracelets. Plus he'll get a grant. But where are these equal conditions? These are the conditions when they produce, and we're going to be fortifications in them. If you resign, you understand the government or the branch that responds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u195	Yes, dear fellows, here I have consulted with another agrarian. We don't understand what we're voting on. They were against the project, but they didn't vote. It's about removing it from second reading and eliminating it as a bill. Melniczuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u196	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Chernivets region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. Always, when the haste was the same as that of the past government, he passed all the bills and then, when stressed, took the head of what they had done. I think we still have to put this bill back in order to get it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, they exchanged, you see, the misunderstandings of what we voted for. Once again, we are voting on the issue, if you will, of eliminating this bill. Who's in favour of going back to voting on this bill, please vote. [[13:20:18]] For 227 Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt, in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, to regulate activities in special economic zones and in areas of priority development. [[Free]] [[concerning the meat of the bird]] Registration number 3375. Please vote. [[13:20:57]] For 261 Thank you. The decision to repeal this law has been made. Let us move on to the next chapter of ours. It's being examined, the draft law on the totality of the Ukrainian Security Service. Registration number 8175. Reported by the Head of the Security Service Drzychny Igor Vasilovich. Let us welcome him to his new position, although he has reported to us on more than one occasion in previous positions. Igor Vasilovich, how long do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u198	Two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u199	Two minutes, please. Three minutes out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a draft Ukrainian law on the overall structure and number of security services of Ukraine. According to article 85, part 1, paragraph 22, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the approval of the overall structure and number of security services, as well as other military formations, belong to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of the Law will enable the Supreme Council to exercise its constitutional powers regarding such approval and to bring its order into line with the Basic Law. The project contains three articles that determine the overall structure of the service, its total number, and the timing of the Act’s entry into force. Article 5 proposes to approve the overall structure of the Ukrainian Security Service, which corresponds to the legislative tasks of the security service. It includes now existing central government, regional authorities, military counter-intelligence bodies, academic, scientific, scientific and other institutions, institutions, organizations, enterprises, as well as the Government Liaison Service and the Anti-Terrorism Centre in Ukraine's security services. As far as organizational structure is concerned, according to part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, it is determined by the President of Ukraine, which is made by an appropriate decree. It should be noted that the same approach has already been applied by the legislator when the general structures of the Ukrainian State Border Service, the civil defence forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the criminal enforcement system were approved. The second article of the bill for the first time at the legislative level is proposed to determine the number of employees. In our view, this is the first step towards openness and demonstration of the Ukrainian State's intentions to follow established world democratic standards for the activities of the Special Forces. The proposed number reflects the actual, that is, the current total number of services, in view of this adoption of the Law, it will not require any additional budgetary expenditure, since funding is being made within the limits of the funds already allocated from the State budget. The adoption of this law will, in our view, be a step towards deepening civil control over the state's military organization, for the Security Service as its component, and will contribute to the development of the democratic principles of the entire Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u201	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Especially the reserve officers are recorded. Please give me five minutes, interesting law. Loboda, after him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u202	May I have the floor to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u203	Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u204	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Igor Vasilevich, I have come to know the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office for the draft of this law and I have been surprised by the offer to transfer all personnel from the military to the civilian level, which has special status. I'm not a specialist in this industry, to be honest, but what experts recommend is always, to say the least, drawing my attention. It is my understanding that the employees of the service today are military personnel, take an oath and are accountable to the people of Ukraine, as are other law enforcement personnel, and so on. How do you feel about this proposal, and how do you really understand the status of employees today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u205	Thank you, Alexandrovna. I can take a positive view of this proposal. But I want to point out that the issue of demilitarization is not a matter of this law. It's just that we're legislatively fixing the number that we have today. In fact, this number includes both military and military personnel. The process of creating civilian positions in the Security Service, it started a few years ago, it's ongoing, and among the deputy heads of the service are civilians today and, among the employees of the structural units. I think that in terms of the general democratisation of society, it's a natural process that has to spread to the service. But, I emphasize, in this law, we don't solve this problem, we just fix the situation, including the workforce that exists today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u206	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u207	Igor Vasilovich, Zaporozhye, Jaroslav Suchy, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”, in terms of the general democratization of society, I have a specific question. To date, the Ukrainian Security Service, instead of carrying out its direct duties, is serving as such a waste of the governing regime. Please tell me, when are you gonna stop killing the Zaporozhye Medical and Health Department's employees? Six months, the hospital is shaking! There's nothing more you can do? Have you done all your tasks in national security? Are you reviewing the tests now? Well, why did it happen that it is the U.S.S.S.U. that is making political orders today? And you're banging on those opponents who stood on the other side of the barricade and named Yanukovich? Well, is that up to the officers? Whether you are military or civilian, we would like to see one thing: the U.S.A. on the watch of law and justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u208	Among the tasks facing the Ukrainian Security Service, and this is one of the priorities, is the removal of the inequitable Security Service. The process of reforming the Ukrainian Security Service, which will certainly last and will have its logical development, also provides for separation from the Security Service from those functions that are more legal protection than special services. I think there's going to be a lot of problems in this context, including the one you mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u209	Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u210	Dear Igor Vasilovich, would you please tell us if today the structure of the Ukrainian Security Service is in line with the task of protecting national security at this stage at which we are? And how effective has the Ukrainian Security Service worked in the last 12 years when corruption was dissolved, Mafia-criminalized clans dominated, connected with the government, robbed the state? And in fact, the Security Service was not as Ukrainian as was the security service of the corrupt regime in Ukraine. Please tell me how do you appreciate this previous 12-year story?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u211	Actually, I don't think I have the right to evaluate the Security Service for 12 years. I don't think that's my job. And with regard to the structure that exists today, it is, in my opinion, quite effective and adequate to the tasks assigned to the Ukrainian Security Service. At the same time, the structure of the Security Service is not a dogma, it is a living organism, and if there is a need, it will change accordingly, responding to the challenges and threats that exist in society, and the fight against which is the task of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u212	Let's vote. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u213	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear reporter, I'd like a few words. What motivated this figure of 41,750 people, how motivated they are here, because enough motivation, in principle, I didn't draw from the materials that were given to us. That's one question. And question two. Are you investigating cases that were initiated by your predecessor regarding corruption in power? Because, indeed, the things are loud, they talk a lot about them, and are they being introduced, or are they being turned after the release of the intercessors? This impression is made up of those who were in charge of these matters, and they were also released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u214	In terms of numbers. This number represents the number that is real today. So it's fixing the state of affairs for today. Fixing it in law does not allow you to increase this number. With regard to criminal cases that have been violated and investigated by the Security Service or other law enforcement agencies, none of these cases have been closed, suspended, and the composition of the investigation teams since my appointment has changed, and I do not plan to change it, unless I add other investigators and operational workers to it if such a need arises.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u215	Thank you, Igor Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u216	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday our committee discussed the matter very actively and thoroughly. We come up with this proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. As a result of the situation. We live 9 years after the adoption of the Constitution, a constitutional requirement on the approval of the number and structure of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Department of State Protection has not yet been implemented. For more than a year, there is an illegal structure of the external intelligence service that has been removed from the Ukrainian Security Service. Under the Constitution, such structures can only be created by the laws of Ukraine, in which case this is done by the President's decree. There have been many references to the President of the former and present, and here I have received only an answer to the promise that this will be removed. So we have to figure out the number of these services. If you don't want us to consider the budget of this institution, because there's no legal number. That's why we have to do it. But we think we have to do this, confirm the number only for 2006. Why? Now this system, like all law enforcement agencies, is undergoing a reform phase. So far, the concept of reform has not even been agreed upon. So we have to keep track of the figure that is today. And another fact, our committee did not satisfy the formula contained in article 1 of the draft general structure law. This article does not answer what this service does when the legislature in the Constitution writes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves a general, organizationally approved structure of the President, it is meant that the law should be a general structure of what this structure does. We'll do it for the second reading. We dealt with these issues with the ministry’s management, but since it was not possible to reconcile with the subject of the right to legislative initiatives, we were unable to do so. We'll do that for the second reading. So we ask you to support our proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u217	Georgie Korniyovich, and there is no definition in the special law of what should be repeated here?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u218	That's the thing. No, no, no, no. The point is that the law adopted before the adoption of this Constitution needs to be reviewed. This is the first time. Second, there have been changes that need to be recorded in the law, not in the President's decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u219	I see. Sign up for questions. Yeah, three minutes. You son of a bitch. It's a walkie-talkie.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u220	Fucking Communist faction. Georgi Korniyovich, me. I have a question. Well, this bill came to us right now with the new head of the Security Service. But how long will this horde continue in the Security Service because people are asking, our voters, and we remember in 1991, when our Soviet Union collapsed, what an horde was in the KGB when all our secrets were passed on to the Americans and so far the consequences are still coming. When it's over. As the committee responds to what is happening today in the Security Service, these press conferences, which are being held by the former head of the Security Service, revealing resonances and pointing to corruption in the state. What, did the head go out and all the criminal cases ended? How, then, does our committee react?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u221	As a lawyer and as a parliamentarian, I have to draw your attention to the fact that neither the parliamentary committees nor the Supreme Council as a whole have a bearing on human resources issues. We are concerned about the situation, and we express it in the form in which it is possible to do so when it comes to matters on the parliamentary committee. Indeed, it is not just the Security Service — how many of us have changed defence ministers, and it is known how this area of our national life has affected us. It's all very clear. Sadly, though, we have no influence. I think that once the Act on Amendments to the Constitution and the prerogative of the Supreme Council and Parliamentary Committees becomes effective, then we will have the opportunity to effectively influence these processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u222	Sergey Ratushniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u223	Georgi Korniyovich, please tell me, can the Security Service issue a truly legitimate verdict on corruption, which is unknown only to the dead and the deaf, the Dusty Queen and the company, when the President, who appoints the head of the Ukrainian Security Service under our Constitution, says, "I am sure there is nothing there?" That's the first question. It's a sign. And can it be expected that the Security Service will deliver anything other than the President's order? That's the first one. And the second question. Tell me, what line in the expenditure budget is the article on "knockers", the so-called "informers"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u224	The second question. The Supreme Council approves the budget for the Ukrainian Security Service, and it is distributed to us according to the internal budget. It's about the first question. I can only share your opinion that when the President claims that he has entrusted such institutions to the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service to check the signals, gave a ten-day deadline, and stated that he is confident that nothing will be found at this point, it is a guide. In a normal country -- I'm not talking about a democratic legal development anymore -- it's impossible. Unfortunately, this is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u226	And then, if you want me to. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't bend to any authority. Everything else depends on the people entrusted with the job. I would like to believe that we have people working in the Security Service today who are governed by law, conscience, honor, order, not by some directives of questionable origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u227	Thank you. Georgi Korniyovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, we'll still have a chance to communicate. On Friday, we are listening to the report of the Crime Prevention Committee, and we will have these factors, so that we will have the opportunity. Dear colleagues, will we discuss or vote? Dear colleagues! Let us do this: Seven national deputies are registered. If they agree one minute at a time. One minute at a time. Please, Sergey Zizko. One minute. After him, Puzakov. Giddyup, let's go to the rostrum, 'cause your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u228	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Well, in short, you have to say, but today, if you compare numbers, well, developed countries with developed democracy, for example, the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States of America by 10,000. The population is one employee. We've got one B.B.I. co-worker for about a thousand people. So in other words, the BSS network is ten times denser relative to the population. And on what grounds can we fortify such a structure, or because the potential threats to Ukraine’s national security are greater, or because our experts are less qualified? Second of all, we don't understand, it's not deciphered here, which subsections are made up of structure. The number of these units, their functional responsibilities, remains out of frame. For example, incomprehensiblely, what is the difference between the scientific institutions of the BSS and the scientific research institutions of their state? Do they work effectively? Well, what's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u229	Thank you. Thank you. The thought is understood, fellow believers. She's right, and that's what the head of the profile committee's been talking about. Puzakov gives the word to Aleksandrovsky, followed by Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I believe that the bill needs to be supported and the decision of the relevant committee is balanced and correct. But I would like to pay attention for one more moment. Georgi Korneevich rightly said that it was necessary to define not only the number but also the functions and tasks of the structure. I think that when the committee, or the service, is working on the bill, we need to pay attention to the next moment. A new duty officer comes in and the one who leaves begins to publicly claim that he has a bag of compromises. Here comes the one who's been replaced, who goes to the rostrum and publicly declares that I have a bag of compromises. I think that in this law, in another law, in the third law, there must be a clear explanation as to whether the former head of the service has the right to declare publicly that he knows something and can say something. I understand you left there and your knowledge stayed there. It's your personal knowledge, and you have no right to divulge public information, state secrets. That's why I think we've only had 15 years in Ukraine: that's what Marchuk said, now the Turk is talking. I hope it's a practice someday, but it'll stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u231	Melniczuk Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u232	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has been identified and will support the bill. And this has already been talked about by the Head of the Profile Committee, which certainly has to be done to confirm today's number of BSSs and thus enable us to budget support this service. I propose to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u233	Please, Hiccup Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u234	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think Igor Vasilovich here has somehow not answered the question he was asked about the conclusions made by our administration. And I think those conclusions, they're right. So if we support this bill, we can say that we have to vote numbers, I think we still have to work on what really kept this service from doing some economic work, so they're looking for scrap metal, looking for the wrong problems that are in this service. And really, we need to make sure that we don't have to go to the military at the expense of that service. So these are all the wishes that our administration has made in further consideration of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u235	Please, Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u236	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Party Dear colleagues! The case has moved from a dead point, and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party is thanking the President of Ukraine for following the rules and requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, and in this case compliance with the requirements of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which requires the approval of the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service. But this is only the first step, because the Ukrainian Security Service's leadership may not have informed the President that the service requires extensive reform, a copy of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, which does not now meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, which will be definitively left behind by service, or whether military counter-intelligence will remain there. There's actually a chapter in service for today. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports the adoption of the law in its first reading for one year, 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u237	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u238	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Somehow you and I didn't notice that during that time, suddenly in this security unit, we took away the entire service, took away several thousand people in intelligence. They work without law. On one occasion, we did not notice that there were nine of the 21 units left. This was until the new leadership took place. Thus, contrary to this, the Security Service Act was not repealed or annulled. I'd like the profile committee to reflect the willingness of everyone to reform the structure to change the law. The law hasn't changed, and we're about to put the law under orders? Let's do the opposite. Let the decrees go under the law. That's the way it's supposed to be, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u239	Thank you. Chubarova, please. Well, let's get this over with. Let me finish Yuri Anatolyovich. Chubarov is there with motive, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u240	That's why I'm finishing up, reverends. I suggest that we accept in the first reading. But to make these changes, I agree that for 2006 alone. Because if you're going to spit, you're going to have to give a lift to reform, but you don't have to cut into a living service right now. So let's take it, write it in 2006. And let's ask, can our intelligence team be equal to the FBI together? together in sum. There's 41,000, and we have 42. It's two states, and we're alone. So I'd like us to predict all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u241	But we're a serious state. Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u242	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to say that, in addition to the importance of the number of WTO structures, there is a question of the principles of personnel policy in this structure. We want to, we don't want to, but today there are so many stereotypes that were born in the past. So in Soviet times, the main structure that opposed the fight against Crimean Tatars for their return to their homeland was the KGB. Clearly, Crimean Tatars not only did not work in the KGB, but they were close, let's say, had nothing to do with this structure. We've got an HQ today. A BSS to track and defend the interests of the Ukrainian State, territorial integrity, and so forth. But what I'd like to say is that the non-admission of people, professionals from certain professions, to work at the BSC for reasons of ethnic mistrust is to preserve the stereotypes that were in the KGB. I think that's what you should call it when you're on the air.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, a lively discussion took place. I remind you once again, really, the question is quite a matter of social interest, but you and I have put into the agenda for tomorrow's report of the profiling committee and we will be listening to all the forces, including the Head of Service, and we will be able to ask him more questions than ever before, and today it's specifically about numbers. I think that the right ones, both the head of the committee, and those who have spoken that in all situations we should be glad that for the first time in accordance with the Constitution the service has fulfilled its constitutional duty and has given its number. This is encouraging, and it is encouraging. And I think that's a good thing. Absolutely right are those colleagues who have caught a wider circle of problems than the total. But this does not apply to this law. This should apply to the basic law and we would like to see, in fact, the basic law on the Security Service introduced all the positions that we have been talking about here and perhaps a wider range of issues to be governed by the service, not by the presidential decree, but by the basis of the basic law. I think we have every reason today to adopt this bill in the first reading, as the committee of profile suggests, and to work with it so that we can close this constitutional requirement in the near future and thank the service that is coming to us on this issue. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft law on the totality of the Ukrainian Security Service, registration number 8175. Please vote. Based on the base. First reading. [[13:50:58]] For 328 Thank you. Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to the section for re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Here we have two bills relating to the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Occupational and Labour Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, with proposals by the President dated 07.07.2005. Registration number 4595. And the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 20.07.2005. 5699. Because, here are the reporters in both bills the same, let's speed it up, discuss it at the same time, and let's give them the opportunity to come up with two bills at the same time. Therefore, I invite you to a co-report on the two bills of Minister of Labour and Social Policy, John Jakovitch Sahanya. Let us also welcome our recent colleague, a longtime minister of social policy, with a fair return to office. Please. Three minutes for two bills for that to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u244	Thank you. I'll try, dear colleagues, to brief you. The President of Ukraine expressed his constitutional approval of the proposal for both bills. As a result of working with the Supreme Council committee, with the author of the bill, we will be able to find, consider, compromise decisions, and we will be in the office where it is now distributed to you, and we would like to consider and adopt this bill in the version that you have on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u245	I mean, both. Thank you, Ivan Jacobovich. Have a seat, please. Now, Valeriy Mikhailovich Suškevitch, please, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the bill has been worked out for a year and a half by an appropriate ministry and department, by all the public organizations of persons with disabilities. For the first time this bill has reconciled the interests of disabled people and employers, it saves tens of hundreds of enterprises from being destroyed by social organizations. As a result of some tax dollars that are not understood today. In June, you and I adopted this bill with 296 votes. Then there was an incomprehensible veto. It's not clear, because I know that the President supports the solution to the problems of people with disabilities. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I'd like to say that we've worked, almost 90% of what's written in the proposals, is counted. That's what's going on in this law, and I want to remind you that you've been approached in the towers, that there have been social organizations of people with disabilities, their businesses, and they've asked us to save these businesses, so that the employment of people with disabilities can take place in Ukraine not only for one million healthy citizens of Ukraine, but also for people with disabilities. I ask you to support this bill and vote it so that we can really ensure the employment of the disabled. When it comes to the second bill on the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is a process that the state must do with regard to the disabled in order to enter society. 14 years in the Law, the individual program of rehabilitation, it's not being implemented. And that's why this bill has been designed in such a way that, gradually, once again, I emphasize, gradually fund an individual rehabilitation programme in such a way that a disabled person can provide for himself in society so that he can, in fact, be a member of society. We worked very carefully on all the remarks that came from the Cabinet of Ministers from the President's Secretariat. I'm asking you to support the rehabilitation of the disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u247	Thank you. For the motivation of the vote, the Noschenka microphone, please and we will vote, and Zibenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u248	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Volodymyr Litwina People's Party. I just want to say that the first bill first, the second one also defines the most important financing issues. The problem of disability and their return to society cannot be solved at the expense of the disability fund today. The Disability Fund, it's funded for central government budget programs. Everything else is on the basis of fines that are collected from enterprises. There may be fines, there may be no fines. As a result, these two bills regulate these issues or dynamic, harmonious funding from various sources of funding. That's all that matters. And the second. I think Minfin should, and the Cabinet of Ministers, agree to put in a penny now, but bring the disabled back to a healthy life, a working life, and he'll take care of himself. I support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u249	Yes, please, DiBenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u250	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dibenko, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these two documents are extremely well-worked, worked as far as possible in this situation at all. And the best thing to do is, well, at least after the first document, we beat the President's veto with you and preserved it in its original form, which you and I adopted. But going to the veto is to risk the law, we can lose it. Which is why I'm asking, honourable colleagues, to support the opinion of the committee of profile that these two laws should be adopted in a new order. The chance to preserve the law, the achievements that we have today in this area, in that case, is much higher. So I very much ask everyone, regardless of their faction, to vote in favour of these two documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u251	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a single opinion: the profile committee, the president, the deputies. So let's put it to a vote. I am voting for adoption in a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on occupational work rehabilitation of disabled persons, registration number 4594. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u252	Dear colleagues! Support the disabled, please! Please vote! Please support our Ukraine. [[13:58:16]] For 312
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u253	Copy that. I am voting for the adoption in a new edition, taking into account the Ukrainian President's proposals for the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act, registration number 5699. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u254	Support the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. [[13:58:47]] For 315 Copy that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u255	Be healthy!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-06-m0.u256	And you too will be healthy. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we've got two draft rulings here, and we're about to take a break. Please listen. There are two draft decrees on the withdrawal of certain laws returned with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Let's hit them. So I'm putting to the vote a motion for a motion for a motion to withdraw some of the laws returned with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 7731. A committee of professionals is offering to support him. Vote. To support the President in this case. [[13:59:42]] For 268. Copy that. And a similar decision by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons to remove some of the draft laws of Ukraine, registration number 8050. Please vote. [[14:00:14]] For 285 Thank you. So we're absolutely, the pharmacy in the pen, 2:00, we're on break until 4:00. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed.
