ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. National deputies, please register. [[16:04:10]] There are 427 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced in public. We're working on it. Please, Shufrica microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have witnessed a very serious situation that took place in the session room before lunch. We don't understand why individual factions today are afraid, or can't we call it, admit to ourselves that their deputies are being persecuted? Well, that's, that's, maybe that's how they treat their colleagues. But why do teachers have to suffer, why do doctors, social workers, because they have the right to express themselves? Do we not understand why the decision to set up a commission of inquiry was not supported today, and what would explain the situation of political persecution? Considering that this issue was raised at the end of the job, we ask again to vote on it. We hope that we will vote in the agenda for the creation of an appropriate commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u3	Yes, I see those who want to exchange their thoughts. Please sign up. Yes, five minutes. Please, Bondarenko, our Ukraine faction. Get ready for Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Michael Kosev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u5	Please, Kosova Mikhail's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u6	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, well, I understand that when in one area, let's say, recently, I read a report on the Zaporozhye area, 300 people were discovered, 300 employees of district and territorial election committees, who were in grave violation of articles 157 and 158 of the Criminal Code on elections, and they're being held accountable, I want to ask you: is this a political question or a criminal one? But of course it's both political and criminal, because it's a crime based on politics. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u7	Please, Victor Borszewski, the Communist faction. He's got the Homutinian behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u8	Borszewski, Dnepropetrovska, faction of communists. I finally understand that, as with the representatives of the past government, there are people closely associated with the criminal past. But respectable colleagues, the issue, one of the most important issues of parliamentaryism, is monitoring. So let us vote today, and let the commission we have created be reported. And let's check it out, create a new commission, and control the issues that divide society today. I therefore propose to vote in a package: to hear the report of the Commission of Omelchenko and to establish an investigative commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u9	Please, Vitaly Hometic. Follow him, Malinovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u11	Please, Alexander Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, surely "Our Ukraine" does not vote in favour of creating a commission because it believes that everything is done in justice. But I'm surprised why it doesn't support the creation of a socialist faction, and the faction that has always fought for justice, for the protection of people, for the rule of law. Why doesn't she give one vote to figure it out? Keep going. I want to tell a colleague from "Our Ukraine" who was speaking. Creating this commission does not mean one-sided testing. If there has been pressure, as they say, on the other hand, they may also turn to this commission and show that there has been persecution on others. That is, the commission can handle it objectively. It's not a legal commission, it's really a political commission, and I think we need to support and address very, above all, socialists, others to support the creation of this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u13	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u14	I ask you to give the word to John Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u15	Please, it's Bokh John's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Just now, a member of the Party of the Regions has made claims to a faction of socialists, as if we don't want to create such a commission. I want to bring Mr. Stoyan to the attention that the Socialist faction on the Conciliation Council has put forward a compromise -- please listen to the report of the Georgia Gongadze, Igor Aleksanderov and other resonance issues, and then we will create this commission. We're ready for this. But your faction's head has definitely given up on that, so these questions, I think, should be addressed to Rajisy Vasilovny, not to the socialists for not wanting justice and justice. That's not the point, Mr. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u17	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u18	Thank you. I propose to the people's deputies not to intrude, as suggested by the former head of the Supreme Council, and not to combine two unrelated issues. I ask you to pass the word to Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u19	Please, Gregory Omelchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u20	Gregory Omelchenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Honorable colleagues from all MP groups and factions! Just think about one thing. For five years, like the unburied remains of George Gongadze’s body, his mother’s eyes were wept. What is the situation of the wife and children? And we didn't make it in three and a half. For years, listen to a report from the commission of inquiry. So I'm asking not only the report of the commission of inquiry, Adam Ivanovich, but, as requested by the commission of inquiry, the information of the Attorney-General and the report of the commission of inquiry on the outcome of the investigation of the circumstances of the murder and the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov and other resonance cases and not to put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u21	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u22	Deputies! You've had the opportunity to demonstrate your moral opposition and civic stand in order to know the truth about terrible crimes, it's about the disappearance and murder of journalist Gongadze. You didn't want to do it. And today you want to speculate in order to cover up and avoid responsibility for certain criminal elements, you're covering yourself up with politics, human rights and the pursuit of justice. Where was your morals and justice back then today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u23	Yes, communication is complete. It was called a standing name. Please, a line, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Of course, we have the right to know the truth about the murder of Gongadze, and the faction is ready to look at it, but I don't think it needs to be done in a package, it's different things. But we have a right to know about the legality of Kolesnik's detention and the legality of Bodelnik's release, and it's also so that it doesn't go before what you then see is not solved in time and now the back door. That's why we're proposing today to know the truth about these people, to know the truth about why they're still chasing teachers, doctors, other people, to create a commission. Again, in this commission, both sides may turn. So I propose that we put once again to the vote the inclusion in the order of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, well, we all understand that we need to find a way out of the situation we've been in. You've already had the opportunity to speak. Which time we got into, because if it wasn't there, no matter how much we discussed with you, no matter how many breaks we had, we didn't hold any meetings of the Conciliation Council, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how many times we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, no matter how much we broke down, I think you and I are obliged to find a way out of this situation today. Therefore, at the request of part of the factions, I am once again voting on the question of the return to the order of the day and on the question of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Colossnik, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan and other facts of violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens requiring the assessment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:15:25]] For a hundred and In factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 51, People's Party - 7, Socialists - 1, Block Timoshenko - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 21, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 14, "Union" - 1, non-fractional - 6. [[United]] Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. Wait for the bags, wait. What is the need to apply the package to some? During the meeting of the Conciliation Council, representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" supported this idea by representatives of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I saw an understanding of the representatives of some other factions, the essence of which was that these factions were willing to support the proposal, if any. And then I looked at Puppy. If in the name of the decrees, be careful if there are no specific names in the name of the decrees. So I'm betting on your consideration of the proposal, please be careful about the proposal. You will first listen, and then you will ask for words, a proposal to name the issue in this way: "The creation of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of violations of citizens' rights and freedoms." Once again, we've taken into account the factions' proposal to take out specific names. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the question of the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of violations of citizens' rights and freedoms. Please vote. [[16:18:21]] For-129 Thus, no offer has been made. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, People's Party - 16, Socialists - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, Social Democrats - 5, "One Ukraine" - 7, Democratic Ukraine - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 6, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Alliance - 13, Postfraction - 3. Thus, none of the proposals raised the required number of votes. Therefore, we continue to consider the matter. Therefore, we continue to consider the matter. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. I repeat the packages here are completely inappropriate. Dear colleagues, I'm back. I explain Gregory Omelchenka and explain to the rest of the people's deputies. Two factions took a break from forming a temporary commission of inquiry. And the Conciliation Council met on this issue. It's not the Omelchenka report, it's the creation of a temporary investigator. I'm canceling out the Supreme Council commission. I'll cut it short. And so please make a statement to two factions, look for two factions, I deny you. Dear colleagues, I address those who have requested breaks. You see that your proposals don't work, you don't even want to vote for some of them. You don't want to vote because the last offer just went to 129 votes. So let's look for options and look for the required number of votes. Sign up, five minutes, for suggestions from the wise. Please, on the monitor. Insomnia Boris, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u26	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Honorary colleagues, usually the commission of inquiry, are created when the investigation and the authorities do not carry out the investigation, i.e. the investigation is blocked. Now we have a unique case. So the commission is formed by reason of, well, our colleagues from the "Regions" and the Social Democrats are offering to form commissions on the basis that the investigating authorities are working well, that they are actively investigating. [[United]] That's weird! Together, we probably agree that bandits should be in prison. It's about specific things. So these matters are at the centre of public attention and without consideration of this special commission. There is also no need to attract public attention. With regard to the Alexandrov and Gongadze Commission, it's strange to see the same colleagues as they once have a selective approach, and we suggest, "Our Ukraine," but still listen to Gregory Omelchenk on this issue. However, the Supreme Council needs to move on to social programs and finally start to do what people expect us to do, not just turn here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u27	Yes, please, Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction. Get ready, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It is clear to all today that the oligarchs who came into power today are accounting for the oligars who were in power. They kill, they shoot, they arrest. It may be necessary to make such a commission to reconcile them, or there will be more blood! Let's make such a commission!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u29	Yes, Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine. He's behind him, St. Michael's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, fortunately, there are no people of the Visinski family among us. And I'm asking you to stop being prosecutors. No one has the right to decide a person's fate except for the courts. And by offering this commission, we want the most basic: representatives of the Supreme Council. Please tell me what else must happen in the country in order for the Supreme Council to examine the situation comprehensively on the ground. After she's studied, we'll come out here and make a decision. I'm sure this commission will be established sooner or later. Let's be early. Adam Ivanovich, let's discuss this issue again on the Conciliation Council, and let's make a decision. Our faction will not vote on any issue until this commission is established.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u31	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u32	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u33	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u34	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine states that we are ready to vote in the package and to create a commission and report to the Omelchenka Commission. I don't understand why this question is being blocked. And, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to listen to the proposal of the Socialists and put to the vote that we should vote in the package for a ruling on the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission or the Investigative Commission and the report of the Commission on the Gongadze case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u35	Yes, please, Alexei Malinowski, the Socialist faction. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Gregory Omelchenko. Please, Gregory Omelchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u37	Gregory Omelchenko, Ulya Tymoshenko constituency, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Thank you, Your Honor, for your word. Dear colleagues, we've already come up with a package during the Orange Revolution when we've changed the Constitution and changed the election of the President of Ukraine. And I don't know what other laws are going to change with this dig and so on, the farm. There is the Rules, and each issue should be obeyed separately. Are we going to set up political dances on the remains of Georgia Gongadze and on his mother's wept tears, let's hear the report, that's the requirement of the Regulations. Committee of the Supreme Council, Rules: Within six months you are obliged to listen to the report of the commission of inquiry with the compulsory participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u38	Andrew School, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u39	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Radio and Television Watchers! I want to address, first of all, all of us here and everyone who listens to us here. I would like to point out that you understand one thing: There are two questions here that have somehow been linked, and I cannot understand the connection between them. What is the connection between the desire of today’s, modern, or new opposition to make a commission hearing a report on the Gongadze commission? I can't understand the causal link in this situation! I understand that they are now blocking the rostrum to break the adoption of laws that will simplify the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. They want to tear down the programs that the Cabinet of Ministers has planned so that they can once again throw their chubby finger in the direction of the Cabinet and say, "You see, they're not doing their job." And when "we were robbing the state, then everything was fine." So I would like to emphasize, gentlemen: don't combine the inextricable. The Omelchenk report is one and your proposals are not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u40	The conversation is over. There are two factions here, but one of them has already taken a break: the Socialists and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I remind you that the Socialists and the People's Party have already exercised their right to a break. Therefore, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko should seek another partner to announce the break. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to find a way out of this situation. Well, give Kenzior a word. He has a wise offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u41	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs! Indeed, we can unlock the work of the Supreme Council if, in my opinion, we do one thing. Here are the deputies from the faction of the Regions and the SDPU(o) indignant that, you see, the private residents, the Ukrainian citizens there are being touched by the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs for violating the Electoral Act. If today the members of the SDPU faction had brought their leader Victor Medvedczuk here, who was the chief organizer of the fake election, if they had brought their supporter Kiwalov here in the same way, and they said that let go of those shooters that we had been tasked with forging elections, and we would be responsible, and we would be ready to sit on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u42	Yes, Jaroslav, unfortunately, it was publicist, but there was no offer. How do we get out? Yes, a replica, Rabbit Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I answer to Mr. Kendzior and I address the voters of Ukraine. Today, the names of people who work in educational institutions, in health care in Žitomyrszynska have no problems in their relationship with the prosecutor’s office, who are not involved in counterfeiting or anything else after the previous elections. The point is that they are being printed today by the new authorities, heads of administrations appointed by President Yushchenk, only because they are members of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the Party of the Regions, and had the courage to vote or to think differently during the presidential election campaign. [[united]] That's why we're only talking about this category of people, and we urge you to support, if you're really Democrats, the creation of a commission that would give a proper assessment of these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u44	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, the signature will appear at the Yulia Block of Timoshenko group "The Union" who are asking to announce a recess for 30 minutes. So I'm going to call it a five-hour break. Representatives of factions and groups please rise on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, the next break is over. At night, I see, more and more national MPs, they're getting more and more ready to work, they're grieving for work. Two factions and a group, more loyally, socialists and the Alliance group took a break from. That's right, I'm sorry, Yulia Timoshenko and Soyuz. They are tasked to speak from the Grigory Omelchenka faction. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u46	Gregory Omelchenko, election block of Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, distinguished voters! The questions we want to resolve are really like a road situation, but the solution is to be sought. I'm not a proponent of voting for inclusion in the agenda or consideration by a package, because I'm a lawyer, and that's a violation of the regulation. And maybe for the first time, I'm going to go to this conscious violation so that, after all, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people will hear a report from the commission of inquiry created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine investigating the circumstances of the killings of journalists by George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov and other crimes committed by Ukrainian statesmen. I understand very well that many will not like the conclusions of the commission of inquiry and the facts that will be called, but they will be named. And it will be called that the interim commission of inquiry decided unanimously that the 4 highest officials in the state at the time were Kuchma, Kravchenko, Leonid Derkac and Vladimir Litwin, who were involved in illegal crimes against Georgia Gongadze. Other crimes that were committed by high officials will also be referred to as crimes. From a legal point of view, from the point of view of the Constitution, there is every reason for the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry, which my colleagues from the faction of "Regions" and the Social Democratic Party are proposing, because the matter they are proposing has acquired public resonance. [[united]] Dear colleagues, since the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission, it will soon be three years. Two general prosecutors have changed. Again came the Attorney - General of Ukraine, Piscoon, on whom the Interim Investigation Commission decided unanimously to violate the criminal case against him for falsification and improper performance of the official duties and misinformation of the Ukrainian national deputies. And that's the decision. And he's the Attorney General of Ukraine again. But since 2002, when we were elected by the national deputies of Ukraine to this point, you have never heard a report from the commission of inquiry or the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine. There is a decision by the investigating commission to resign the Attorney General, and it will vote after my report if he does. And to the end. Dearly beloved friends! Knowing that I am going to break the rules, I propose to vote in a package on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, which I am leading, and on the creation of a commission of inquiry that my colleagues are proposing, which is why, I say, such political discussions have arisen. I understand that this is my personal point of view, maybe it's going to cut the faction or other colleagues in the faction of "Our Ukraine," but I want to report to you, and then you're going to make a decision on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission. But we must not tolerate and abuse the memory of Georgia Gongadze. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u47	Yes, dear colleagues, the only one. We're going to vote now, and I'm going to talk about the decision on the Conciliation Council, at least the agreement, because we voted on it. The only thing I want to remind you of is the rule of the Rules, this is article 4.6.4 of the Rules, which is what the report of the Commission does when it officially approved this report, that it is not a report of one person, but a report of the Commission, and when this report is distributed to the members of the Supreme Council when it is distributed to the members of the Supreme Council. [[I want Gregory Omelchenko to listen to me.]] This is page 66 of the Supreme Council Rules, but this is already the case for clarification. As a result, respectable colleagues were expanded during the last conversation of factions and groups around the problems. If in previous sessions we were mainly talking about going back to the question of the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission, then the last meeting was about two factions, or more precisely the faction and the MP group, taking a recess to return to the vote on the matter related to the report of our colleague, Omelchenko. There were various suggestions, that is, to return to the report of this commission, to create a temporary commission of inquiry, as we said, with regard to Kolesnik, Bodelano, and other violations. Another suggestion was to create a temporary commission of inquiry, not naming the names, was in the title without naming the surnames, and to point out immediately that the head of this interim commission of inquiry is hereby confirmed by the Musiyak People's Deputy. And the last, the fourth suggestion that we made in the course of our conversation and communication was to consider these two questions in the package, namely, the question of hearing the Omelchenka report and creating a temporary special commission for Kolesnik and Bodelano. So these are the proposals that we made, and we agreed that I would put these proposals into the session room. So I put it to a vote: who wants to go back to the question of listening to the report of the Grigory Omelchenka Commission on Gongadze and other journalists. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:21:38]] For 139 In factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 5, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 6, People's Party - 13, Socialists - 27, Block of Timoshenko - 15, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social-Democratic Party - 0, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 6, Democratic Initiatives - 0, "Union" - 1, non-fractional - 8. [[united]] I put it to a vote: who, in order to return to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day consideration of the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan and other facts of violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens that are causing, require an assessment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's have a vote. [[17:22:54]] For 203 In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 51, People's Party - 27, Socialists - 1, Block of Timoshenko and Ukrainian People's Party - Zero, Social-Democratic Party - 22; "One Ukraine" - 2; "Democratic Ukraine" - 19; Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 7; "Democratic Initiatives" - 14; "Union" - 1; non-fractional - 4. [[United]] Now pay attention, fellow believers. I'll put it to a vote. Please, Unburnt microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u48	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. I want to point out that since the draft resolution with the names, I want to publish those specific changes, those texts that we're ready to support. The name of the commission and the first paragraph should be as follows: the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. That's both the name and the first point, that's how it sounds. Second item. To elect the Ukrainian national deputy Musiak Viktor as head of the interim commission of inquiry. The third item is deleted, but anything else can be left. It's for protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, now. Bandoon, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The concept of human rights is so broad that it is also a human right to education, health, and the environment. If we take it that way, we'll swim. It has to be written: Human rights in law enforcement. And then everything will be specific or criminal. Let's specify and vote. Then we'll be dealing with specific issues. If human rights are simply human rights, it is the right of a person to form a family or to have a similar friendship with himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u51	Storm and we'll vote. Shurma Igor's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u52	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished listeners who are now listening to what is happening in the session hall. It is true that in the elections Ukraine divided into two parts - Ukraine into elections and Ukraine after the elections. There is a dispute over Kolesnik’s arrest, about legitimate actions, and according to Bodelain. There's one big, little problem. One political power in "Our Ukraine" does not vote for the commission. We claim that there is a violation of legislation. They claim that there are no such violations. What they lack in clicking on the button and setting it, whether it is a violation or not, whether there are political pressures or not. And I would like to remind the people of Ukraine that the faction "Our Ukraine" does not vote for Gongadze's problem to be heard in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision. The charges will then be against each other. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision, be careful. We approach the vote of one of the proposals that the Conciliation Council received the largest number of votes as a result of the signal vote, and which now has a chance to pass. This is what it's about. That we should not mention names in the title of our decrees. That's the first one. And the second is to make some adjustments to what the Bill of Judgement itself proposes at number 7376, which is Boris Bespaly. Let me do it again. The name of the commission will sound. Wait, don't rush. The general always has to be more resilient, and the more he's almost full. It is proposed that we call this commission, be careful to vote deliberately on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens in law enforcement. That's what it sounded like? I mean, I repeat the proposal of Bespalogo, which, as it were, was clarified by the national MP Bandurka. That's one thing. The other one. So that we're in the draft order that's already given to you by number 7376, the first paragraph is repeated again, as this commission is called, as I said. The second item is to elect the Ukrainian national deputy Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich as head of this commission. The third item is about choosing the deputy head of the commission to be taken away. In the fourth paragraph, to clarify that not one representative from each faction, but to submit to the factions according to a proportional number, one in 20, and we have established this quota in the course of the Conciliation Council, but it is imperative that every faction and group, even where there are fewer than 20 national deputies, be represented by one representative in this interim commission of inquiry. About quotas, I'll stress again, yeah. As we agreed to, and we spoke about it on a conciliatory board. In this option, my dear colleagues, I would like to take your permission to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and to consider the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens in law enforcement. Please vote. [[17:29:55]] For 148 By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 9, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, People's Party - 27, Socialist, Block of Timoshenko, Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democratic Party - Zero, "One Ukraine" - 11, Democratic Ukraine - 17, Industrial Party - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 0, "The Union" - 13, non-fractional - 4. [[united]] Well, wait, we'll go through the vote, then. Well. I'll sifter the microphone, please. We should have voted, not for reasons of height.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u54	Adam Ivanovich, we may be blamed in various ways, but we have always followed every arrangement. We frankly said that we believe that society today should know about specific cases where our citizens are being persecuted for political reasons. And we watched with interest how "Our Ukraine" tries to invalidate this statement, to level, indeed, the events that are happening today. And notice, they don't vote for Gongadze, so that we know what happened there. Perhaps they already know and are probably already afraid of this report. But they don't vote for their own proposal to create a so-called nameless human rights commission of inquiry because they don't care about human rights, they're only interested in power and persecution of those who disagree. I am convinced that this will be properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I must say that if I now name the names of those who raised their hand on the Conciliation Council for the proposal, and now you see how voted those who spoke there, there will be far more results. I just don't want to make it public. So let's not blame each other, please. Martinenko, and we'll vote next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends! On Nestor Ivanovich's report: I reaffirm the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" that we are willing to vote in favour of the commission decision after the text of this decree has been completed, not by vote. I also endured this offer on the Conciliation Council. As for other things, why we don't vote on Gongada, the question is this: we want to stand by the procedure of this issue, so that we get a report, so that we can stand the procedure, not be a pianist on this issue. This is a matter for the prosecutor's office today, other investigative agencies that are working in this direction and should bring it to an end as soon as possible. This is our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, don't get excited. We need to vote on one more proposal. There was another suggestion, as you were told, that we should vote on the report of the Gongada commission and on the establishment of the Temporary Commission of Inquiry on Kolesnik and Bodelano. Who's in charge of holding such a full vote, please make up your mind. [[17:33:46]] For a hundred and The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 19, People's Party - 0 Socialists - 28, Block Timoshenko - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 21, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Union" - 0", "Afterfraction" - 1. Thus, honourable colleagues, the results of the vote have shown that you and I can come up with a positive outcome. And so I propose to support my colleague Martinenko's proposal that, by tomorrow, the initiators of the proposals take into account what we spoke about on the Conciliation Council, prepare a new text of the draft decision. And if he's ready tomorrow, this new text of the decree, we'll vote tomorrow morning. In connection with that. Motives of what? Motives of what, please? The motives of the last vote? It has already been voted on, the last vote. This before the vote was due to talk about the last vote. So, dear fellows, once again I ask the initiators to make a draft decision: let's not really be out of the voice, but as Nepal has suggested, and the national deputy Bandurka, given what we've been saying. Practically the same determination remains in your form, as you suggested. Shall we work? Then at this evening's meeting, I declare the Supreme Council closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm informing the people's deputies that at the Conciliation Board we've come to the conclusion that on Wednesday we'll be working solely on Wednesday's work plan, despite the fact that we haven't passed many of your questions today, but tomorrow that week's plan will be implemented tomorrow. Good-bye.
