ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:08]] The 412 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! 64 years ago, the flames of war, later called the Great Motherland, broke out in western Ukraine. During 1225 days and nights until October 28, 1944, Ukrainian land was the scene of devastating battles and no less terrible occupation. The fiery shaft, which twice rolled through it, did not escape the unheard - of atrocities of the fascists from any inhabited area, no home, and no family. It is unlikely that the number of our fellow citizens lying on the front and in the lines of resistance destroyed during the punitive acts of starvation, cold, and insurmountable labor will ever be accurately calculated. There are different data in this regard. The most famous figure -- over 7 million lives lost by Ukraine -- has for decades left no one indifferent. And it will likewise glean the hearts of future generations. June 22 is officially fixed in Ukraine as a day of mourning and honoring the memory of war victims. This is a tribute to the prowess of the defenders and liberators of the homeland and the memories of the peaceful citizens whose lives have been taken by war, it is a reminder of world aggression, militarism, and man - hate ideologies. It is not an agonizing fear of history and a severe lesson that it teaches, an appeal to nations and nations to preserve the most expensive: peace, peace, and understanding. Please honor the memory of our fellow countrymen, all who fell asleep in this terrible war for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues: Reznik Igor Josephovich, aged 60, and Widow of Gennady Josephovich. Let us greet them, wish them health and every success. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 21 June 2005. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, one law was passed, five bills were adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was designed to be redrafted, nine bills were rejected, 10 regulations were adopted, and four draft regulations were rejected. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Leschchenka to the President of Ukraine on the measures taken by the executive branch to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:00]] For-123 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies: Turmanov, Zviagilski, Volinec - to the President of Ukraine on the draft Presidential Decree on urgent measures to address the problems of coal reform.” I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:30.]] For-166 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:53]] For 211 The decision is not taken. What's the procedure? There's no procedure here. I can put the vote back on the motion. I'll do it again. Just a minute. I am voting for the return to the request of the people’s deputies Turmanov, Zveglski, Voluntary. [[10:08:31]] For 246 Request accepted. Ah, it's a return, dear colleagues. We're back on request. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:59]] For 274 Request accepted. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council for the provision of official information regarding the implementation of payments in the current year related to the performance of parliamentary duties by national deputies that violate the requirements of nonconformity with other types of activity. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Culture and Tourism, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kyiv City Head for Ignorance of Decisions of the Government Authorities and the Local Self-Government for Emancipating the Memory of the First President of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Michael Gruszewski. [[CARMAZIN, TANK, KURAS]] Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister for the non-elimination of children’s day camps in the city of Eupatoria. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the restoration of justice in the payment of taxes for compensation by agricultural enterprises to the Pension Fund for the payment of pension benefits under article 13 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, regarding the situation in the company “Elizavetgrad transport company” of Kirovgrad. Paul SILLY to the Prime Minister about the location of the Museum of History of Kiev. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister on the regulation and regulation of the development of the Lopushnian oil plant in the Chernivets region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the movement of goods and other property at the point of entry through the State border at Gostomel Airport. [[BURJAK, HEALTH, OSICA, AND OTHERS]] Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the promotion of the gasification of housing for pensioners of the village of Kozirk Oczakowsk district of Mikolaiiv region. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister on the status of use of agricultural land in 2005. Vassila KALINČUKA to the Prime Minister regarding the insufficient compensation for the damage caused to the territorial community of the Lubashiv district of Odessa as a result of the construction of the Kyiv-Odes motorway. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Prime Minister for the lack of funding of State budget subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development of the regions, for the implementation of prejudice measures and for the prevention of technological catastrophes in housing and utilities and other emergency municipal property and for the execution of investment projects. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the cultural building in the micro-region of the Cerkas region’s sugar plant. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the car to the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the group. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister for failure to comply with the Ministry of Industrial Policy with the Presidential Order of Ukraine and the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the placement of judicial bodies. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Prime Minister for the annulment of the decision of the Cherkasian Mesquikonka to organize a pay-per-view parking near the residences on the street of Vatutina. Groups of National Deputies (OLUYKO, LUKASHUK, NOVAK, to the Prime Minister on the critical situation surrounding the construction of the Chernobyl Water Station, the main source of water supply for the city of Hmelnick. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister for Youth and Sport, Head of the Kyiv City Administration, Kyiv City Head, Prosecutor General for the Prevention of the Elimination of the leading Children's Institute – Kyiv Palace, Children's and Youth, for the Discharge of His Land for Commercial Structures, for the Review of Decisions on the Borders of the Palace and the Users of His Territory. VALLERY TO THE Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund, to solve the problem of the arrest of Ukrainian aircraft. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the crisis situation with the launch of the Salkow sugar plant in Kirovograd. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister for the construction of a state-owned historical-memory package of victims of famine. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Prime Minister for funding, in accordance with the National Programme for Education of the Population of Ukraine, the Dniprojnijnijska Metallurgical College. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the protection of the constitutional rights of former employees of the Herson Herson Helmsonian Community in the area of debt of wages to bankrupt enterprises. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the closure of general education schools in the Malin district of Žitomir Region for reasons of lack of funds for their maintenance. Ivan TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister regarding the Government's measures to remove the tractor-carrying vehicle from the crisis. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister in connection with a sharp increase in sugar prices during the summer cooking period. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Cabinet of Ministers to finance the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Malushka Brezni district of Ravensk for its entry into service until September 1, 2005. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General on the falsification and falsification of documents relating to the change of the citizen’s will. Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. Taras ČERNOVOL to the Attorney General for the release of the head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Kolesnikov Region Party. Michaela RODIONOVA to the Attorney General for the construction of a parking lot in Kiev on the street of Stallski. Mr. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney General about the delay in the investigation of a criminal case by the department of investigation of the Shevchenkov district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kiev. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Attorney-General on the reply to the parliamentary inquiry concerning the situation at the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence “Kremenchuq career management Quartz”. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney General for the termination of the agreement and forcing the collection of funds into the account of the private assembly and construction company Speczavutobud, which was submitted as a subscription to the UK company. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney General for non-reaction by the District Attorney’s Office for the violation of the law by officials of the Department of Municipal Property of the Somali City Council. Anatolya MOROSA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association of Mikhail's private enterprise Agrotechservis of Zaporozhi region. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the prosecutor of the Primorski district of Odessa. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA and Leonidas ISAYEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the verification of the truthfulness of the evidence of the guilt of the Head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Boris Kolesnikov Regional Party. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General regarding the gross violation of the legal rights of land and property owners of the village of Oceretny of the Krivoozer district of Mikolaiiv. Alexander Omelchenka to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the capture of the premises of a closed company called “Medtechnika” on the Street of Krestets in Kiev and the illegal actions of officials. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the early termination of the authority of the Sukholiman village head of the Odessa Region and the formal attitude of the officials of the prosecutor’s office to the examination of applications and complaints. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs on the violation of legislation during the privatization of the administrative premises of the Souvrova City Association of the Yampil Winnicki district. To the Attorney General, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE, on a formal request for membership in connection with criminal activity in recent years by local authorities, law enforcement agencies, prosecutors for investigating illegal land grabbing and stealing grains in the Kirovograd region, which was carried out under the cover of the former President’s administration. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney-General on the legality of the actions of officials and decisions of the Mountain Rural Council of the Borispil district regarding land ownership. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General for the corruption and illegal actions of the Sumi law enforcement agencies in protecting the employees of the “R e m t h t h i a” legal rights. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the prosecution’s responsibility for the abuse of power, the inaction to combat corruption, and the discrediting of law enforcement agencies. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney-General for the prosecution of officials who are responsible for the purposeless and ineffective use of budget for the construction of the Kiev-Odes road. Victor SLAUTI and John VERNIDOUBOV to the Attorney General for the release from prison of the head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Kolesnik Region Party, taking into account the unsatisfying state of his health. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of property rights and civil rights of residents of the former Kyiv region’s “Borispilsk” CCP. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Peter PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General on the release of the head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Kolesnik Region Party. Ms. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Agriculture’s policy regarding the purposeless use of funds. Andria SKILE to the Attorney General for the baseless refusal of employees of the Chief Housing Administration of the Kyiv City Administration for the registration of acts of admission of apartments. People of Kirichenko and Taras ČERNOVOL to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on violations of legislation committed by law enforcement officials during the arrest and conduct of the head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Kolesnik Region Party. Oleg BILORUS to the Authorized Human Rights Council regarding the failure to respond to the parliamentary petitions of the National MP, Yulia Timoshenko, on the Korean case. Jury CARMAZINA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Minister of Interior, Head of the Security Service, Attorney-General for the Procurator-General for the Long-term Violation of Legality, Head of State Auto-Inspectors of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa area, numerous abuse of office, unfounded personnel changes in the composition, undermining the authority of internal affairs authorities. Mr Vladimir PETRENKA to Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Health for the Liberation of Citizen Olar of the Suma Directorate of the Ukrainian State Enterprise “Kretelekom”. Petra SIMONENKA to the Minister of Culture and Tourism for the State Support of the 15th All-Ukrainian Agricultural Festival of Arts Masters and Self-Active Groups of Boromla. Mr. Oleg LUKASUKA and Ms. SASA to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, the Attorney General, the President of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the head of the Krasnoggard District Council for the violation of the rights of the working group of the Krasnoggard children’s music school. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Minister of Education and Science for the appointment of the Rector of the Suma State Teachers’ University of Podbrzezski. Anatolya Moroza to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on transfer to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of the Tokmatice Research Department of the Tokmatic region of Zaporez Region. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Education and Science on the purchase of a school bus for the children of the village of Sloboda in the district of Sumsk. Olega Korsakova and Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors on the legality of construction on the street of Chernobyl in the Municipality of Kiev and illegal actions against local residents. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the fact that the funds for the removal of land for the construction of the Kyiv-Odessa highway in the village of Oretno Krivoozerski district of Mikolai. VALLERY OF CONONOVA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy on Debt from Wages in the State Enterprise “South Concentration”. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Ministry of Defence for the risked immediate neighbourhood of missile-arthillery weapons with the villages of Kamyan and Snečov in the Black region. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Minister of Defence on the problems of social protection of a participant in the elimination of an accident at the Chernobyl AES. Helen BONDARENKO to the Ministry of Defence on the issue of housing for military personnel in A - 2206. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the specificities of the Ministry of Geography of Ukraine, namely the appointment of a South-West Railway in the north-east of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the head of the Kiev State Administration for delaying and providing unreliable information about heating in a residential building in Uzin. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the Restoration of Tram Traffic in the City of Constantine. Boris SLEEP to the Head of the State Tax Administration for refusing to respond to a parliamentary request for verification of compliance with the requirements of tax legislation by the “MASA Invest Group”. Mr. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Head of the Security Service to verify the contacts of the Attorney General with the United States Embassy in Ukraine, his likely recruitment under the guarantee of political asylum, which has signs of treason and violation of the mystery of the Gongadze case. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Head of the National Television and Radio Council on the moral and ethical standards of the “Gentelman Show” programme on the “INTER” channel, which openly slanders the dignity of Ukrainian spiritual acquisitions and promotes contempt for the national symbols of Ukraine. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the Capital Repair of Motorways in the village of Constantine. Viachaslava ANISIMOVA to the Head of the General Audit and Audit Authority for the verification of the legality of the use of the budget of the city of Dniprožinska during the period of Sweden’s stay as a city head. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Head of the Security Service for the verification of Eugene Reddenek’s allegations of illegal armed formations and confirmation or denial of their disarmament and accountability. Ms. FOMENKO to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources regarding the extension of the issuance of State Land Rights Act. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General of the Ukrainian State Postal Service “Krupposta” on the reasons for the lack of telegrams of the “Government” category addressed to the medical staff of the Lviv region on the occasion of the professional holiday. Alexander TKALENKA to the prosecutor of the Cherka district for the investigation of a criminal case involving the sale of an active Steblin GES at the price of equipment. JOURIA SOLOMATANA to the city’s Kiev head for the inaction or insolent action of the city’s services in solving the land issue of citizen Zozuli. Vassila BARTKIVA to Deputy Minister-General of the State Administration of Rail Transport on the gasification of railway dwellings in the Krasnopol Region of Suma. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the prosecutor of the Hersonian district for the unlawful actions of the officials of the district’s Attorney’s Office in relation to the citizen Grishka. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the unfinished construction of the Solotvina Regional Allergy Hospital's Children's Hospital. Thus 84 questions were put out by respected colleagues. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 19, Communist faction - 19, "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, SDPU - 4, People's Party - 5, SPU - 6, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 3, SPTU - 1, NPP - 6, "Democratic Ukraine" - 4, Postfraction - 2. Can I have a glass, please? For what reason? Microphone, please. It's a tape recorder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u2	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Ms. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, my deputy's request to the President of Ukraine, Mr. Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, to take action by the executive branch to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs in Ukraine, you have placed the first - and many deputies not to have been or have not been supported in this regard. And this question, really, in a country where millions of citizens are forced to look for work abroad, has an extremely important social significance. People look forward to putting it into practice as soon as possible. And I'm sure the executive branch of the job is running, but neither the electorate nor we national MPs have any solid information about the actions that have been taken. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote to return to the consideration of this parliamentary request, and the Ukrainian national deputies to support this request for executive branch measures to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u3	Your Honor, would you mind if I put to the vote a motion to return to the hearing the question of Vladimir Leschenko to the President of Ukraine regarding the measures taken by the executive branch of power to ensure the mass creation of additional jobs in Ukraine? I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:26:22]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the presentations by representatives of the MPs and factions with statements and messages, queries and information. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov. Three factions are handed over: the Communist faction, Democratic Ukraine, Democratic Initiatives. Thus, nine minutes. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, dear veterans, citizens of Ukraine! Today it has been 64 years since the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, the most tragic and, at the same time, the most heroic page of modern national history. No event of the 20th century has left such a profound mark in the memory and destiny of mankind as World War II and its main decisive component, the Great Homeland. In accordance with the President's decree issued on 22 June by veteran organizations, Ukraine is observed annually as the Day of Grief and Remembrance of the Victims of War. Before the vicious attack on the Soviet Union, almost all of Europe was involved. The attack on the Soviet Union was a legitimate continuation of the militaristic policy of the Fascist Germany on the establishment of world domination, the conquest of life space at the expense of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and other republics of the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, this has been forgotten not only in Europe but also in Ukraine. Therefore, today's time in the name of memory should be recalled to all -- both our citizens and to the foreign -- that only the unwavering devotion of the Fatherhood, war and labour movement, courage, courage, heroism of true heroes, the generation of winners, who represented all the Allied republics of the Soviet Union, has been met with the most difficult task of saving their people and the prosperous countries of Europe from a sad fate. With my own eyes, I saw people die, protecting their home, their village, their city, their relatives, and loved ones. But when they died, these heroes marched in immortality. Their feats live and live forever. They were people of different ages, nationalities, professions, personalities, abilities, but they were all united by a feeling of warm love for their land, for their family. They fought, and they died, and they defeated you, so that you might live. The years of the Great Homeland War will always be a strong link that will forever link the past and the future. From the height of the past decades, the great and bitter truth about the war, its unprecedented cruelty, its unimaginable human suffering, its tragic mistakes, and its losses has been evident. But it is in the harsh light of the incorruptible truth that the Sons of Our Fatherland, who do not know the same in history, are especially aware of the feats of our Fatherhood, the feats that have been brought about by the great victory over Fascism. In the name of supreme justice, in the name of the bright future of Ukraine, it cannot be allowed for the Great Homeland to become for the descendants of an unknown war, as it has already happened somewhere. The sacred duty of our memory, the great vow of victory, to convey to succeeding generations the whole truth of war, its heroes, the truth not subject to political manipulation and conjunctural audits, the scale and significance of the fighting. Not the dead, but the living need the truth not to fade away from the past, so that the living flowers will always bloom on the graves of the heroes. It is this attitude towards the memory of those who have fallen in the glory of Ukraine that we are bequeathed by the winners. Today, the serious concern of veterans is not only that the pension of most veterans does not provide a subsistence minimum, but that legal benefits continue to be sought especially on medical, housing and other forms of security, but also the revitalization of certain political forces aimed at revising the history of the Great Homeland War, the attempts to kill the memory of the people of the true patriots, the heroes of the freedom and independence of our State. And this is what happens to us in Ukraine, which during the years of the war was the epicenter of warfare, the arena of bloodshed, the battles that did not pass any inhabited place or family. In the occupied territory, the armed struggle against fascism was fought by members of the invisible front of more than 600,000 guerrillas and undergrounds, a national struggle. Ukraine's liberation price, like victory in general, was very expensive. Human data losses amounted to more than 7 million. Today, the dead defenders and liberators of Ukraine, buried in 28,000 brotherly graves in its territory, are present with us invisibly. The tragedy for the 2.5 million inhabitants of Ukraine was their forced deportation to Nazi Germany and other satellite countries. The occupation destroyed more than 28,000 cities and villages, 419,000 productions, and more than 18,000 institutions of science and culture. In years of war, unfortunately, there were no mistakes and miscalculations, unjustified human losses. But we must perceive our past and heroic, and tragic as it was, not copy it from another's voice, not order teaching aids, movies from those who were far from their homeland and were not eyewitnesses of these events. This offends our citizens and not just veterans. Politically engaged historians have tried to overestimate past events, armed with questionable, often anti-scientific sources, and have become market-oriented, land-based positions and interpretations of facts. They, like assholes, drain the blood of the people's memory and, in turn, inject lies and falsifications. As a result, it is simply a wild demand, so-called national patriotic forces: to recognize the UN and the UPA as parties to the war against the Fascist Germany and to entitle them to rights with the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Today, I would like to address Victor Andreevich Yushchenko-President of Ukraine and a man who believes deeply: not to initiate the issue of public reconciliation and mutual forgiveness of veterans of the Great Homeland War and soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army. Until all the truth about the UPA and the UN is told is very difficult, it is simply impossible to achieve peace between war veterans and UPA fighters. That's a first. And secondly, veterans of both sides. For 80 to 90 years now, and forcing the souls and conscience of these people of an honorable age under all the laws of God and man, not humane, not Christian. Let them live their lives in peace and prosperity with European pensions and social protection. The world entered the 21st century — an era of globalization. At these staged intersections of time, a person is particularly eager to look to the future, and the question is, What can we take from the past into this shrinking future, and what can we leave behind? That is why the problem of keeping the lessons and vows of victory in the 45th year is, in fact, the most crucial to our people, for the country as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to say that never and no one will be able to win the Great Homeland War, to distort the truth that the Soviet people, under the leadership of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, have made a decisive contribution to the Great Victory of Fascism: patriotism, the friendship of peoples, the heroism of soldiers and laymen of the rear. We call upon State officials, political parties, businessmen and mecenators to contribute to the sacred work of perpetuating the memory of the dead, to make a strong contribution to the implementation of the law on perpetuating victory in the Great Homeland War. This will be an effective foundation for the patriotic upbringing of present and future generations, which must strengthen Ukraine's economic and defence power in the third millennium. Millions of soldiers and civilians have long been out of their lives, but they live and must live in remembrance of the living, in monuments, in memorials, in cherished brotherly and individual burials and in the book of the remembrance of Ukraine. The indemnity of the memory of the people and the State of Ukraine remains to be met with effective measures to find and bury the thousands of remains of the unburied soldiers of the Great Fatherland who have dedicated themselves to protecting our homeland for its freedom and independence, the most precious of all life. The memory of the fallen doesn't need to be dead, it needs to be alive. More care and attention should be given to veterans. The people, with their vivid memory and care for the older generation, are immortal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u5	Igor Shurma is invited from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vladimir Stratovic of "Our Ukraine" will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] For almost six months, the problem of combining the exercise of parliamentary powers with other activities, a group of senior Ukrainians, has not been solved. For almost six months now, at least two articles of the Constitution 78 and 120 have not been or have been removed under the agreement of the guarantor in Ukraine. For almost half a year now, 29 people with special privileges have received two of the lowest wages in Ukraine, with millions of citizens happy with new, nutritious food prices, clothing, and gasoline. And for almost six months at all levels, in all internal and international forums, at numerous meetings with representatives of other states, the new authorities have been talking about winning the rule of law principle in Ukraine. Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP states that the problem of coexistence in Ukraine is a cynical demonstration of disrespect for the new power of Ukraine's laws, its position over the law, the Constitution of Ukraine, over the people of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction believes that even if there is a degree of dissension in the current legislation on compatibility, there is a way out of the situation. To solve the problem, there is only one need for political will. But it is precisely this new team of authorities that is lacking in the first place. And unfortunately, the very political will in this matter is absent from the President of Ukraine. Taking into account that all the possibilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding co-sponsors have been exhausted today, given the lack of a clear reaction by the President of Ukraine regarding accomplices, the faction of the SDPU(o) has prepared a draft law which, if adopted, obliges the relevant state actors to release violators from their positions. This is about a draft law on the characteristics of discharge from the positions of persons who are compatible with the authority of the national deputy. Another initiative of the SDPU(o) is the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend payments related to the performance of parliamentary duties by the National Deputies. Having adopted these legislative acts, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will demonstrate to the Ukrainian community that it remains the only body of government in Ukraine that is capable of resisting the rule of law, which unfortunately now prevails in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should force the new authority to respect the law. There's no other way out. The problem of coexistence is forgotten by both the President and the Prime Minister and the co-founders themselves. These accomplices have once again abused us. Everyone should know that they've written applications for vacation and vacation money. This is a disgrace to the President, and this is a disgrace to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u7	Volodymyr Stratovic of the faction "Our Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u8	A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" regarding 64 years since the beginning of the Fascist aggression. World War II on June 22, 1941, became the Great Motherland. This terrible war took over every sixth of our countrymen. The Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the "Our Ukraine" faction, call upon all Ukrainians, citizens of all countries, all people of goodwill in an acceptable way or a minute of silence, prayer or memorial candle to honor the eternal memory of those who have fallen into the fight against fascism. We urge us to honor the memory of those who liberated their land and the European community from the brown plague. Today, veterans in Ukraine are one of the socially unprotected types of society, and their material security often does not exceed the subsistence minimum. This is the result of years of neglecting veterans' interests in the past regime. Because of old age and disease, the lava of veterans melts every year. Unfortunately, our political opponents resort to populist adventures, cynically exploit the veteran’s electoral environment, and resort to dishonest machinations. Yet, they did not move the social security situation of the disabled and veterans of the war. The result was the loss of a loan of confidence in the State’s institutions and the spiritual alienation of veterans from social processes. We also urge you not to divide the veterans who fought against fascism against ours and not ours. Today, they are equally unprotected and need our help. The time for social reconciliation has come. The Parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" has made every effort to ensure that the legal and, most important, social status of war veterans and the proper conditions for their material satisfaction change for the better. We are now initiating a series of bills on the comprehensive state support of disabled people, war veterans, guaranteeing their life needs, strengthening their social protection. We will engage in these processes in large-scale business circles, as well as other political forces and public organizations. Without the past, there is no future. A society that remembers must care. To our Ukrainians, this is not a tribute to electoral rhetoric, but rather to a synonymous and civic duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u9	Alexander Frost from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, our faction joins all those words that refer to the date of June 22, 41. And I think that all MPs make the same conclusions from this complex story. Now it's about that statement the faction asked me to read. The Socialist faction expresses concern about the danger of the destruction of the airline industry in Ukraine. This could result in the creation of a vertically integrated concert with the inclusion of ANTC Antonov, the Kiev state aviation company "Aviant" and the Kharkiv state aviation company. Subjects initiated by the authorities themselves express reasonable doubts about the economic and technological relevance of mergers. These doubts are fully shared by the leading managers and experts in the field. One farm complex cannot combine the profitable MVO, which successfully works on future aviation projects, is the world leader in this field, and the production in Kharkiv, which is focused on today’s needs. In addition, production is hopelessly credited, including with huge debts to Antonov’s NTC. There is a suspicion of trying to settle foreign debt and prepare enterprises for privatization with further termination of production to foreign competitors, and there is sufficient collateral evidence to do so. Legal principles for creating the necessary concert are being touched. First, Kyiv’s Master’s Court three months ago recognized the impossibility of combining these entities with huge mutual debts. Second, the compulsory merger of landowners is prohibited by law. Thirdly, the industry's and the Minprompolitics' sectoral agreement provides for a possible merger only with the knowledge and agreement of the business community. It is a deliberate violation of regulations and legislation. The interim special committee of parliament concluded that there was no technical, economic, and marketing arguments for the establishment of the concert. Clearly, all over the world, air builders are heading for the closest possible integration. Ukraine cannot be an exception, but an NTC-led corporation can be the optimal form of such integration, taking into account manufacturing cooperation and the world aviation market situation. Antonova, recently headed, by the way, is the only Ukrainian organizer of science and production, the winner of the International Award of ICAO by Peter Vasilovich Balabuyev. It should be said that in 80 years, only 20 men and women received such a prize. Again, the initiative to create a concert is probably to order foreign competitors, to try to clean up the market. It's a threat to the industry, to the whole of machine building, to the security of the country, it's a disrespect for two professionals of different levels who have demonstrated their production, the technology of tomorrow. The Socialist faction thinks it's necessary for a profile committee involving independent experts to study the purpose of creating a concert and report to us. I think it's necessary for the Henprosecutor to analyze the rightfulness of creating a concert. We invite the President and the Security Council of Ukraine and the defences of Ukraine to take control of developments in the area, particularly in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u11	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u12	In particular, part of the likely satisfaction of foreign competitors by destroying aircraft building in our country. Ukrainian aircraft construction should serve the Ukrainian people, and only so. And finally, I have a request for those who posted this message, which is absolutely correct, but correct the grammatical errors, because people are fixing this whole thing. It says, for example, "Jews," "Frozens." And according to the content, you have to take action.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u13	Bogdan Hubsky, representative of the "One Ukraine" faction. Prepare Peter Pisarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, June 22 is the Day of Grief, because 64 years ago, German - Fascist invaders attacked our home country. My family, like most families in Ukraine, also suffered. My foreign grandfather met the Germans on the border coast on June 22nd on Volina. My wife's grandfather also met German - Fascist invaders in the Baltic on June 22nd. Hence, a low bow to all those who protected us and to all those who died. But we should also remember the living, the pensioners, the people who protected us. The "One Ukraine" party has always consistently raised the issue of social protection, particularly among the priorities of medicine and education. Social justice has been restored on the initiative of the faction -- and social workers, doctors and educators have had the opportunity to get a piece of land. On our proposal, Parliament passed legislation to finance rural medicine and rural culture from the State Budget. I am also pleased to note that the President and the government are clearly and consistently implementing social priorities. This is confirmed by yesterday's adoption of the Budget Resolution, where the minimum wage is set, and the minimum pension will be up to 500 dollars. We recently celebrated Medical Day. Many talked about the need to support the sector, its meaning for society. But we feel that such words need to be done and concrete steps should be taken not only on holidays. We need to work daily to improve the level of social protection for these people. A budget worker should receive no less wages, a pension than a high-ranking official, because an official works for today — a doctor, a teacher, a culture worker — works for our future. It's very important to emphasize. As a result, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party introduced a number of bills for consideration by the Supreme Council. First. We insist that we compare the order of pensions to that of doctors and educators with that of civil servants and academics, because today the civil servant receives 90 percent of the pension from the salary, and the teacher or the doctor, on a general basis. Is the work of a cleric and a government official more important than the work of a doctor or a teacher? Of course not. Therefore, we suggest that 80 percent of the wages for doctors and teachers should be set up and 15 percent for women and 20 years for men should be increased by 1 percent, but not more than 900 per year. 90 percent, and that'll be fair. And we're also proposing that the interplay of the State Science Service with teaching and medical internships be recalculated, which is very important. In doing so, the pension should be paid to a medical or educational worker in full, regardless of his income after retirement. On behalf of the faction of the "One Ukraine" party, I appeal to the citizens of Ukraine, to the deputies of the Supreme Council, asking them to support these bills and rightly implement the right to a normal life for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u15	Peter Pisarczuk has a word from the faction of "Ukraine". Get ready for Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I was moved to take the floor, not by the greed of the political pianist, but rather by the desire to help the President realize his efforts to form honest power. Honest is, first of all, a law-abiding one. The problem of co-conspirators shows not only how difficult it is for the President to do this, but it creates a chain reaction to redemption, to act on his order to treat laws. I don't know about you, but on my parliamentary motions, distinguished officials are sending formal receipts. Yes, in the village of Novoselst of Zolotov, in Lviv, schoolchildren are studying in a semi - decomposed school. There are decently liberated agrarian facilities. Logically, the head of the government, to which I directed my request, gives instructions to his ministers, who are one - party, Barani, and Nikolainka, no problem solving the issue for the benefit of the children. Instead, I get a letter from Mr. Kinach about the significant contribution of agrarian technology to the development of agricultural science, which is not seen in the fields. However, special cynicism is demonstrated by the law enforcement system in connection with my repeated efforts to investigate the murder of Semenyuk. A month ago, the Supreme Council supported the request to the President of Ukraine for possible involvement with this General Ryabosapka. As part of the criminal investigation, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that this is the case. But not only the Minister of the Interior, but Victor Andriyovich is also being asked to answer me with a list of the General’s service lists and assurances that the information is being verified, but because he is supported by the Minister of Transport and Liaison, Ryaboshapka is being promoted to lead the militia and transport. Perhaps there is something about the Seminoche murder case that needs to be proved, but the general's involvement with a group of people last year stole 13 million dollars from the state execution. Under pressure from the public, the police opened a criminal case. Imagine a young lieutenant. an active general. Mr. Secretary of the Interior! Your deputies, such as Bondarenko, who have been taking care of Ryabosapka since the joint work of the tax police, have been misleading you, and you're doing so with the President. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Since I cannot realize the constitutional and legal rights of the people's deputies, and there is such a problem, the units of us without the customs may be admitted to the minister or to the President, I ask you to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council, to examine the enforcement of the laws by the executive authority of Ukraine. Otherwise, we will have to repeat the example of the Sandman and protect him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus of the Yulia Block Timoshenko is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vitalia Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u18	Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! Today, June 22 - Day is the day of tribulation and the memory of all those who have fallen into the fields of the Great Homeland War, protecting the Fatherland. Ukraine has made untold sacrifices in history that are calculated by millions of human lives. The financial victims of our country are also invisible. The question is, Have we learned war lessons, and have we done all we can to draw the right conclusions and formulate a national strategy for Ukraine’s development in the 21st century? Unfortunately, there is still no positive answer. Ukraine’s resurgence, arrangement, and development, which are becoming urgent, acute, remain pending. After the Great Homeland War, Ukraine was plunged into a cold war, and today there is a global economic war, a war for competitiveness. Participation in competition is the only way to raise the power, the power of our state. Because it's all defined by this. Our faction, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Fatherland Party, from the position of State and Social Solidarity, is proposing to Parliament, the Government and the President immediately begin to develop a national economic and social development strategy for Ukraine for 25 years. We call on the President to address Parliament in September with a message on the basic situation of such a national strategy. We demand that immediate action be taken to address the issues of the direct prerogative of the Supreme Council on the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies. Without it there can be no progress, there can be no prosperity for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u19	Vitaly Ivanovich Majko is invited from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Prepare Georgie Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u20	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. I was impressed that the faction Timoshenko presented today raised just the questions that concern the faction of industry and entrepreneurs. Today, with reference to the lessons of war, life has shown that the state must be powerful, armed with knowledge. And the Great Homeland War has proved that only knowledge, only advanced technology, has made it possible to protect the country. Today, in Ukraine and in Parliament, we talk more about how to distribute what is and what is not. But there's no question about how to create conditions that make the country more productive and more divided. One of the main areas of work today is investment, innovation policy in Ukraine. We held a 14-number conference -- the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Commission of the Supreme Council for the Future, the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. This conference showed us the interest of foreign investors in investments in Ukraine. But we are still in the wrong place. I want to say that the experience of the company manager shows that those enterprises that are living today, who have survived the reconstruction, are the ones that have been doing the new technology. And we all need to develop a program with you that will give us a chance, not by five percent, but to raise Ukraine's industry and economy much more. There are good examples in this regard. Those countries that have reached 20 percent or more. We have a preserved science, we have a preserved industrial potential, we have much more conditions than in some countries of other national democracy that have come today, and everything and everything else. We can achieve high results, but the question should stand to believe more in its power, to put more into the task of achieving these results. And I am sure that our people, our wisdom to the national people, will help us to take the positions that are worthy of our people. And we will think more about how to rest, not just sharing what is not there today. We need to learn to make money, and this should be dedicated to all the programs that we are developing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u21	The word is given by George Manchulenko, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, followed by Igor Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u22	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian Party about the government’s planned increase in gas and electricity prices. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is concerned about the government’s intention to increase the price of gas by 25 percent and the price of electricity by 20 percent. The announcements made by the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Placzkov and the head of the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory of Calchenk against the background of the government's socio-oriented policies are irresponsible and incur the righteous indignation of millions of Ukrainians. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that there is no basis for a significant increase in gas and electricity prices in Ukraine today. More than 75 percent of electricity in Ukraine is produced from Ukrainian uranium and Ukrainian coal, which is a sufficient factor in the stability of the electricity market. In the near future, about 90 percent of electricity can be produced from Ukrainian energy sources. The government’s intention to increase the price of gas by 25 percent is a manifestation of a psychological weakness in the face of gas threats by the Russian Federation. The absence of a clear government energy strategy for both the immediate and the distant future, the failure of the National Security and Defence Council to respond to the State's energy security challenges, is evidence of serious problems in the implementation of Ukraine's energy policy. The recent parliamentary hearings on the prospect of developing a fuel-energy complex showed that this year, and probably before the election of a new parliament and the formation of a new government, Ukraine will not be given either an economic or an energy strategy. Ukrainian energy cannot be integrated simultaneously into the European Union's energy sector and the single economic space, just as Ukraine's only energy system cannot simultaneously work with the European Union and the Russian Federation's energy systems. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party demands that a moratorium be imposed on a significant increase in gas and electricity prices, and recommends that the President of Ukraine, in view of the constant threats to energy security, should immediately convene the NRA meetings on energy policy, energy strategy and energy security. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party claims that today is a tragic date in the history of our country. And we call upon all our colleagues, all our constituents, to do our utmost to make sure that there is always a peaceful sky over Ukraine and that the tragedies that have to be experienced by our people in the distant tragic war never happen again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u23	Igor Jeremeyev, a faction of the People’s Party, is invited to speak. Get ready to pull away from the non-fractional. The required signatures for the statement are compiled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u24	Jeremiah Igor, faction of the People’s Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, national MPs! History has repeatedly fixed the facts when, as a result of the thoughtless steps taken by the nations instead of progressing, poverty comes to them. It is estimated by the faction of the People’s Party that this is the way in the formation of import policies is driven by some hot heads. It is society’s belief that only full disclosure of borders will solve all our pressing problems. But we've been through this before. Consider the history of a decade ago when our trailers were filled with Polish margarine, Bulgarian vegetable cans, and Cuban sugar. The fruits of that policy are still being reaped today. First of all, hundreds of thousands of citizens who have lost their jobs. Now that Ukraine has reached third place in the world in sunflower and oil production, sixth in wheat and potato production, tenth in grain and milk production, we are once again offered to dump the domestic producer under the tank. That is how the government tries to pass several bills through the Supreme Council, which are presented as a mandatory condition for the entry into WTO. Ukraine should no doubt join the World Trade Organization, but we, the faction of the People's Party, are against our nation's accession to this prestigious organization being accompanied by the loss of the position of domestic production. But in their time, France or Britain was able to control imports and stimulate exports, or Israel, which, in order to protect its economy, had established a discriminatory regime for licensing imports. Why not stand before WTO members for the interests of domestic producers, and instead of supporting the import of consumer goods, why not support the import of advanced technologies? For us, increased exports are also a major factor in the development of production, since the powerful potential of the country’s agriculture makes it possible to feed hundreds of millions of people. This is the investment resource for the development of the sector and the state as a whole. Today, with unreliable markets, our peasant receives half as much from exports as his colleague in the West. Thus, the ideologists of liberalization of Ukraine’s external economic relations should have long been patriotic and principled. Dear National Deputies! During these days, hundreds of thousands of young adults with high - school certificates leave high school and prepare to get a job in higher education institutions. We welcome them with this sincerely, we wish them success, but the question arises: Who will need this army of prospective professionals, if domestic businesses are bankrupt and grandchildren will wait for Grandpa's pension. We demand that the government calculate all possible risks and reliably.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the word is Oleg Tuggnibok of the Postfactions. The signatures needed to make a statement are collected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u26	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, let me return to the problem of arranging Polish military burials in Lviv at Lichakow Cemetery. Today, the Supreme Council Order on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the construction of Polish military burials in 1918-1919 in the area of the historic and cultural reserve of Lichakovsky Cemetery has been handed down to all of you. Since the official discovery is scheduled for 24 years, I think it is necessary for the Supreme Council to respond immediately and today. So I'd like to remind you. The Polish side insists that only Polish, not Ukrainian, but Polish, and the inscription, "The Polish soldier who died in the homeland is buried here." Well, it's completely incomprehensible what a Polish soldier could do in the city of Lviv, in the Ukrainian city, and die for his homeland there. In addition, the Polish army of the Antants is on the side of the Poles, and the Poles insist that the inscriptions of the French or American military who died in Poland are on their graves. Our proposition is, let's put it in Ukrainian and Polish, but the soldiers who died in the Ukrainian-Polish war -- and a dot. Furthermore, the Polish side insists, and already stands the militaristic symbol of a sword-worm. A sword-sword is a symbol of the eternal victory of Polish arms over Kiev, because according to Polish great state mythology, Polish King Bolslav has embellished this sword against the Golden Gate. And today this sword is supposed to stand in Ukraine on this cemetery? This is a total humiliation of national dignity. And because of this, respectable society, I have a proposal -- a very loyal decision that we will make today's agenda to look at this decision, the more there's a legal connection, because the Lichakov Cemetery refers to national historical and cultural preserves, and this is no longer a matter for the Lviv City Council, which is actually a matter for Parliament and, according to what is a violation of cultural heritage legislation, these issues have to be decided by the Cabinet of Ministers. And to the end. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm very offended that you broke the Rules this time. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, an absolute majority of faction leaders decided that this decision should be made in the order of the day. [[I reported it yesterday.]] Why she's not here, I don't understand. Is it a secretariat, or is it a deliberate step you are taking? Because of this, I demand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we immediately put this decision to the vote so that we can include it in the agenda and ask our colleagues to see it today. That's the right thing to do. This will be according to the law and it will be according to justice. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put to the vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u27	End the talks, then on all the questions that have been. No, the performances are not over. Leave your papers. I beg you, I will follow the Rules. Please, calm down, please. Yes, the speech is given by Yuri Carmazin. Because of the dissatisfaction of the answer, all necessary documents are available. reply to parliamentary requests, all relevant documents are required.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I was forced to go out to this rostrum by the brutal writings that I receive from the new government all the time. I asked Prime Minister Timoshenko, the so-called Attorney-General of Piscoon, the head of the Kyiv City Administration of Omelchenk to take measures to prevent the elimination of the Kyiv National Ipodrum. and tribal affairs, horse sports, the cynical embezzlement of his property, the preservation of a large number of jobs for professionals in the field of horsery and the provision of a statewide selection program in animalry, and I also protect those who admire horse sports and horse riding by the Chinese and Ukrainian masses who have always enjoyed what they watched at the ipod. By 2001, the Kiev idrom was subordinated to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and then transferred by the government to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev. This ipdrome has a glorious history, and it has been there for 138 years. In the days of the Soviet Union, he was second in importance after Moscow. It brings together better specialists. All over the world, the word "advanced" is a synonym of exciting spending time and huge profits. As an appropriate example, let me give you the experience of Finland, where for every 100,000 people, one ipropod is used. In France, there is only one company a year round. The totaliser is 9 billion euros. The cost of a large European prize for American rice, which is played annually, is 1 million euros. The existence and activities of the Kyiv ipodre depend on the development of domestic horse agriculture, the preservation of hundreds of jobs, and thousands of purebred tribal horses. And that's where even though I'm asked, first of all, I get a call from the people of Prof. Shinkarenko, Žurabel, Palkin, Rusinova, Yakovenko, Haslo, Skvortsov and many more, many signatures from people about it. They say they've been brutally vetted, they've lied to the MPs. This is a table I made specifically for you. This is a table where the stands are completely broken. There's a market right in front of the stands. That's the way the dormitories are located. And I get receipts from the respectable city head, I get receipts from the government, from the Attorney General's Office. Instead of breaking criminal cases instead of restoring everything in the state, instead of helping Kiev and Ukraine out of the crisis today, all we have is an osmosis. And so in the whole country. And we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues. Let everyone do the performance, I beg you, well, I beg you, I beg you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the MPs and the factions have been completed. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask that the secretariat prepare appropriate assignments. As for the suggestions of our colleague Oleg Tuggnibok, indeed, honourable colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the conciliatory board, the issue was being raised. Indeed, the Conciliation Council supported the proposal that Oleg Tsagnibok had just made, but I would like to remind the honourable colleague that order, the schedule of meetings had already been formed and distributed to the national deputies for consideration. So, dear fellows, I'm asking you, well, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, let's do this. We have a section for inclusion in the agenda, well, one minute, I ask you, for inclusion in the agenda of the simplified procedure and decision-making, since there is a decision of the Conciliation Board, let's put this draft decision first. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u30	What's that? Out of the hall. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u31	We'll get there. Dear colleagues, come on, please. Dear colleagues, who's in charge of considering the draft decree he's proposed? Please vote. [[11:13:31]] For 184 The Supreme Council did not support it. In factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 24, People's Party - 16, Block Timoshenko - 18, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, SDP (o) - 7, Democratic Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 6, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 2, non-fractional - 11. Please consult. Dear colleagues, we've taken an hour of 15 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages. In this regard, I would ask that we not take a break at 12 o’clock. What's more, two factions are now saying, The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party and the Democratic Initiative MPs demanding a recess. [[united]] Let's think about it this way, if you have any reason to want to take a break, make a statement and we'll work. Who will act? Please, Santa Noshenko, come in. "Democratic Ukraine," I apologize, the factions demanded two "Democratic Ukraine" and two "SDPU." Please speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u32	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. It's a faction. And the Democratic Ukraine once again from this highest rostrum expresses concern about the failure of the government, its leadership, its promises in meeting factions in forming a government team. It ends in the first half of the year, and a number of budget programs fail, one billion delays in gasification, investment projects, 500 million for the construction of public roads. The purchase of buses for school computers, the purchase of insulin for diabetics, has not begun. The building of a social home is on the verge of being built. There has been a debt on wages in subsidies, social payments, but it is disturbing that individual government officials have not been able to deal with these problems. Our former colleagues are severely interfering with Parliament’s work. In his article "Which Parliament Needs Ukraine", published yesterday by "Ukraine's Truth", Deputy Prime Minister Tomenko made unfounded statements, quoted in the original language, that the degree of parliamentary lobbyism has reached a critical limit, that Parliament has ceased to perform its functions, that there is anarchy and nature in Parliament. Only a blind man cannot see the link between a series of baseless accusations to the head of the Parliament, Vladimir Litvin, and his growing authority as the leader of the national party. The charges are often diametrically opposed. We're voting for the government project. It's Litwin's fault. We do not vote in favour of a government project on land trade and auction activity, for which no vote in Parliament in the last three years is again blamed by the speaker of Parliament. And the list of these baseless charges to Lithuania can be continued. It's also the acquisition by Parliament of ambulances, which is impossible in the aprior, the housing of deputies within the legal field, the compatibility of the national deputies, all of it with the gauze. But the main thing is to distract society from the principle of Parliament's position in the adoption of laws and to raise doubts about the order of its leadership. The pressure on us, the national MPs, is increasing to our position in the vote. We're doing everything we can to make Parliament an accessory to the Cabinet of Ministers. The government liked to vote in a package for the laws. We firmly claim that such interference with Parliament’s work is unacceptable, that there is an unobjective assessment of its leadership, that there is disregard for the collective opinion of the MPs. We encourage the government to work with us, professionally and professionally, to do its work for the construction of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u33	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies is under review. We need to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is agreed upon, signed by all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. This regulation refers to the procedure for the consideration of draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. This is registration number 6531-2-P. I put this ruling to the vote and ask the people's deputies to vote. Please vote. [[11:19:14]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Then, dear colleagues, since there is no desire, let us take a look at the matter. I am voting for a return to the draft Billing Order concerning the election of Ukraine's national deputies. Registration number 6531-2-P. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:19:56]] For 255 Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. The factions, please. One minute, the procedure has already been voted by decree. Just a minute. I'm reading to you. Ah! About the return. We have now returned to the consideration of this document. Now I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 6531-2-P. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:20:42]] For 245 Decision taken. Now I'm reading you the procedure. To review the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, to refer: to report to the author of the bill - within 10 minutes, to answer the question to the rapporteur - within five minutes, to speak to the leaders, authorized factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine - in three minutes to each speaker. You don't have to show your emotions. Please! There's an order of 45 minutes. We're going out of order here. Now, you have to regulate it with a separate decision, you know that very well, your honorary colleagues. Well, please, calm down. We don't make decisions yet. Yes, the rapporteur from the committee will be Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is on a bill that was tabled with me and my colleagues -- Oleg Zarubinski, George Ponomarenko, Mikola Onichuk, and Anatoly Mokrousov. It refers to changes to the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. 2004 was a unique year of adoption of three unified electoral laws, and this is a requirement for improvement of electoral legislation and the way to the electoral code. Yet it is this unification that has allowed us today to see the practical problems of a law that has not only been applied but has not become effective. This is the law on election of Ukrainian national deputies, which is due to take effect on October 1st of this year. We gained this great experience during the 2004 presidential election. The maximum liberalisation of electoral procedures was aimed at the widest possible protection of the rights of each individual electorate. However, it has proved to be very vulnerable to massive systemic abuse and the widespread use of administrative resources. In December 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law on the specificities of application of the law. There was no other way out, the situation required urgent implementation of mechanisms to protect fundamental principles and principles of electoral law. Today, however, it would be irresponsible not to take into account the lessons learned from the application of the Presidential Election Act in view of the practical identity of the regulation of the electoral procedures of this law and the law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. This is a direct result of the unification of electoral legislation. That is exactly what the bill is proposing to you. He does not touch on matters that cause political resonance; he does not refer to changes in the electoral system or changes in the size of the electoral barrier, which determines which parties and blocs participate in the distribution of mandates based on the results of the elections. If the Supreme Council has a wish, it can look at such bills separately. Today, you are offered a bill designed to improve the regulation of electoral procedures. What fundamental innovations are proposed in this law? First of all, the 2004 election experience has shown that allowing each subject of the electoral process to have his representatives on the electoral boards will provoke the application of the technology of the so - called technical candidates. Today, if we mention with what sort of reading was done at the end of March this year with the registration of new parties, we will understand that there is a danger of using technology in the 2006 elections. Thus, in order to avoid the dismemberment of electoral committees and the transformation of them into incapacitated formations, as was often the case in the 2004 elections, it is proposed to return to the Commission forming mechanism that was applied during the 2002 elections. I'll remind you of the contents of it. Under this mechanism, the parties and blocs that have their factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine had the absolute right to include their representatives. All other parties or constituencies of the electoral process have the right to apply for candidates, which are included in reaching the maximum composition of the electoral commission on the basis of drawing lots. This allows the upper limit, a reasonable upper limit for the election boards, both district and district, depending on the number of voters on them. The second question is about the voter lists. Perhaps this was one of the most difficult and acute problems in the 2004 elections. Undoubtedly, these problems were the result of meaningful activity, since many of the facts that have been documented today show that this could not have been the subject of natural mistakes. For example, the appearance of the names of girls who had been married for more than a decade could not have been an accident. This means that if there were no rules to include individuals in the voter list, without proper public control, these lists could not be considered credible. We are all convinced that the only real solution to this problem is the adoption of a law on the national register of voters. However, until the 2006 elections, he simply had no time. So it's suggested that we create a mechanism for creating lists of voters, first of all, which would be. worked ahead of time, starting this summer; secondly, allowing broad public control by electoral subjects and, thirdly, these electoral lists are credible, which could be trusted, would form the basis for filling the electoral base after the election of 6 years. The next step is to improve legislation related to voting mechanisms rather than to electorate. This is a vote for strong certificates and a vote at home. I would like to remind you that voting for strong certificates was one of the highlights of the 2004 election forging. It is to avoid them and to introduce a series of rigid measures into the law on specialities. It must be admitted that some of these measures were too harsh. Therefore, taking into account the experience of the vote on December 26, additional steps are proposed to organize the voting for strong certificates. In particular, the forms of hard-core certificates are given the status of the documents and the rules for the calculation and control of the circulation of these forms are introduced, including the reporting after the vote. This experience has proven to be positive on December 26 last year, and I think it deserves to be applied further. As far as voting at home is concerned, you know that the Law on Specialities in this paragraph has been considered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine sets out the category of citizens who should have the right to vote at home. They are persons who are incapable of moving on their own. However, there is no legal instrument regulating the status of such persons in Ukraine. This means that this problem needs to be solved in electoral legislation. In this regard, it is suggested that two of these categories of persons who are unable to move on their own, these are disabled persons, elderly persons for whom the physical condition is unfortunately no longer changing. And the second category is people who are temporarily unable to move on their own as a result of trauma, acute illness, or other things like that. Appropriate rules are laid down for the number of such persons and for the right to vote at home. The next problem that needs to be addressed relates to the procedures for the calculation of votes and the identification of information in the voting records. As it turns out, the list of information that is traditionally recorded in our protocols does not provide it against falsification. Therefore, it is suggested that the list of such information be expanded in such a way as to make it more difficult for false information to be included in such a protocol. Such steps increase confidence in the documents of the district and district election boards and eventually increase confidence in the overall election. Another problem that is proposed to be solved in this law is the organization of complaints about the various problems and disputes that arise in the electoral process. This problem is closely related to the adoption or, in particular, to the rejection of the Code of Administrative Justice, since, as you recall, under this code, such cases are subject to the administrative court. Since the Supreme Council has recently voted in favour of this code, and we are waiting for it to be signed by the President or not, the corresponding chapter may be further developed in preparation for the second reading, taking into account whether the Code of Administrative Justice is effective or not. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law has been more specifically proposed to formulate a number of basic principles of electoral law, and we have witnessed with you how, in fact, the direct application of the principles of electoral law in the Supreme Court decision has been the basis for a decision. In general, once again, I would like to stress that the bill is not of a political nature, it is aimed at improving the mechanisms and procedures for voting and thus, to ensure more fully and accurately the electoral rights of citizens, as well as the rights of electoral subjects, couples, blocks
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u35	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u36	This bill is supported by the Central Electoral Commission, which can be witnessed by the Head of the CBC, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich. The bill is supported by the Public Building and Local Self - Government Committee. And we ask the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Yes, we have five minutes to ask. Yes. Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u38	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, of all these flaws of election law that you have listed, the most fundamental is because it's absolutely immoral, it's solid technical, as you rightly call it, candidates, or parties, or blocks. So we have to put a screen here because it demoralizes society and we've seen it very clearly in presidential elections when it was clearly seen that individual candidates, well, are just selling themselves and just working for money. You think he has the right, which means that only parliamentary groups are involved in the formation of election committees. And as is clear here, in this question, let's say we find out: how, about the organizations themselves about
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u39	Thank you. I think that's really a question worth clarifying. I want to emphasize once again that we can't dissipate from the election of parties or blocks at the level of the Law. That wouldn't be right, and I think the voters themselves will. Yet, with regard to the formation of electoral committees, it was indeed, in the election of the President, whether or not the main incentive that caused such an insane number of candidates was completely unsuspecting. Thus, such a mechanism is proposed. The parties and the blocs represented at the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be denied their candidacy. Today, party or block factions in the Supreme Council are 12. However, the upper limit of the composition of the commission is set at about 16 or 22 depending on the type of commission. That means that the seats are actually more on the committee. And there will be representatives of other parties or blocs that are not represented in the Supreme Council today. And so, they haven't earned much social support yet. And since there are far more than the number of vacancies, this distribution of seats is proposed for drawing lots.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u40	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u41	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the floor to the colleague of Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u42	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleague, please tell us if our legislation is democratic if the elections in Cherkas, which took place on June 12th of this year, are to be held by the City Council in the first place by a candidate who has won only 4 percent of the vote. Similarly, one of our colleagues, who was elected to the Supreme Council in Odessa a year ago, took only 7 percent. Even the President of Ukraine gained only 40 percent of the total number of citizens eligible to vote. I mean, there's no will to do most of it. What must be done to make the majority rule in legislation rather than in minority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u44	Thank you. Those problems that you call, and I'm completely dividing them, relate to a major electoral system relative to most. Thus, they will not apply to the 2006 elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be held on the basis of a proportional representation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u45	Paul Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in my opinion and in the view of our faction, we supported our return to the discussion of the matter. And when we look at the project, we read the project and we listen to the reporter, it's not my question, it's not going to be a question to the reporter of the project. But there was an agreement that there might be some moments, a good law as a whole, we have today, but some arguments can be corrected, not to touch any basic arguments and so on. And this project is practically in the new edition. That's why we claim from the faction of the "Ukrainen Regions" and we call on all the national MPs that this bill just needs to be rejected today and can't be supported in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u47	If you don't mind, I'll try to answer that. I want to say that only those political forces that are interested in taking advantage of the weaknesses of the current law can not support technological changes to the law that improves the procedure and does not carry political color.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u48	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u49	Alexander Shevchenko, Dnipropetrovština, 39 constituency, faction of the Volodymyr Lithuania People's Party Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, I have a question for you. I've studied your bill carefully, I've written it before it's amended, and I think it's appropriate. They do not change the essence of the spirit and the letters of your law, which I hope will be adopted. But I have a question like that. How much do you think he, this law, today in the event of adoption makes it impossible to falsify, makes it impossible to handle administrative pressure, makes it impossible to understand the will of the electorate? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u50	Thank you for the very good questions and for the suggestions already made. I want to say such a thing. It would be an illusion to believe that only the law stopped breaking the law. This requires first of all the will of those who implement it. However, the law may create obstacles to such a situation, or it may contribute to such violations. So I'm deeply convinced that this paper that we're proposing creates very serious obstacles to the way of counterfeiting. And that's why it's easy to avoid these forgeries when there's a will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u51	Yes, thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Time's up. Have a seat. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that we have decided that representatives of MPs and factions will be speaking. So I would ask those representatives of the MPs and factions who have not submitted their applications to the secretariat for a speech to do so or to authorize them to speak on behalf of the factions of those national deputies who have already signed up for the speech. Now I'm getting out of the faction. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. To prepare Valery Assadchev also from the Ukrainian People’s Party. Please register with all other colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u52	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I think there's no doubt that we need to work on making such electoral legislation so that we can forget for a long time and forever those manipulations, those forgeries that we've always been allowed to do. And I support Yuri Bogdanovich in what he says: you just need the technical questions that are set out in this bill, you just can't help but support them. But the second question is, How can we ensure that these standards are fulfilled if we accept them? In our view, this can only be done when we are fully competent, not in some part, but to the fullest extent isolated from the electoral process of executive power and civil servants. Only then can we expect democratic elections. And if this is another intervention by the executive branch, we can't expect democracy in the electoral process at all. And what we're talking about is that the old authorities faked the election all the time, and the hope that the new authorities won't do it, I can't, because absolutely what those people who are now in power, when they're not yet in power, they're not doing anything at all. The first example is that these portraits are hanging in front of all of us. Everyone said that they were legalists, today they did not, today they did not make up their own parliamentary powers, so what guarantee that they would then abide by the law? If anyone here today was talking about a human resources problem, and indeed, almost 20,000 district leaders. regional branches of government have been replaced. And they're not experts at all. I think you're all convinced of that. These are the people I think are set up to make a name for the 2006 election. And before that, to a professional level, they're still very, very far away. And I keep asking myself questions, and what happens if the ruling parties don't have the support they want? It's probably going to be called back for this course, as we've often done it, and Julia Volodymyrna says there's not going to be a decision to make -- the stage will come here. So, dear friends, we support our faction of these changes and this bill, we're only going to vote when it's put together in general. And in the first reading, and then we don't trust or vote about making any changes. So I urge everyone, let's vote for this bill immediately in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u53	Yes, Valery Assadchev of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u54	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear friends! I believe that the agreements we reached on the Conciliation Council have now been violated. I would like to remind you that the Conciliation Council has agreed that we are introducing a bill to amend the existing one only in the context of the clarification and improvement of election procedures, the technological procedures resulting from the presidential elections. Now, actually, there's a new bill, a whole new draft, a whole new one, which is both a percentage barrier and a proportional system, and they're now going to be offered second reading, we're actually going to be doing a full audit of the entire election bill. That's not what we agreed. What's more, I think amendment 691 -- I want you to look at it, I'm not going to comment on it -- is a bold confirmation of how we don't stick to our agreements. What suggestions the Ukrainian People’s Party has made, in particular: regarding hard-core certificates, we propose that it be included in the bill that each subject of the electoral law should be given a list of voters on a computer medium, on a diskette, and must be tested by a special program. [[We think we need to improve the situation.]] Such programs exist, we've done these tests, and it's very effective, you can check the voters' lists very quickly. We also suggested that we could have a list of the parties and the deputies themselves, so the list can be registered literally in one or two days, and we don't have to wait a lot. And the party can already, or the block, start agitation. Deputies can be registered for a month and a half. I mean, I think that such a divorce would also be appropriate. This is the kind of technology that can be introduced. But completely in the new edition of the bill -- we think it's a violation of our agreements on the Conciliation Council. And we're not going to vote that way: the bill in the new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u55	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u56	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, no law guarantees fair and transparent elections, but the law can either promote fair elections or hinder them. And an unbiased analysis of the text, which today is given at the request of MPs, a comparative table is very thorough, shows that this option, although it is not ideal, greatly reduces the possibility of abuse of power. And unlike what the previous speaker said, it's proposed to keep the same 3 percent barrier, this time. Unlike the fact that some people here are afraid, there is no fixation on the electoral system, because we understand that in this case the law will not pass. In contrast to what we have just been told, there is a provision for computer media for all participants in the electoral process, that is, very much. much better, though perhaps imperfectly written and formed election committees, and the formation of election lists, and reassurance vouchers, and voting abroad. And I'm going to comment on a 691 amendment that my colleague was so afraid to comment on. It says that there is no need to take a ridiculous guarantee that someone will leave office there. We can see that it just messes up the text of the law and doesn't give anything. There is no need for such texts as I am obliged to obey the law. The law must be enforced without obligation. Both the knowledge of the law and the ignorance of the law do not relieve responsibility in this part. That's why I'm talking again. Let's go with the procedure. We agreed, and indeed our faction "Our Ukraine" has suggested that the law be drafted so that it can be adopted in general, and we are fully in agreement with one of the previous speakers in this part. But the will of the Conciliation Council was different, and there was an agreement that we would take as a basis, and right now this is being worked out by a special task force, which is from different factions, so that there are no chicken surprises. And our faction guarantees that we will not vote for a law that will change the electoral barrier and the electoral system, and that will not pass, so let's not. This is not a time to be afraid. That's why. And I wanted to make a point, a bill that greatly reduces administrative resources, goes just this once from the new authority, and I just want to make sure we don't need it, like you do, dear colleagues. So maybe before the vote, I don't know, once again, to gather the Conciliation Council, and I'm very much talking to all my colleagues, let's take it as a basis, let's not work it out on the committees, let's work it out and definitely accept it, because it's in the interests of the Ukrainian people who are tired of honest, transparent, normal choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u57	Bogdan Hubsky, faction of the "One Ukraine" Party. Prepare Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The establishment of democratic processes in Ukraine is our main goal. And Ukrainian citizens expect us to adopt electoral legislation in such a way that each citizen of Ukraine has the opportunity to choose the electoral list, the national MPs he thinks will work for the people. So there's no forging the election so people don't vote twice. And that's exactly what we need to consider in this respect. Ukrainian citizens want their personal opinion clearly taken into account in the 2006 vote. They want to select those national MPs who will work for people and for people who won't reconcile the legislative authority with the business that separates business from the legislative work, and that's very important today. And it is from this point of view that this law should guarantee transparency of elections. Because it is the deputy who chooses people and chooses to work for people, he himself has worked for those who have chosen. Not people should work for a deputy, but a deputy should work for laws that make it possible to improve the lives of citizens. What do Ukrainian citizens expect from us? They expect us to adopt laws that will provide social protection for those types of people who today are unable to receive full social protection that will enable them to live, work, support their families. Yes, it's very positive that we adopted yesterday's budget resolution, which will allow 500 dollars of minimum wage and pension. But that's also a little bit, that's a little bit. I'm sure in the second half of the year after we see that he gave us the budget, we'll be able to adjust about 800 to 1,000 dollars of minimum wage for the next year. And that's exactly what people expect of us. That's why it's very important to people who are going to be chosen, who are going to be elected, and how are these deputies going to be won, God let it be us, so that the minimum wage is a thousand dollars next year. We did a social survey, we sent people a questionnaire asking, "What are you waiting for from the new Supreme Council, what should it vote for in terms of social protection?" People say we want the minimum wage to be 1,000, 1200 dollars and the minimum pension to be 800, 1,000 dollars, and that's fair. As a result, we feel that it is very important today to adopt a law that would allow for transparent elections. That is why we believe that the working group should work on this law, develop the necessary document and generally vote once and accept it so that everyone can see. I'm sorry I'm late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u59	Thank you. As long as it's coming, please turn on the Vitalia Shibka microphone. I mean, dear colleagues, you're in a mood at such a rapid speed that I can't catch up with you. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed on one thing, and now it sounds different. So let's make a deal. Please, Vitalia Šibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u60	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I can dispel your doubts about those flashes and I want to tell my colleagues, and I want to tell our listeners that, this morning, we only got these changes. That is, we received a document containing 150 sheets and, of course, it takes time to prepare for detailed conclusions and to study this important document in detail. We only had about two hours. And I want to pay attention to this point by analyzing at least one part of this bill, part of how the Ukrainians who live abroad will be involved in the elections. You know, there were a lot of problems in the last election, there were few districts, there were few stations to vote on our employees. There was a very small phenomenon, although we know other statistics from people living abroad. And really, if we're going to analyze this bill, there are significant changes here, right up to the positive. I mean, it was in Amendment 130 that the name came up as a foreign constituency. There's amendment 132, which details these problems, is an amendment like 189, which is in section 4. The electoral commissions say that the electoral commission system that prepares for the election consists of deputies throughout Ukraine and abroad in the constituency and so on. So here, without wasting time, you can give a lot of examples, but at the same time there are places that today have some refinements. And that's what I think clarifications should do as we take it in the second reading. For example, let's focus on 166 amendments. It says here that such a foreign constituency can only be formed in a large country where a large number of Ukrainian voters live. I'd like to know what that means, "the great place of the state"? How can you count it? Whether it's 300,000 or a million and so on. And what does it mean to have a significant number of Ukrainian voters, whether it's a million, or two million, or ten? So you can take Einstein's theory here to figure it out. And this really has to be done in the second reading. Or the 168th amendment, which does not yet indicate that there is legislation in some countries that does not allow elections to be held at other points than consular and diplomatic institutions. This, for example, we have encountered in the past electoral process with the Greek Republic and so forth. Therefore, our faction says that it should be accepted as a whole, but with a second reading, in order to clarify the disadvantages of today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u61	Alexander Shevchenko, please, from the faction of the People's Party. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u62	Alexander Shevchenko, Dnipropetrovština, 39 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party My dear colleagues, when I asked Yuri Bogdanovich a question, I wanted to stress that it is particularly disturbing to create mechanisms to avoid forging, avoiding people's opinion about the situation of sympathy, and then about how parliament will be formed, and generally in society the elections that will take place. So I would like to point out that in my view, the past election has taught us much, and many have become a school for others. And specifically, I would like to say. For example, among the constituencies of the electoral process, I believe that political parties, the CLTC and electoral committees, as the official observers are selected from the political parties, because the legal personality of political parties does not fully coincide with the rightfulness of the collective bodies or leaders of the parties and is close to the rightfulness of representatives in the civil process, who are independent subjects with their rights and responsibilities. [[Article 12]] This is confirmed by the provision of article 71, paragraph 15, of the bill. In my view, too, in order for there to be some ambiguity and some misunderstanding in the treatments, article 18 of the second paragraph should not link the number of territorial constituencies to the election of the President of Ukraine, because for practice this rule of substantive legal significance does not matter, because the number of electoral districts during the election of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies may vary. I would also like to point out that in article 26, in paragraph 3, in my opinion, instead of the formulation of "maintenance in the criminal-executive system" it is useful to use "offence of criminal punishment" in the opinion that not all convicted persons are punished in the institutions of the State Department on the execution of sentences. And also in paragraph 3 of this article and the following article of the bill, the only terminological definition of the status of law enforcement officials, namely judicial and law enforcement officials, should be determined, as in the following categories of employees, the employees of the ordinary and primary composition of the internal affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, stand out separately. It is also worth adding military and alternative military personnel to the third paragraph. Why I'm paying attention to this very question, because as you all know, it's administrative pressure that the biggest forgeries happen at the places where the punishment takes place, at the places where the military service goes and at the other places. Our faction supports this bill. He feels that he needs to be processed and accepted in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u63	Yes, Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u64	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Well, first of all, I want to say that I'm going to try to speak more of my own opinion than the faction's. And I'm going to start by saying that my view of this time has not changed with regard to the law, it's one of the most conservative laws that can only be spoken of. Article 38 of the Constitution is in violation of the pure. The fact that voters have the right to directly elect their deputies has also been mentioned in previous legislation on a number of occasions in the discussion of the previous law. But I don't want to say that right now, I want to talk about a specific law. Vladimir Mikhailovich! We are gradually moving to a position where more and more of us are beginning to vote, not oblivious. And today, we are faced with a moment when we are beginning to tilt to the moment of the vote without reading. How can you get into the bill in 250 sheets, although I tend to think that these are technical remedies if they were distributed this morning, I tend to believe that these are purely technical changes. It's far from technical change. What is technology? There's politics behind any technique. What does "home voting" mean? Some kind of procedure. After all, everyone who has passed the election is well aware that two or three steps are behind each of these steps. All of us are in favour of avoiding falsification, all of us, in order to be honest, open, direct elections. But where? Did we see that in the bill today? Maybe there's a depth to that question, but I'm sorry, how do we get around in 15 to 20 minutes on what we're supposed to do today? That's the first one. Second of all, why have we got a monopoly on this bill? I mean, we're facing a two-way dilemma today. Dilemma first, we need to adopt a bill as a whole in order not to let him go around trusting those who worked on him and they're honest to say that, yes, there will be no forgery, or second moment: we have to send this bill for finalization, and then, for second reading, we have to work seriously on it, and then, again, track down what technical rights will be introduced there? It's not a matter of one day, and it's not worth chasing horses. But I also ask the following question: let's address the issue in the context, let's cut the parliamentary elections a little bit, because today we are also going to the local elections. Who will answer the question of how we will link these two questions: the proportional system here, the proportional system there? As we will be holding such elections together in March, both of us, with such a mixed system and with the changes that we are making today, what we are going to do and how we are going to bring about the administrative reform that is being announced today and more and more and say that it is coming into effect tomorrow. And who will answer these questions? That is, today's amendment of the election of the members of the Supreme Council is not the very purpose. We must first answer for the strategic points. And the second is to deal with technology, with dynamics. With technology and dynamics in mind, I propose not to vote in favour of this bill today, but to finalize it carefully. But in the next vote, vote in general so that we know clearly and consciously vote for what and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen. Hare Vladimir, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The United Social Democrats faction believes that the issue is completely settled, and we could successfully go to the 2006 parliamentary elections with the law in force. But in order not to be part of a faction that violates certain arrangements, I would like to comment on the factions for which the faction might support the bill in the first reading and in general. The following comments. Dear colleagues, the point is that if we talk about who has broken the agreement, they are certainly the initiators of the bill, because we agreed that we would not introduce a new bill, but merely amendments and additions to a new one. This has not yet happened, so we have the situation that we have, and we need to discuss it. But what I would like to point out first. Dear colleagues, you don't have to write any of those rules under you and under that political situation that's convenient and can serve as a carte blanche to achieve the result. We can vote in favour of this bill, but without the 691, which my colleague Assadchev spoke about, which I am definitely in favour of. What are we talking about? That the list of documents submitted for registration contains a statement and an obligation to terminate the appointment of a member of the delegation or to establish a representative mandate. Read how this proposal has been written with changes and additions and with the obligation to obtain the authority of the national deputy. What are we talking about? This is a development that President Yushchenko can lead the electoral list of the People's Union "Our Ukraine," but he does not assume the obligation to impose the power of the President of Ukraine in the event of his election as a national deputy. This means that those who claim additional results from the President's presence on the party list want to use his possible authority, to hold the largest number of deputies to Parliament, but do not put the President in an awkward position, so that he can explain why he does not actually enter the mandate of the People's Deputy and does not constitute presidential powers. So, with the exception of this rule, Social Democrats can support this bill, but in the first reading and generally as a law. But in order not to offend anyone and continue to write some of the rules under themselves and under the political situation, under the conjuncture, we propose to introduce article 121th, which says that changes and additions to this law can be made no later than 240 days before the election day, which is the number left for the parliamentary elections of March 2006 of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next call. If our proposals are not taken into account and the 691st amendment continues to oppose, then we consider it better not to vote on this bill at all, but to block it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u67	Honorable national MPs, all who have shown a desire to speak from the faction, have taken advantage of this opportunity. It's a closing statement. Yuri Klukkowski, do you have any grounds for concluding? Please, one minute. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u68	Dear colleagues. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the opportunity to make a closing statement. I want to tell you that the discussion on this issue has shown that for the time being, in the Supreme Council, everything is based on mistrust, everyone suspects others of cheating, and obviously because they are willing to deceive themselves. And I'm very sorry that the draft was simply about a demonstration of mistrust. The second thing that's demonstrated today. Dear colleagues, you don't even have such interesting drafts for you, because this bill was registered in April of this year, and it was handed out at the first meeting in May of this year, that is, two months ago. So no one fools anyone. And when the Conciliation Council discussed a specific issue of the bill, it was this bill that you all held in your hands for a long time. Of course, you can blame someone for wanting to monopolize, but I'm not saying that some people monopolize, for example, the question of privatization of metallurgical industries. The same could be true of some. That is why the initiators of the bill and the committee proposed. I'm asking you to give me a chance to finish. That's why we offered to read in two readings, and if the insistence of some factions to accept in general supported the hall, then we demanded that a working group from different factions be created to remove political suspicions that unfortunately overcrowded the consciousness of some deputies or whole factions. I understand the fate of this bill today. We have already worked hard on such things once when we were running local elections under the 1998 law in 2002 because we did not want to take reasonable steps here. For God's sake, it's your will. You have to choose by this law that is today. But then I ask you not to complain that there are not so many provisions of the law. I want to emphasize once again, the wisest thing to do today is to take it as a foundation and work with that working group that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the bill was introduced on April 28, 2005. At the suggestion of the National Deputies, a table was made so that MPs could see the active law. Dear colleagues, the law was introduced on April 28, 2005. At the suggestion of national MPs, heads of MPs and factions, a comparative table was made and this really comparative table was prepared yesterday to make it more convenient for deputies to be guided. I'm begging you! I don't comment on the metallurgy business when I don't understand it! So, ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed with you that we will accept this document on the basis that we will be able to take another look at this document. Then accept it as a law in general. That's why I'm now putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to read this project. Change the vote. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, in a discussion by our faction, Vladimir the Hare, at the commission of the faction, stressed at the moment of existing mistrust, and we have reasonable grounds for that. I would like to remind the previous speaker. Not long ago in the Supreme Council, we were looking at the Law on Elections in a Proportional System, neither the author of the law nor the political party voted for it. As the initiator of the proportional electoral system, as the author of the bill, people did not vote in favour of the bill. So please tell me what confidence in the political forces you can talk about when a person pulls a card five seconds before the vote and thinks it's gone. That is why we raised our question of mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! You're given a draft decree, registration number 6631-2/2P, signed by the leaders of MP groups and factions, and there are twelve signatures. Not all of them, I'm saying not all of them. It is thus proposed that the draft Law should be adopted, that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government should consider the proposals made during the discussion of the bill and those that would come from the subjects of the right of legislative initiative by 1 July 2005 and that the proposed bill should be prepared for consideration in the second reading on 6 July 2005. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. Please vote. [[12:11:24]] For 258. Decision taken. I ask you to prepare a bill in due course for consideration in the second reading. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 78, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 11, People's Party - 33, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, SDP (o) - 15, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 11, Party "Industrials, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 2, non-fractional - 16. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Korean People's Democratic Republic on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Will to Sentence is being announced for consideration. I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs, if everything is clear to deal with these matters expeditiously. The report invites Justice Minister Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please, Roman Mihailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u72	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, the distinguished Ukrainian national MPs, is submitting to your consideration a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for punishment. An integral part of the draft Law is the text of a treaty made up of 22 articles. The agreement between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment was signed on 12 November 2004. It should be noted that the legal relationship between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the transfer of sentenced persons is not settled today. At the same time, part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides that foreigners who have committed crimes in Ukraine and who have been convicted on the basis of this Code may be transferred for punishment for the crime committed to that State of which they are citizens if such a transfer is provided for in Ukraine’s international treaties. The conclusion of the said treaty does not require changes to the current legislation and additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, as its implementation will be provided within the limits of the funds allocated to the State budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of the Minist, the criminal enforcement system and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the above, are invited to take a decision on the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u73	Please, three minutes to ask. Sign up, dear fellows. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u74	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, faction of "Our Ukraine." Roman Mikhailovich, the DPRK is a totalitarian Communist country. Can't the ratification of this agreement lead to a situation. A political refugee from Korea found himself in Ukraine, committing a crime, in a Ukrainian prison. We will bring him back to Korea, where he will be condemned as a political refugee or on political grounds. Won't this agreement be ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament in violation of the 1975 Helsinki conditions. And did Western countries not have the experience of repatriating Soviets and refugees there directly into the Stalin camps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Eugene, the persons you are talking about belong to the category of persons who are subject to settlement, not by the 1975 Helsinki Agreements, but by the Geneva Convention of 1951 concerning Refugees. There is particular mention in this treaty, in this convention of which Ukraine is a party, that any person who has reason to believe that he may be a subject of political persecution in the sovereign territory of the State of Ukraine has the opportunity to submit applications to the relevant authorities of Ukraine in order to gain political refugee status. And of course, those who will have such status as we have given them do not have the operation of this treaty. Moreover, those who have received such status from other States, the parties to the Geneva Convention and who move to Ukraine’s sovereign territory are also not covered by the treaty. Since the Geneva Convention makes it very clear that any party that has granted such status to any person, the other parties to this convention are obliged to recognize this status. That is why there is no such problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u76	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Roman Mihailovich, please tell us what is the size of the Korean community in Ukraine, if you have such information, and the Ukrainian community in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. How many were condemned on the one hand and on the other? So how relevant is this question? That's the first question. And about the totalitarian state. Now my colleagues have informed me that, as if in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea there are no prisons at all, there are other ways of disciplining. Please tell me, what do you know about this? We've got tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands in jail, and there's no one there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u78	As for the second part of your question, Mr. Jury, with all due respect to you, I must pay attention to the fact that I am not authorized to give such qualifications to the internal political situation in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. So I'm going to ask your indulgence not to force me to answer a question that I'm not authorized to answer. As for the first question, the first part of your question. I have to admit that it was not a subject of study by the Ministry of Justice, because this agreement itself is a framework, that is to say we have such agreements with all the countries of the world or with almost all the countries of the world with which we have normal, even friendly relations. Given that we have such a relationship, that perhaps you can also view it as an appropriate comment on the second part of your question with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the government considers it appropriate and this is also confirmed by the President of Ukraine, since the bill has been tabled by the President of Ukraine, which would be good to regulate this area, which is not yet settled. Therefore, it is a very big request to support the relevant bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, sit down. From the committee of Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u80	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Will to Sentence. The ratification of this Treaty, which was signed on behalf of Ukraine on 12 November 2004, will create the necessary contractual legal conditions for the effective cooperation of the two States on the transfer of persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty for further punishment in Ukraine and citizenship, which aims to facilitate the rehabilitation and social rehabilitation of such persons. The purpose of the bill under consideration is to carry out mandatory domestic procedures conducive to the effectiveness of the Treaty, namely its ratification with the subsequent exchange of instruments of ratification, resulting in its validity for 30 days after such an exchange in accordance with article 22 of the Treaty. The Treaty does not require changes to current legislation or additional expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said and what is being done under the Law of Ukraine international agreements, this Treaty is subject to ratification as regards human rights and the citizen, which is carried out through the adoption of the Law on Ratification, which is an integral part of the text of an international treaty, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Will and for Punishment and to adopt it as a whole as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u81	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? We'll vote then. You didn't sign up. What if you're not on the monitor? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for punishment. Registration number 0262. Please vote. [[12:22:15]] For 245 Act adopted, deal ratified. There is a draft law on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, registration number 0264. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, Minister of Justice. Prepare Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You are considering a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. The agreement between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was signed in Kiev on October 10, 2004. The need to establish this year is driven by the desire of both States to develop cooperation and to resolve international legal relations between Ukraine and Egypt in the area of criminal justice through the creation of a mechanism to provide mutual legal assistance for the prevention and investigation of crimes in criminal cases and the confiscation of proceeds obtained by criminal means. According to subparagraphs "d" and "e" in part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this treaty is subject to ratification. No additional budget expenditure is foreseen. Honourable national deputies, taking into account the foregoing, are invited to decide to ratify the treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u83	Any questions? Sign up, three minutes. Solomonine, please. Chernobyl, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, this is very conveniently mentioned here by the Law of Ukraine on International Contracts, and it is necessary to adopt, ratify and provide appropriate information in accordance with this law. Tell me, please, this is a very interesting situation. Two years ago, Ukraine ratified the European Charter of Regional Languages. And for two years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has torpedoed the transfer of ratification letters to the Council of Europe. What can the Supreme Council do to put the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Jury, I could answer you in such a way that my answer to your question will have no effect on the scope of the regulation proposed by the bill. Of course, I have to give you due respect for your political skill, that you're still forcing the minister to answer such, I understand, rather acute questions for your faction. But let me then get my answer out of the political context and remind us all about how the Charter Ratification Act was going on when I was standing on the same stand and I was paying attention to you, all of us, that the law is not bad, because it will create problems with his depository, about the deposit of the international instrument itself. [[I'll give you an answer anyway.]] I won't go for all the reasons. I understand, Mr. Peter, but this is about the deposit procedure. If there's a law. There are rules that call into question the ability of a State that is a party to the treaty to implement them, and of course they may arise from the deposit procedure and the problem. I'm not gonna call everyone one of the hottest. We decided to use the language we called "Jewish" to protect the paper. Please tell me, which of the Hebrew languages will the State of Ukraine defend under this charter? These are the questions that the depositary is asking us, and since this question is not solved, we cannot formally complete the procedure itself. That is why I would very much like to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in addition to the fact that it does not have anything to do with this bill, to take this situation into account, and perhaps to return to the instrument itself and to accept the necessary changes, which will allow for the formal completion of the deposit procedure for this international instrument of ratification. I think we can talk about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u86	Roman Mikhailovich, let's talk about Egypt. Then you'll give the answer in person. I've already announced, Mr. Cranwell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u87	Mr. Romane, as far as you can count on it to be under this treaty. The rights of specific citizens, i.e. not only the legal sphere of both States, will also be protected. We have two legal problems in the Arab Republic of Egypt. One, it's a huge number of people who are just there with tourism, with rest, who are very often having legal problems. We realize that this is not entirely the subject of this treaty, but can its articles be applied to these people and to a much lesser extent than in other countries, but there are also problems of trafficking in human beings, including sexual slavery. Can the standards of this treaty be involved in these two categories?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u88	I don't see any reason for that. for such concerns, for such concern, because this treaty itself provides for an information-sharing procedure. The exchange of information, the transmission of official documents and the like. In particular, this treaty is very much needed in the context of the laundering of dirty funds — funds obtained by illegal means. In order for us to fulfil our obligations under other international treaties that we have ratified in this session hall, and in order to be able to also implement our national legislation, in particular in this area, we need appropriate international bilateral instruments to be able to obtain such information as is simply necessary, and in the absence of which we will not be able to carry out these obligations. No, they do. I can tell you that. They apply to any sphere that, according to the national legislation of the treaty parties, is subject to criminal conduct, so in any area. But then I would also like to point out that the Supreme Council has a draft of the Criminal Procedure Code, where these are exactly the things you're talking about, Mr. Taras, should be so regulated that it does not extend the operational powers of the law-enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's organs, as it was an effort when the bill was considered in the first reading, but in order to preserve and protect human rights and freedoms. This is the main task of any procedural legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Marcus Maria Andriyevna from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u90	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The ratification of this treaty, signed on behalf of Ukraine on 10 October 2004, and its effectiveness is expected to create an effective contractual and legal mechanism to provide mutual legal assistance to prevent and investigate crimes, prosecute criminal cases and confiscate proceeds obtained by crime. The purpose of the bill under consideration is to implement mandatory internal procedures aimed at acquiring the treaty’s validity, namely, its ratification and subsequent exchange of instruments of ratification by the contracting parties. As a result, in accordance with article 23 of the Treaty, it will become effective on the 30th day following that exchange. The conclusion of the treaty does not require changes to existing legislation or additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, as well as the fact that, according to the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this Treaty is subject to ratification, such as the rights, freedoms and duties of a person and a citizen carried out by means of the adoption of the Law on Ratification, an integral part of which is the text of an international treaty. The Committee decided to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and to adopt it as a whole as the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna, sit down. Yes. I am voting on the adoption of the Ratification Act between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, registration number 0264. Please be supportive. You have to sign up for it. [[12:32:44]] For 238. The law is passed. The treaty is ratified. Question is, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the Extradition of Offenders, registration number 0265. Justice Minister Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Prepare Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u92	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected Ukrainian national MP, is being reviewed by a similar bill that applied exactly to Korea, right now on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the issue of offenders. The treaty was concluded in Cairo on October 10, 2004. The need to make a treaty is caused by the desire of both States to develop cooperation and to settle international legal relations between our two states in an area that is not yet regulated. In particular, I would like to point out that this will also be my answer to one of the previous questions concerning one of the previous international treaties. This treaty, by the way, and the preceding one, identifies such crimes that involve extradition, as well as mandatory and optional grounds for refusing extradition, including extradition, which cannot be permitted for crimes of a political nature. So this question is very clearly settled in these framework agreements. I'm not going to read all my speech to save time. Let me just point out to the stenogram that the contract does not require additional budget costs. So please, given what I have said above, support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Any questions? Let's sign up. Please, three minutes. Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u94	Roman Mihailovich, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company I have a question: Did the party that Egypt ratified the relevant document or not? And please pass on the word to Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u95	Thank you. If we are in the process of ratification, I must be sure that this document will work. In this regard, I would like to familiarize myself with the implementation of a treaty. You said the depositary of the Charter of European and Regional Languages asked questions. I would like to say, for general development, what was the form of the question? What number was this question asked? And is there any materiality on this issue? I'm sure I'll hear an accurate and positive answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u96	Thank you. But it's not a question for me, it's a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that deals with this issue. Because on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I was responsible. And that's why he reported it from exactly the same rostrum, although otherwise legal, not as a minister of justice, but as a national deputy of Ukraine, which allowed me to also make much broader comments about the subject that was proposed for the legislative settlement. And in order to prepare the issue for consideration here, in this room, the highest and only legislative body of our state, I have, of course, been forced to, I would like to add, to communicate with the relevant bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly or the Council of Europe, and in my communications or relations with them, it is also writtenly confirmed, these issues, as in many other cases, have been raised. For example, though. How are we going to budget for the execution of protection until, or should we say perhaps, a total of 17 languages, when other states that have made appropriate commitments under this charter have, at best, committed themselves to only six languages. If you have also read the corresponding budget for the current year, you could also conclude that there are no budgetary allocations. Based on such considerations, he only allowed himself to make comments that I had made by crossing a certain limit. I'd like to let you all understand what I said back then. I find it unacceptable that the Charter of Regional Languages should not be applied in Ukraine. And that is why I believe that there is a shared responsibility both for the government and for Parliament to find a legal way out of this problem. It's about the ratification of Egypt. I'll apologize. I can't answer that. But I have no reason to doubt that Egypt will ratify the relevant international instrument.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u97	Yes, please, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u98	I'll give you a little warning. You said it was a similar agreement to one signed with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The title of the Law on Ratification mentions the transfer of persons sentenced to imprisonment. This treaty deals with the extradition of wrongdoers. In our legislation, we have a slightly more tactful understanding. Is it about those who have been charged but who have not been brought to justice? For example, those detained very often without guilt, our sailors in the ports of Egypt, will they also betray them, without waiting entirely under human often court conditions, to betray Ukraine for investigation? Does this not extend to such categories?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u99	Exactly as far as this Treaty is concerned, Mr. Tarasse, there is a much broader list of the grounds, the legal basis for which our State may refuse to issue wrongdoers, that is, not persons who are already convicted, but who are either suspected of committing a crime or who have already been accused of committing a specific crime. A list of these reasons is quite long. Our procedure for refusing extradition may be mandatory or optional. Again, this is foreseen by an appropriate international treaty. In particular, I would like to point out that there is a very clear rule that, in the event that a person is suspected on our part that a person could be accused of committing a crime for political reasons, regardless of whether a person uses the status of a political refugee, as I said before, we will have all the legal grounds for refusing to issue such a person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u100	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. Maria Andrewna Marcus, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u101	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the issue of offenders. The ratification of this Treaty in order to be signed on behalf of Ukraine on 10 October 2004 and to become effective will be expected to create appropriate contractual and legal conditions for the effective cooperation of the two States on the issue of the extradition of persons who are being prosecuted by the competent authorities of one of the contracting parties for the commission of crimes or are being sought for the purpose of carrying out the sentence. The purpose of the bill under consideration is to carry out mandatory domestic procedures aimed at acquiring the treaty in force, namely its ratification with the subsequent exchange of treaty-based instruments of ratification, resulting in its entry into force on the 30th day following such exchange in accordance with article 19 of the Treaty. The conclusion of the treaty does not require changes to the actual legislation or additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, as well as the fact that, in accordance with the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this treaty is subject to ratification as regards human rights and the citizen, which is implemented through the adoption of a law on ratification, an integral part of which is the text of an international treaty. The Committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to consider a draft Ukrainian law ratifying the agreement between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the extradition of offenders and to adopt it as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u102	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues! There is a motion for approval of the draft law on the ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the issue of offenders, registration number 0265. Please vote. [[12:42:44]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on to the questions in the section "For inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the reduced procedure." Please, Dragnibok, what procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u103	Vladimir Mikhailovich! It's a question of Lviv, the decision of Lviv, the Lichakow Cemetery. You then said to put it to a vote, put it in the agenda, and it didn't go away. But then you promised that we would look at it when we looked at "To inclusion in the agenda" and consideration of the reduced procedure. Because of this, I ask you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to put the matter to the vote again in order to put it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, what do you think? So let's do it that way. In view of the decision of the Conciliation Council, I once again put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the subordination of Polish military burials in 1918-1929 on the territory of the historic cultural reserve of Lichakovsky Cemetery. Registration number 7694. Please vote. [[12:44:44]] For 249 Decision taken. You've been given a draft decision? I'm voting on the draft order, registration number 7694. [[12:45:16]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 5, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 37, People's Party - 23, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 27, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, SDPU - 16, Democratic Ukraine - 5, "One Ukraine" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, "Afterfractional" - 12. Dear colleagues, once again, we are now discussing the inclusion in the agenda of very important drafts, which were discussed on the Conciliation Council. All of you supported it. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on Sanitary Epidemiological Food Standards]] Registration number 7595, 7595-1. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, please vote. Let's vote, then we'll be out of procedure. Please vote. [[12:46:43]] For 239. Decision taken. That's what's proposed. Now, one minute, I'll tell you, then you'll fix me. Such a procedure is proposed. For the report, 3 minutes and for the co-reporters, 3 minutes, discussion, decision-making over time. Ah, it's a shortcut procedure, 2 in, 2 in. What are the reasonings of the procedure? Peanut, please. Now, Mikola Efremovich, I'm sorry, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u105	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the honourable colleagues, this bill, which we voted for, logically emerges from the bill on the quality and safety of food and food raw materials. This bill provides for changes to other laws. It can only be when we accept the quality and safety of food. Therefore, it would be logical to consider Bill 7587 first, and then to consider the bill with a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u106	Well, since we've already made a decision, I think that your argument will be taken in the session room, and we'll make the right proposals. Please, Health Minister Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is designed to improve the Ukrainian legislative base in the area of sanitary and epidemiological welfare, quarantine, veterinary medicine and to bring them into line with international standards and requirements of the WTO Agreement, in particular the Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. The bill introduces changes and additions to a series of legislative acts to harmonize with international standards and requirements of the WTO legal system. In particular, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences has been amended to increase responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of the authorities and officials of the Sanitary Epidemiology Service and State Veterinary Medicine. The amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare include a substantial expansion of the number of terms used in its application and its specific definition. [[Article 1]] According to the bill, food requirements are established by the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[Article 17]] Amendments to article 42 have been made, according to which major public health doctors have banned production or circulation, as well as removals from the circulation of food, auxiliary materials, and so forth in accordance with Ukrainian laws on the safety and quality of food, and on removal from circulation, processing, disposal, destruction, or further use of non - quality and dangerous products. The amendments to article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals confer a right to prohibit the processing and implementation of food products contaminated with pesticide residues and agrochemicals are granted to specially authorized health authorities in the field of agrarian policy according to their competence. At the same time, it is proposed to exclude from the Ukrainian Law "On State regulation of imports of agricultural products" Article 4, which provides for certification and control of imports of imported agricultural products. The adoption of the bill will help to create transparency of Ukrainian legislation, bring it into line with the requirements of the WTO Agreement, create conditions for Ukraine to join the World Trade Organization and future integration and partnership with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u108	Mikolo Efremovich, thank you, too. I invite you to speak to the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Mikolaiovich Tereshuk on Bill 7595-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u109	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The aim of the national deputies of Ukrainian law is to bring our national legislation in the field of sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary regulation into line with the treaty of entry into the world trade organization. To this end, a group of national deputies have developed changes to our basic laws. In particular, the Law on the Quality and Safety of Food and Food Resources and the Law on Veterinary Medicine. And logically, if we are to quickly vote in favour of these bills, we need to make changes to a number of laws. In particular, the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare, the Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases, the Act on State Regulations for the Import of Agricultural Products, the Law on External Economic Activities, the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, the Code on Administrative Violations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these changes do not change the essence of the laws themselves, and this bill is purely technical. He agrees with the provisions of these laws that we today hope to vote on existing laws. In view of the fact that the Government has proposed a similar bill, they are very similar to each other, just to say that the bill, which has been passed by the people's deputies a little bit wider because it envisages amending the Law on the License of Certain Activities, the Law on the Protection of Plants, and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why we suggest that we accept, accept, accept, and adopt the Law, draft the Cabinet of Ministers, and draft the Law of People’s Deputies, then unify them, and put a harmonized bill on second reading. So I'm asking my fellow MPs to support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what? Well, sign up, please. Yes. You'll be performing, of course. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Solomon. What? Now, the procedure has been defined. I ask you to come to the beginning of your consideration of the matter and then there will be a procedure. We've already agreed on the procedure. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please. That's how we do it, and now we're doing it again. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. We didn't hear the speech from the committee. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna from the committee. Here comes the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's hurry up. But I think we're making these changes not in haste, but in very careful consideration and application of this bill with the law, which is discussed by my colleague Tereshuk, about the safety and quality of food. Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, have carefully considered draft laws of Ukraine to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 7595, and the National Deputies of Ukraine Tereshuk, Glady and Borzich. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine’s current legislation into line with the requirements of the WTO treaties and to eliminate its separate internal contradictions. What these contradictions are, then, is evidence of our objective realities. With regard to the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, it reflects the provisions that require regulation in the case of the adoption of Ukrainian legislation amending the Ukrainian Law on the Quality and Safety of Food and Food Commodity, amending the Law on Veterinary Medicine, amending the Law on Quarantine Plants, which was developed simultaneously with the aim of bringing national legislation into line with the norms and principles of the World Organization's treaties, trade in sanitary and phytosanitary measures and on technical barriers to trade. The bill, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Tereshuk, Gladys and Borzich, also contains a number of provisions that merit attention. They have proposed further amendments to some of the legislative acts governing relations in this area, namely: the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, and the protection of plants. The implementation of these bills will not require additional budgetary costs. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill and supports it. However, the committee, after considering the proposed bills at its meeting, considers it appropriate to recommend acceptance of government and to add all the changes proposed by our three national deputies. And in view of this, in view of the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we actually recommend that the government support this option with amendments to the laws passed by the Ukrainian People's Deputies in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u112	Let's move on to the performances. George Carmazin is invited to speak, to prepare Solomon. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly asked you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to have a comprehensive approach to resolving the legislative problems that exist. I don't see the complexity of the solution in this legislative act either. Why? Amendments are being made, the Code of Administrative Offences is being supplemented by Article 188 of the 20 brand, which is referred to as "Failure to meet legal requirements, regulations, regulations, regulations, administrations of organs and officials of the State Sanitary Epidemiology Service and State Veterinary Medicine", which provides for punishment such as the confiscation of these objects. I quote it here. So I wanted to go to the Justice Minister, and he's not here right now, so let him open the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and see how many patches there are. And maybe the ministry needs to sit down and make a new law-making very quickly, very quickly, I emphasize that we don't have to turn this off all the time and waste our time on it. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, obviously that the amendments to the Administrative Code should be reported by the Committee on Law Enforcement. It's obvious. Obviously, the changes to the Foreign Economics Act should be reported by another committee. And I think that's why we have a very low quality of legislation that's being adopted. The Supreme Council's CPD is smaller than the CPD in a steamboat because it's because of this kind of planning and giving to the government, throwing away such small-scale projects. I have no objection to the establishment of administrative responsibility for failure to comply with regulations, regulations or orders from authorities and officials of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service or veterinary medicine. I don't have anything to do with it. But I've got to the legislative technique, like these laws have been made. To date, a government bill can be adopted in the first reading, but at some point it would be desirable, at least until the end of the cabinet and before the constitutional reform of that government, to have quality comprehensive bills, but to do so, it would have to have a complex mind to protect people's interests in real terms rather than in pieces, as is done in these legislative acts, which are still countless today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u114	Jury Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I am primarily addressing those who are part of the Blackwater Non-Faction Union, and I am addressing the four million-dollar Blackwater people of Ukraine. Some of the political public figures have identified the victims and the exterminators. It is this law that is directed to your heart. And I explain to the misunderstood and the minister of health who went somewhere after his report. The point is that European legislation is five times more liberal than our native Ukrainian legislation, which was adopted by the National Commission on Radiation Protection of Ukraine and by the agreement of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, which is responsible for the health of the liquidators and the affected population of Ukraine. So once this law is passed, and our temporarily acceptable levels of radioactive contamination of food, forest products and others will be balanced, as it were, by European standards, we will have about 100 to 150.000 people from the four million Chernobyl people. I've already talked about this once from this very rostrum when we were trying to push this kind of innovation. So I call on all the deputies who are part of different factions to understand what they will do when the button is pressed. And the Chernobylites of all -- both the liquidators and the victims -- please take into account the results of this vote, who is the friend and who is the hidden enemy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u116	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Colinchuk, Odščina, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. The laws that are currently being considered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are of particular importance, given that our nation is preparing to join the World Trade Organization. These laws, to some extent, I want to emphasize this, are of a technical nature. In doing so, both bills certainly merit attention. In our view, the bill is somewhat broader and covers more about solving problems. The positive thing is that they will contribute to the implementation of national legislation in the areas of sanitary, veterinary, and phytosanitary regulation in accordance with the WTO Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. The adoption of the law will help to eliminate the internal contradictions of current legislation in this area. First of all, the changes that have been declared by Bill 7595-1 provide for the introduction of the provisions of the legislation, and I want to repeat some of them: these are the laws of Ukraine on external economic activity, on State regulation of imports of agricultural products, on licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs and others, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on veterinary medicine and on quarantine of plants. At the same time, there are some inadequacies that cannot be overlooked. One: I support Yuri Karmazin's thesis that there is no complexity in the bill. Bill 7595 is a government bill, which refers to the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. As Sergey Mikolaiovich Tereshuk has already said, this is inappropriate. Well, that's soft. Because this law has not yet been passed by the Supreme Council today, so it would really be logical to adopt this law first, and then to consider these laws that we are now considering. The bill has been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council at number 7587, and we will be considering it today. In this regard, it is appropriate to provide for the bill to take effect after the adoption of the above - mentioned law. Secondly, in today's consideration of two bills, governmental and parliamentary, which provide for similar changes in the field and complement each other, according to the People's Party faction, the position of both bills should be merged into one in preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u118	Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU, please. And the people's deputies, please invite us to the session room -- we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u119	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, I would like to highlight a few points that we should actually expect in the event of a positive vote. These are changes in food standards. Where, then, are we making changes? First. Ukraine’s Code of Administrative Offences is proposed to be supplemented by an article. This article foresees that failure to comply with regulations, regulations, or orders of authorities and officials of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service or State Veterinary Medicine regarding the destruction of dangerous human, animal and other uses of food, food ingredients, and aromatizers carries the confiscation of these objects. The other one. Ukraine's Foreign Economics Act. Article 18 of this Act is proposed to reduce significantly by establishing that animals imported into Ukraine should meet the requirements established in accordance with health, veterinary, phytosanitary and technical regulations in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Third. The Ukrainian Health and Epidemiological Welfare Act. Article 1 of this Law is proposed to supplement the terms and definitions used in the field of sanitation and epidemiological control. And some additions follow a number of other articles. Four. Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. Article 17 of this Law proposes to supplement the provision that, in the case of food pollution, pesticide residues and agrochemicals in quantities exceeding the established standards, the right to prohibit their processing and implementation is granted to specially authorized health and agrarian authorities according to their competence. Article 18 reinforces the requirement for maximum residues of pesticides and agrochemicals. Article 19 is deleted at all. Fifth. Ukrainian Law on State Arrangements for Agricultural Imports, 4 delete the article altogether. And the sixth. It's the Ukrainian People's Protection Against Infectious Diseases Act. Changes to this law are usually of a terminology nature. I would like to point out that the changes and additions outlined above are designed to improve the kind of legislative base of Ukraine, and in fact the government is doing its best to bring this legislation into line with international standards and the requirements of the World Trade Organization. In this option that we're asked to vote for these bills, we can't vote if we're talking about the San and Epidemic of Welfare that should be in our country. Therefore, these bills must be sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u120	Yes. Dear colleagues, discussion of draft laws, registration numbers: 7595, 7595-1 completed. I ask you to prepare for the vote. With motive? Please write it down for reasons. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u121	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Well, Your Honor, we've been in this process of entering the WTO longer than China. And we're all saying that China has taken out special conditions for itself. Well, we're in different weight categories compared to China. In China, there were WTO countries interested, and in joining the WTO, we are interested. We're touching that we're going to go in there at all, and no one's going to let us in. I therefore propose to vote in favour of the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u122	Yes. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u123	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners and Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bills that we are proposing before adoption is to bring the standards of Ukrainian legislation closer to the quality of Ukrainian production to European quality. You and I are witnesses of how foreigners come to our home, including food products from Ukraine, and some of them are exported abroad. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to what they are obviously attracted to, not only to the low cost of our production, but also to the high quality. If we adopt this bill, we need to understand that Ukraine, and from this to the most vulnerable groups of the population to which pensioners, veterans, and disabled people are concerned, is going to be consumed by all European non-use. And so, honourable colleagues, the Communist faction will not vote for the document and call on others not to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u124	Mikhail Dobkin. Faction of the SDPU (o)
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u125	Mikhail Dobkin, faction of Social Democrats, city of Harkov. I want to go first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u126	The microphone works, the cell phones are turned off, and it will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u127	I would like first of all to address the radio audience and the TV viewers who are watching today's broadcast by the Supreme Council. I would like to address the Minister of Health and draw the attention of all our radio listeners and televisers to the fact that our Constitution is being violated again today. At the same time, both the Minister and the People's MP, Poliscuk Nikolai Efremovic, represent the law and will vote for it. Taking advantage of the presence here of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, I would like to address you: after all the speeches you made during the Orange Revolution, here from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, put in your parliamentary powers or write a statement and stop being a minister, do not violate the Constitution, which you have called for during all the known events in our country. And do it in public today, show an example to all your comrades, maybe they'll listen to you as a very respected man in this country, and they'll start writing these statements for you, too, and not break the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now heard a great many things that even this law does not contain. Because when you take the Pesticides and Agrochemicals Act, you see what's written there, let's say in article 18, that the raw material should meet the sanitary requirements for maximum pesticide residues and agrochemicals. How they fulfill their responsibilities depends on their conscience, their control. And that's why I'd like us not to block now, but we could look at the first reading and make proposals for the second reading, if there's anyone out there who sees any danger. Many of the dangers they're talking about right now, I just can't see they're artificial, because we can remove what's related to the food supply, and there's something else that's here in the comprehensible apparatus that's now given to us in the law. We're going to remove everything and we're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u130	Thus, my fellow Members, we have every reason to move on to the voting procedure. In accordance with the Rules, a government project is the first to vote. This is registration number 7595 of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation for adoption as a basis. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] Please vote. On the ground, please vote. [[13:14:28]] For 208 The decision is not taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, registration number 7595-1. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] Please vote. [[13:15:07]] For-160. So, honourable national MPs, the first bill has taken 208 votes, the second bill is 160, so maybe there's an offer like that. [[N o M e s s a ……]] One moment! put to the vote the return to the vote under Bill 7595. [[government]] Please vote. [[13:15:44]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, then the next proposal is to re-read. Well, let's vote, then we'll be motivated. What? Well, the vote is coming, Your Honor's colleagues, but the motives are already defined. There is a motion to re-read Bill 7595, please vote. Let's vote, dear fellows. [[13:16:26]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Now here's the next one. From what? Please, Shuma microphone. We've got a lot of work to do, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u131	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think we are now witnessing an unprecedented incident. I've seen in three years at the Supreme Council such a messerschmitt minister who's here. He had just been sitting in a cabinet, in a government bed, and in three seconds he was running around five rows and voting. For as long as we can bear it. Or let's ban ministers from running around the hall, because I can't choose another word, or we'll put an end to it. How much can we abuse the Constitution in general? Today the minister has not been authorized, it is not known how much he receives. I've written an obvious application for a vacation. And this is all the party that came to power, the Party of Our Ukraine. What's more, today it's transformed into the People's Union of Ukraine. This is their democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we need to now include in the agenda and decide on the draft Law on the development and application of technical regulations and procedures for assessing accountability. This is registration number 7586. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. Please vote. Please vote. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's not lose our jobs. [[13:18:21]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 66, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, People's Party - 29, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPU - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 12, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, non-fractional - 13. [[I'm reading "for."]] Dear colleagues, please, you may not have been able to mobilize. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and procedures for assessing accountability. Registration number 7586. It's a beautiful law. Please vote. [[13:19:28]] For 246 We're back to the hearing. Now I'm voting on the proposal to include the draft law in the agenda. [[Registration number 7586]] Please vote. [[13:19:54]] For 232 Decision taken. The reporter is the first deputy head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Sejevich Ivan Bronislavovich, please. Sergey Matvienkov, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, will be the focal point.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization is not possible without the creation of a flexible modern system of technical regulation that fully meets the WTO requirements and is able to respond quickly and adequately to the needs and demands of the national economy, producers, consumers and trading partners in terms of competitive production and services in a globalised market. This activity is now based on legislation on standardization, verification of conformity, and a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on standardization and certification. Ukraine’s rate of entry into the World Trade Organization revealed the need to improve this legislation in line with WTO requirements, including agreements on technical barriers to trade. The purpose of drafting the bill is to bring national legislation into the field of technical regulation, standardization and conformity assessment in full compliance with WTO rules and principles, including agreements on technical barriers to trade. The bill sets out the procedure for the development of standards and the application of technical regulations, defined functions of the request centre and commenting on standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. The implementation of this act will allow Ukraine's legislation to be implemented prior to the agreement on technical barriers to trade and will ensure the necessary level of safety of products, processes and services that are being implemented in Ukraine's market, create conditions for national producers to produce competitive products through the identity of safety requirements, environmental protection, and so on, to facilitate mutual recognition of the results of the products. The implementation of the bill will enable the supplier to choose how to confirm compliance by declaring its products to be compliant with a regulatory instrument or certification. In view of the foregoing, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the draft Ukrainian Law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u134	Thank you, sit down, please. Before giving the word to Sergey Matvienkov as the head of the subcommittee, I would like to remind the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council today at 2 p.m. in the conference room. 2:00 p.m. like we agreed yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, we're working. It's just a reminder. 14th hour, conference room, please be the leaders of MP groups and factions. Sergey Matvienkov, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, has the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Matvienkov, 155th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! As has already been said, this bill is introduced for adoption in accordance with the legislative framework, with the legal framework for Ukraine's accession to the WTO. The law is useful in making certain procedural points more clear, dividing functions, and requiring compliance. Accreditation is divided with the State Standardization, and there are a number of other positive points. But when we consider this bill on the committee, we have met with a number of points that are necessary today and which the Committee has instructed me to make a sound today. For example, article 33 determines that the technical regulation shall enter into force in six months. The following is the line: If urgent, it shall enter into force immediately if necessary. Who defined "immediately", what do you mean "extremely"? The term “responsibility” refers to an incomprehensible procedure for the issuance of documents. Again, the procedure for improving the importer's system of work is clearly laid down. For example, there are no accreditation requirements for the laboratory that works when importing, importing, and not necessarily staff conformity. But this, I tell you, is not the most important issue facing the committee in its consideration of the bill. The main thing is that we have been drafting two bills over a year: a bill on standardization and confirmation of conformity. These bills had a very difficult, difficult destiny: we have completed each and every one of these bills, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the State Standard. They're really exhausted, these bills. and they have received a better assessment in the CIS of compliance when Ukraine joins the SOT. The Cabinet of Ministers was instructed to develop technical regulations in the “end-of-service” of these bills. As long as there are virtually no ministers of action on the side of the Cabinet, that is, in order for these laws to work properly, we simply need to put out some sort of 80 to 70 technical regulations -- and we could join the WTO, work at the EU level, work at the EU level, work on these laws and there are no problems. Instead, one technical regulation was adopted over three years. Now, for some reason, both to the Committee and to me as a deputy, why we are drafting a new law and putting it back on the table. I'm asking you, why do we have a lot of time, or is it worth joining the S.O.T.? If you enter the SAT, let us develop technical requirements and regulations. The only thing I found, the answer is, the winged phrase, I wrote it down for myself, and I'm going to write it down, and I can hang it as a slogan that this bill is spreading export horizons. It's in the explanatory note written by Kabmin. Well, would you excuse me if he was moving? Where does it go? It's hard to understand. But why aren't we working on the already advanced path, I don't understand. The Committee has therefore taken a unanimous decision: to reject the bill and to take advantage of those that have already been adopted and are operating in the legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u136	So, we're gonna vote, right? Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I am truly grateful to the committee that placed the accent quite right. Instead of the two laws that have already been passed and worked on the development and application of technical regulations and procedures, conformity assessment, this law proposes to replace the laws that we already have. Worked, Standardization and Compliance Confirmation. This law, I repeat, does not achieve a comprehensive settlement of the entire domestic sphere of technical regulation, nor will it contribute to bringing national legislation into line with the WTO. This law will not contribute to the security of products, processes, and services that are being implemented in Ukraine’s markets. This law restores the system of administrative influence in the field of technical regulation, that is, we make life worse for our producers. Let's make it worse! Why are we doing this? Next. Additional powers of influence have been created on them by the State. Next. We're creating an additional body at the Central Executive Authority for standardization, for standardization. Maybe it's to figure out how to exterminate members of the Party of Fatherland's Defenders, because that's what this body is doing right now. Write it down, we'll ask you a question. That there are now enemies of democracy who are hunting for a witch who has nothing to do with it, as I have seen now, because you are now passing a bill that is not worthy of it, you have again established the Prime Minister. She waves these bills without reading them. So, ladies and gentlemen, then talk about working with a government that doesn't want to understand the basic issues that exist, and they say we want to go to WTO. But you're not going to the S.T.A., you're catching up with Zimbabwe on a level playing field. I must have insulted Zimbabwe. I insulted Zimbabwe. So the honourable national MPs, according to the committee's assessment, have to be rejected and we have to make a comment to the Scientific and Expert Office, which recommended that this law be adopted in the first reading. I don't think such laws should be introduced here, and we shouldn't waste any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u139	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I'm talking to you. I feel sorry for you because you're stretching out in the spaghetti, as one of our colleagues says. On the one hand, you were last week in St. Petersburg, and there you were trying somehow to manage the relationship of an independent state of Ukraine with a road Russia and the mission to find for a domestic producer in space, the only economic space. On the other hand, where are you now? Now you're in a government coalition pushing out legislation that removes all obstacles to the entrance to the WTO, which is finally opening the door for the Euroloft. We have a Euro-renovation, a Euro-, you forgive me, and whores, there's a Euro-renovation that comes to us. And this legislation will destroy the domestic producer. What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? We finally give up our own name, "Ukraine." And I would like to say a few words about the discussion of the Government's Bill 7595 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on sanitary and epidemic food standards. I, in the opinion of the Chernobyl people, have characterized this bill, but I want to stress how the factions voted in favour of returning it to the first, second reading, that is, for further pushing it into Ukraine's life. It was voted in favour of returning it to the first-reading government of the "Our Ukraine", the National Party of Ukraine, i.e. the Party of Lithuania, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Socialists of Frost, the Ukrainian People's Party of Kostenka, the "Eda" of Hubski, the entrepreneurs of Kinach, the Democratic Initiatives and the non-fractional. They stood on the verge of this shameful act of Communists, Democratic Ukraine, Social Democrats, and the "Regions of Ukraine" -- voted only in the number six. So when I go to the voters, I want to say, and above all to the Chernobylers, take into account who and what I told you and who and how the Supreme Council of Ukraine treats your interests. Either they finish you off, or you make those who act against your interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, let me give you a calm answer to Yuri Petrovich Solomatin’s emotional statement. I'm in the session room, not in the government coalition, that's the first. And there you made a mistake. Secondly, I don't push legislation, I organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you prefer a word like this: "pushing" - use it. And I'm organizing the work of the Supreme Council according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vitaly Shibka, microphone, please. Yes, please, Vitalia Šibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u141	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that if we were to say "a" all of a sudden, we should say "b" now. Ukraine made its application for WTO. Since she has done so, she must do all the standardization that applies to the harmonization of all laws in order to join the organization. It is vital that we do so. Another matter of how to do so is slow or thoughtful, whether to do so so as not to cause any harm to our State and so forth. I want to look at this bill that we're discussing, and it's just that national legislation in the field of technical regulation of standardisation and conformity assessment is fully consistent with WTO norms and principles. So today it's clear that this is a document that works. But at the same time, we need to keep in mind what a colleague of Matvienkov has just said. In fact, there was this nonsense that happened at the committee meeting, when we already had those projects, not projects, and those laws that work, and there was a committee in the full composition of all the factions, that didn't agree at all to adopt another new law. Perhaps we should discuss the subject at this committee’s meeting, and how can we adapt what is applicable to this bill to the laws in force, whether it is possible or not? I think it's possible, because the bill that is now offering us, which we're proposing, is here a lot of terminology about the definition of terms. As far as I can remember, the documents or laws that we have in place do not have such a rich definition of terms. And I think that this really should be the place for the law to actually work. So he sees this: we can vote in the first reading, but we still have to take into account the laws that work. And the committee has to consider this first reading to take simply and complement the laws that exist, and adopt a law that will work, and not just take it emotionally to order it today, somehow today to tell you that you really want to be a member of the WTO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the draft Law has been reviewed. Three minutes, please sign up for motive. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u143	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to be so dramatic about this bill that it seems to destroy our manufacturer altogether. I assure my colleague Karmazin, and at a meeting last night with the Cabinet of Ministers, it was clear that the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers was an informed decision. And our Prime Minister is not the kind of person who would draw papers that are not known at least at expert level, and he considers it necessary to offer them to Parliament. So given that the bill is not free of certain flaws, but the general solution is made, there is a concept, and I propose that I vote for it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u145	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that six European uncles have visited us for days. Three arrivals, one from Georgia, two from somewhere else. They called themselves the world economic forum, no more or less, a commitment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact a series of Soviet laws for the sake of Europe. If that doesn't happen, or if the deputies are locked in the Supreme Council's premises, or if they're gonna take their vacations, and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues, at least on behalf of my faction, I would like to say that in this way, from under the baton, a faction of Communists will vote for not being in favour of the people of Ukraine, never will and never will. The Communist faction does not support this law and urges other factions not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u146	Yes. Anatoly Grzezhev gives the right to speak to Mikola Rudzikowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u147	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! You've heard the principle of socialists repeatedly against us being integrated into any international structures or the West. In the East, national interests were always advocated, protected primarily by a national producer. Only because of our principled position is the fourth time this session hall has been unable to pass that shameful customs law that could open our Ukrainian markets for agricultural production. Despite some governmental arrangements, some of our colleagues blocked the adoption of this law in its normal form. That's why we didn't vote for him. But we need to distinguish between laws that protect the Ukrainian market and support the manufacturer, and there are others that standardize Ukrainian products and procedures for world standards so that we can go out with our products there. And such laws sweat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. Now please prepare for the vote. The first proposal to adopt the draft Law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and procedures for assessing accountability is put to the vote. Registration number 7586. Please vote. [[13:40:08]] For 203 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 68, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 28, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 27, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 14, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, non-fractional - 12. What's the committee? Since this bill is important, it may be put back into consideration, and then, if not, it will be rejected. Yeah? Well, let's go through this procedure to. But we have to demonstrate and have a positive outcome. I'm voting on the motion to return to the draft bill registration number 7586, please vote. [[13:41:23]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Well, if you'll excuse me. The bill was rejected. Well, we had to confirm Yuri Petrovich's words. Oh, come on. Dear colleagues, please be mobilized and I hereby announce an extension of the morning session for 15 minutes, that is, up to 14 hours 15 minutes. You're welcome to work. We need to put it into the agenda now and make a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act. Registration numbers 7587, 7587-1. I'm betting on the vote to include the bill in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:42:25]] For 276 Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. Health Rapporteur Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, as well as Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Bartkov. Vasil Pavlovich Bartkov. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Sergey Anatoliyovich Matviyenkov. Please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The quality and safety of food in recent years has continued to be an issue worldwide. It is particularly important for governments and food producers in countries that are integrated into the world’s economic space. This applies directly to Ukraine, and one of the main tasks is to complete the process of obtaining membership in the World Trade Organization as soon as possible. The proposed draft law is developed as part of the Government's project "The Introduction of Ukraine to WTO" to harmonise Ukraine's legislation in the field of health and veterinary and phytosanitary regulation with international requirements. This is primarily the case with regard to the requirements of the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures and the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade. The bill clearly defines the system of government regulation in the areas of safety and quality of food products, the order of state control and public oversight in this area, the rights and duties of both manufacturers and sellers and officials who exercise State control and supervision. Ukraine’s participation in international cooperation in the security and quality of food is also envisaged. One of the main advantages of this bill is the delimitation of powers of State control and oversight: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, and the State Food Standards. Uncertainty in this matter does not allow us to understand what the characteristics or differences of government control and supervision of each of these institutions are, which creates preconditions for the complexity of the existing system of government oversight, duplication of functions, increasing the number of checks by experts of different departments on the same issues. The draft law settled this issue, restricting the authorization of the supervisory authorities. Sanitary and epidemiological authorities have been given control and supervision of processed food, veterinary services, unprocessed food products of animal origin, state-of-the-art services, standards and metrological security. In view of the fact that, according to international agreements, the mandatory certification of food products and raw materials for their manufacture is not carried out, the bill excludes all provisions relating to the mandatory certification of food products in the State Food Standards. The implementation of the bill will ensure an adequate level of protection of public health, ensure consistency, rationality and transparency of legislation, increase the responsibility of food producers and suppliers. The government is asking for Bill 7587 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u150	Yes, Sergey Tereshuk as one of the authors of the next project is invited to the report, Vasil Bartkov on his way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u151	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, Cherkaščina Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Both bills, both governmental and parliamentary, are needed today, given that we want to adapt our legislation to the accession of the World Trade Organization. The bill is both similar. I will not stop, they contain many similar articles, but there is an important, principled position that differs in both bills. It is based on the distribution of functional obligations regarding State control and the safety of animal food products between the State Veterinary Service and the Ministry of Health of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. In our bill, control functions remain in veterinary medicine. The government bill proposes control functions to pass on to an epidemiology station. Why, in our view, should the State Department of Veterinary Medicine exercise State control over the safety of animal food? Well, first of all, because for many years, that's exactly what happened in our country. It is the State Department of Veterinary Medicine that exercises State control and supervision over the safety and quality of raw materials and prepared animal food. This is provided by an existing system of laws, such as the Sanitary and Epidemiological Control Act, veterinary medicine, the quality and safety of food and food commodities, the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees. For this veterinary service there is adequate human capacity, there is a material base, including laboratories. The State Department of Veterinary Medicine is constantly operating on the world’s history, including a survey by veterinary specialists in other countries. It is the veterinary medicine that has been continuously monitored and supervised by state health professionals, both for raw materials and for prepared animal food products, since the latter can also be a factor in the transmission of agents of particularly dangerous animal diseases. The absence of direct veterinary health care and surveillance in the process of producing animal products from national veterinary medicine can lead to the introduction of pathogens of various diseases. You know the case in England. 29 billion pounds is a loss to what was a ferret. And the experience of the countries of European society where we are going shows that it is veterinary medicine that controls the quality and safety of food. This is exactly what our countries are bordering, and Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary. We believe that the bill drafted by the MPs is more appropriate today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u152	Do you have everyone? Dear colleagues! Now, Matthew Sergey, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, will brief you on the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District. Mariupol. Dear colleagues! As has already been said, the bill has been drafted in accordance with the requirements for Ukraine's entry into the WTO. The authority of the health and veterinary services was well spelled out in the Act, but there were a number of comments on which the Committee had made a special comment. First. To date, we continue to have three monitoring bodies: the Veterinary Service, the Sanitation Service and the State Standard. We have been constantly criticized by Europe that the three bodies that cannot find agreement cannot clearly maintain a control system. It is clear that if we had received a bill in which one body would be drafted, the rules of play and authority would be clearly stated. And, unfortunately, it's not. In addition, functions are not clearly distributed. For example, we take the 4th article: "food safety is determined only by sanitary measures". What about the rest of the rules? Six additional manufacturer requirements are defined. In principle, an additional six requirements are, let us put it this way, a mechanism of unnecessary obstacles for the manufacturer's own product. The concept of an operating permit is introduced. Let's say that in the committee, we saw this as a hidden licensing system. What about the suspension, the health-care-care-care stop? It cannot, of course, be without doubt to the producers, to those who are working on the market today. That is, in principle, the importer is created as favourable conditions and the domestic producer is subject to a specific press, under certain conditions. The Committee therefore stated that we have a good Law on the Quality and Safety of Food. We could focus on it, that's the first. Second, if the Law was already being written, it would be necessary to write such a law so that there would be one supervisory authority, clearly assigning its functions, powers, rules of play, and then the Act would work normally. No doubt, we have appealed to the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine to listen to their views, as well as to the people who are demanding to join the STO under this Act. We have come to the conclusion that a preliminary analysis of the draft legislation shows that some of their positions do not meet the rules and principles of WTO and the requirements of European legislation and may significantly worsen business conditions in Ukraine, as they create unnecessary obstacles to international trade and do not contribute to the full harmonization of basic principles and procedures in the field of technical regulation. It should also be noted that the situation of these projects in some cases is not consistent. President. Zukoske. After receiving such conclusions from the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine at the Committee's meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u154	What are we gonna vote on, huh? We need, then, to sign up, one minute, at the end. Yuri Carmazin. Then Olga Hinzburg signed up. Dear colleagues, please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honourable national MPs, both bills provide for relations, regulate relations between executive authorities, manufacturers, sellers, suppliers and consumers of food products, but somewhat different. I compared these two bills and, in my opinion, the best draft to be adopted is the bill of national MPs: Gladia, Bartkova, Melniczuk, Sulkovsky, Borzich and Tereshuk. It foresees a state-of-the-art measure of safety and food quality by establishing mandatory safety parameters for food products, minimum specifications for food quality in technical regulations, the establishment of sanitary measures and veterinary health requirements for the capacity of objects and persons involved in the production, sale, supply, storage, exposure of food. Now the question is that in the MP's bill, there's a much better written question about the powers of different services. The authorizations that are provided, let's say, in the MP's in article 6, the authority of the health service is clearly separated from those of the veterinary service. In my opinion, this will be able to separate these problems, the measures they are currently talking about, because in the 7th article, where they sign off on the veterinary service, it is clearly written that it carries out state-owned veterinary control and control over the capacity to grow animals, unprocessed food products of animal origin and the circulation of agricultural products, it produces appropriate veterinary documents that testify their veterinary health status, pre-casual inspection of animals and post-casual inspection of their products in combat, and post-casual inspection of animals killed in hunting and so on. Agree with me that this approach is a little bit better and more detailed than it is in government. Although I want to say that the government does not differ in many ways, in principle they could have been merged earlier, but they could have been used as a basis for 7587-1. I'm going to ask you to vote for that. And in the end, allow me, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you because the holiday season is about to begin. And now I've analyzed what happens when fellow MPs write vacation applications. But they don't work here since the February months, which could be vacations, which could be the money for recovery right now? 16 people are asking the question of fellow deputies. They don't sign up, if they're tabulated, it's illegal. So let's make a decision. If you don't go to work, you don't pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u156	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Olga Hinzburg, Conotapian constituency I, turning to this law, and having read it, it is so numerous, and here the explanation at all points is, I treated it in this way when I was looking at which countries still want our Ukraine if they accepted our country into the WTO. These are the countries they want from us. Don't bother me, because I've shuddered already. And I'm reading to myself, including this law that I'm going to stop below, I'm reading to myself. Honduras, a respected country or whatever it is, she writes to herself, if we were to accept Ukraine into the WTO, we need Ukraine to offer our country the creation of jobs for unskilled workers. Another European country writes, "We can take Ukraine to WTO if, for example, higher education institutions will be headed by non-Ukrainian citizens." Another country writes, "We can take Ukraine to the WTO if medical institutions are headed not by medical professionals, but by managers." And so on and so forth. I'm thinking, what do you care? Well, what do you care who's gonna lead us how we work? And when we looked at it on the committee, the committee didn't support that law. And I took it for myself to understand, and I'm reading to myself, "The World Health Organization, the relevant international organizations, the World Health Organization, the Codex Elementarius Commission, the World Health Organization," and so on -- all of these organizations agree to us, bring us sanitation, develop and review, change in Ukraine with the Codex Alternatives Commission, and so on. And you're thinking again, wait, and what's going on? I'd like to tell you more about this. And the next law that we're not going to get sugar. And you're asking questions again. What if the Cabinet of Ministers wants us to adopt these laws today, please tell me, a jerk who doesn't understand that today he's going to give my Ukraine an entry into the WTO that will give our budget to Ukraine? Why is the sugar so expensive in Ukraine today, and the government today does not take the lead in reducing the price of sugar? What the pensioners today feel today is that they eat up their pension prices. For those who have worked for 40 years, is there an apprenticeship and a great one, and these questions do not apply to this rostrum? You tell me, who is in favor of authority? Or to his people or to others? This question to me today has no answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u158	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder. Oh, he's filming his Masters. Please, Eugene Gorenik. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u159	Eugene the miner, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I ask the Europhobics and opposers of the World Trade Organization to calm down and breathe. Whether Ukraine joins the World Trade Organization or joins the World Trade Organization, order in the functions of the controlling authorities should still be directed. We really have a place of duplication of functions -- veterinary service, sanitation, nature and other, standardization, and other, similar services. And if someone is looking for something contrary in this law, I have to say that there is a black cat in the black room, as we know, especially if there is no cat. Then nothing can be found. I am reading the conclusions and motives of the committee that tried to reject this bill, and it is based on the fact that the bills do not address the question of duplication of functions of the public authorities. Well, I agree, really, they don't quite settle it. And for that, there's a second reading to fully address these functions. But are you the reason that you simply simply reject these bills? In principle, there is no particular difference between the two bills. The MP's bill follows some sort of veterinary lobbying. Well, he's too obvious a lobbyist, and maybe he doesn't need one. In addition, there are some contradictions, so it looks like the government's bill is more objective, and it could be accepted as a basis, then on the second reading, by supplementing the corresponding proposals from the MP's bill. I'm asking my fellow MPs to withdraw some political considerations when considering this bill. It is necessary, including necessary for the development of our small and medium-sized business, and also necessary for the international recognition of Ukraine. I suggest you take the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u160	Yes, Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! In any country that is part of the WTO and in any country that is part of the EES, health care for the safety and quality of animal food is not carried out by the health care service. In all countries the work is carried out by the State Veterinary Service, a veterinary health service. Thus, the bill prepared by the National Deputies corresponds to the substance of our present day. We're offered an experiment, we'll lack more experiments here. Today, Ukraine is the safest country in Europe, the safest country in the world. You know how much trouble England, Holland, Germany, Denmark, and encephalopathy have brought. Thank God we have it. He's not here. You know what it is. And let's cancel the veterinary service today. Since the king’s time, the veterinary service has exercised this control. And once again, thank God that she works actively and effectively in this direction. So what happens if we flip, we adopt the government bill, and what does that lead to? Let me read you four points. First, it will have to change the functions and structure of the State Veterinary Service, although it works successfully. Legislation on this issue will not meet international requirements, especially WTO. Legislation on this issue will not meet European requirements, nor will it be qualified to carry out a risk analysis of imports of animal food products, nor will duplication of functions be completely eliminated. And you tell me, if the medical department wants to take control of the quality of, say, milk, meat, and skin, and wool, and, after all, someone says, "horns and hooves," and, after all, tribal sperm animals? What, are you going to do medicine? It won't. So I ask, honourable Members, let's support the bill that was drafted by a group of national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u162	The statement has been completed. Right before the vote. Now, one minute, let's write it down with motivation, because there's a lot of people who want to. The Minister's closing statement. And I'd like to ask the national deputies to sign up for three minutes on the grounds of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u163	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, for a hundred years, the health service controls the safety of food. Now it's planned to give to the veterinary service. So poison yourself - go and treat the veterinarian! It's clearly written: all that goes on in the field, all that goes on in the fight, all that comes on the conveyor, is veterinary, all that goes on in the shop, medicine. It's clearly and clearly inscribed. For the last two years, the Minagropolitics have been lobbying for it. So take it, take it all, develop medical standards, health regulations, and the Ministry of Health will be here in no way! So once again, I want to say whether we're going to the WTO or not to go to the WTO, but to adopt the safety and quality of food law we have to do is our duty with you. Summer's coming, it's safe. And we have to let the vets draw up veterinary standards, let the medics develop medical standards. That's the whole point and difference of these laws. And everything else -- the deputy -- absolutely repeats a completely governmental, what it is a long time ago. That's why I'm asking you to uphold government law. It is designed for the safety of food for human life.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u164	Yes, for reasons, please include Bespali, Masenko, Sulkovsky. And then there's 19 people, but there's three minutes. Please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u165	Thank you. I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of the friendly faction of BUT Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u166	Eugene Kirilchuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u167	Thank you, thank you. No one is going to take up their duties at the food control station in Ukraine. The language goes so that we don’t embarrass ourselves beyond the borders when 150 veterinary doctors and a representative of a sanstana from Ukraine come. What are we going to look like? So let's say the flies are separate and the chops are separate. So let's take a smart proposal from the MPs so that at all levels we look like people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u168	Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u169	Thank you. For the sake of this law, we should say that the quality of our products is no longer properly controlled. And if those who put it all together and those who control it ate what is now being realized, maybe control would be much better. Actually, that was the situation. The action is dragged on to one another, and according to Karmazin's colleague, "and the Prime Minister only swings." And we had a situation where no one understood who and who should control it. That's why we have laws, we have things to control. I think that we should not go to Europe, but we should be guided by our legislation and have nothing to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u170	Paul Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u171	Dear National Deputies! Today, in order not to speak from the government, we have even listened to the speakers today, and we have come to realize that this government project does not need to be supported. To support, I urge and our faction to support the MP's project, it's more perfect and more transparent, and, indeed, it will be better to control food. Therefore, there is no need even to vote for a government project. We need to get to the vote now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And I urge you to support the MP's project for number 7587-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u172	Sergei Tereshuk, author and reporter, co-author of the bill. Call the deputies, we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention again. It's not about dragging the blanket, it's about dividing functions. And we don't make any special changes to our legislation, we clearly distinguish functions. We offer production control functions, after processing animal products, to leave the veterinary service. The functions of controlling the circulation of products are food establishments, it's retail trade, it's medicine. No one in medicine takes away the right to control the quality of the product. Such indicators as the salts of heavy metals, such as nitrates, radionucleids, all remain medical. You know, there's a field-to-table program that's supposed to be controlled by one service, not distributed somewhere in the middle of a few services. Then we're really not going to be okay. We suggest leaving it as practical as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! You're welcome to mobilize. The motive is over. The first is the bill of registration number 7587 of the government on amendments to the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act for adoption of the draft law as a basis. Please vote. [[14:10:49]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The draft Law 7587-1, which amends the Ukrainian Food and Food Quality and Safety Act, is put to the vote for adoption. Please vote. [[14:11:24]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, according to the factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 41, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 42, People's Party - 36, Block Timoshenko - 27, SPU - 27, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, SDP (o) - 12, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 9, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs - Ukraine" - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 9, non-fractional - 11. Yes, please, Rudzkowski, then Schurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u175	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I see we did the right thing by voting, because if anyone doesn't say the political slogans, we need to provide a stable, clear system for controlling food products that are being implemented in Ukraine. We see: how many poisons there are, the summer is coming. We must make sure that this Law is adopted before the end of this session, in order to provide the mechanism. If you put it on the vet, it's on the veterinary service. If it is the Ministry of Health, it is the Ministry of Health. And regardless of which organization we are part of, we must have clear food control. It's in every state. We had this in the Soviet Union, this system was broken. Now there are real possibilities to restore it and we have to adopt such laws without any political nuances.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u176	Igor Šurma, please. Then Carmazin and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u177	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I think we've made the right decision at the end of the day, because all over the world, control over the quality and safety of animal food is carried out by the competent veterinary authority. But I'd like to get back to the next one. We should get used to the fact that everything proposed by the Ministry of Health and its minister, who is a violation of the Constitution, bears signs of anticonstitutionality. Order 81, which was to dispossess medical posts, was canceled by the President on the transfer of the Ministry of Health's premises to the Ochmadit building. Today, there are desires, which are also within the limits of illegality, to take under the control of sanitation, and thus to control everything relating to the safety of the quality of animal products. I think we've made the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have addressed you, spending my time on what is being paid to fellow deputies not for the job done, I emphasize that they don't show up for work, there are only cards here, there is no work done. So let the cards stand, let's count how much, but it's impossible to count the salary. This is the first time. It's different. Give the order to the machine, give the accounting order not to count, pay or settle the questions on vacations, because that's illegal, that's the reason for the delay that's followed in the courts. And now we're blocking the appointment of judges, you know. Now the judges say if you're sending people on vacation, and they've already said they've written a vacation application, then call them and look. Then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask your instructions now clear and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-22-m0.u180	I ask Adam Ivanovich to entrust the relevant services with the matter and to provide information to the national MPs so that we do not transfer the political aspects to the legal aspect, because there is a political dimension to this problem, but there is law. And I'm asking Adam Ivanovich with the Regulatory Committee to study this question. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Now we're going to start with a little late meeting of the Conciliation Council in the conference room. At 15 o'clock, parliamentary hearings. A committee meeting will also take place. Thanks for the job. See you tomorrow.
