ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:37]] It was registered in the 407 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich and Misura Vadim Jaroslavovich. Let us welcome our colleagues, and we wish them good health. [[Applause]] Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on September 22, 2005. 34 questions in the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 17 laws and 13 regulations were passed, two bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was designed to be drafted, and four bills and three draft regulations were rejected. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Neciporenka Volodymyr Pavlovich from the “One Ukraine” faction. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals to the people’s deputies, to make inquiries, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Colonyari, Simonov, Draga to the President of Ukraine for the exacerbation of interfaith conflicts in Ukraine and the actions of law enforcement agencies, local authorities regarding the religious communities of the village of Rokhmanov in Suma and the village of Wall of Butchik in the Ternopil region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:58]] For 172 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:21]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Left MIREM to the President of Ukraine on the facts of the corruption of the management of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Government regarding the illegal transfer of 6,000 hectares of coastal land to an unknown firm in the Sak district to carry out the investment project “Development of the West Coast of Crimea”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:00]] For 1052 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the pardon of those convicted of the so-called criminal case of “Odeski Komomolts”. [[POLITH, SAMOLYK, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:08:32]] For 190 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:55]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Who's to go back to this question of parliament? Please vote. [[10:09:23]] For 246 We're back. Who's in charge of sending a request to the President of Ukraine? Please vote. [[10:09:44]] For 248 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the elimination of Communist and totalitarian symbols in the session hall, premises, and buildings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the renewal of the tax benefit from the owners of transport equipment to vocational and technical schools. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the first deputy of the Biloczerk City Head on the state of preparation for winter housing on the street of the Fastovska City of the Bila Church. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the clarification of specific provisions of legislation on the provision of a single national accounting and identification of political parties, their district, city and district organizations or other structural entities. FIXA to the Prime Minister for the award of a grant to compensate for the loss of income from the reduction of the percentage of deductions on a single tax basis. Jurya KROWROČKA to the Prime Minister on the need for an announcement by an undesirable person in Ukraine from the Ambassador of the Russian Federation. Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the provision of transport equipment to the School of the Głbocke district of Cherniewec under the School Bus program. Mikoli COMARA to the Prime Minister on the issue of debt repayment from wages to employees of state-owned enterprises. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister for the award of subsidies to address the housing problem of the inhabitants of Poltava who were affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the educational institutions of the Heivoron district, Kyrovograd. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister regarding the Žitomir Regional Childhood Anti-Tuberculosis Sanatorium “The Forest Coast”. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of social objects in the village of Mikolayevka in the region of Chernigiv. FIXA to the Prime Minister for the financing of a project to protect Lake Saxony. Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the allocation of computer complexes to schools in the region of Czernovetsec, in the framework of a computerization program for educational institutions. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the provision of work disabled and a group of residents of the Lubar district of Žitomir by car with manual control and a wheelchair with electric power. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister for the provision of medicines for the victims of the disaster and the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Ms. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the problems of the villages of Žabotina, Zavadovka, Flarkovka of the Kamyan district of Cherkas region for the gasification of villages and the closure of the district hospital. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the renovation and restoration of the Lviv Museum I.Frank according to the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the birth of I.Frank. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister for the financing of disaster biases and the prevention of technological catastrophes in residential and other emergency facilities in Simferopol. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the unique wealth unit of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve “Samčki”. Mr. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister on the conditions for the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children and its requirements in the 2006 Draft State Budget. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister for the privatization of cultural heritage. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Prime Minister regarding the gravity of the appeal of the disabled of the Great Homeland War by the executive bodies of the Scottish City Council of the Hersonian Region on land relations. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister for the renewal of the work of the rural district hospital in the village of Nova Grebla Kalinov, Vinnitsky district. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister on the condition of eleven passengers. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for refusing to respond to a request for unknown poisons in the village of Arteliarchy of the Zinkov region of Poltava. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister on the additional allocation of funds to the local budgets of the cities of Eupatoria, Saka and the Sak district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to eliminate the risk of non-payment of salaries to budget workers in the fourth quarter of 2005. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Coal Industry, Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration for the violation of legislation by the management of the State Enterprise, the “Donetsk Coal Energy Company”, in particular the Director-General of Zechariah. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the critical situation that has taken place in the Torez Donetsk region’s No.3bis Checkout. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, COMAR]] Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister for the non-recovery of the funds allocated under the State Budget subsidy for the renovation of the houses of the village of Čkalov Novotroitsky region of the Hersonian region. Ms. Alexander KEMENYAS to the Prime Minister on the inadequate status of funding of sociocultural objects in the Zakarpatsky region. Vladimir MUHYNA and Dmitri RUDKOVSKOVO to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the involvement of those responsible for the violent takeover of the Sevjerodonet Association “Azot”. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister regarding the ignoring of the requirements of the Archaeological Heritage Act by the implementing authorities of Kharkiv. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister on the legislative regulation of food and goods markets in Ukraine. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Organised Crime and Corruption, on the appeal of the inhabitants of the Seventh Microregion of the Holy District of Kiev to the illegal construction of a company building on the street of Chaadeava and Žmerenska. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister regarding the non-admission of the destruction of the international children's institution of the “Golden Key” culture in the city of Eupatoria. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for non-payment of arrears on wages and regressive appeals to Mine No.71 “Industry” of the city of Rovinj. [[TURMANOV, COMAR, CORSACOV]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Board, the Attorney-General on the violation of the rule of law by the head of the Provincial District Administration, the employees of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Bar region, internal affairs, the State Executive Service and the Office of the Justice of the Vinnitsk Region on the obstacle to the exercise of constitutional rights to entrepreneurial activity. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the construction of a preschool children's institution in the village of Kalina Tachiv district of Zakarpat. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI AND HENADIA STATIONAL to the Attorney General regarding the situation surrounding LEMTRANS, the termination of the intervention of the State Railway Administration in the activities of the listed private enterprise. MICHAYLA DOBKINA to the Attorney General, who was responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the situation surrounding the state’s customs administration and, directly, Skomarowski, who had recently led it. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the DPA, the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in relation to the verification of tax evasion and the dissipation of State funds in a particularly large way by the private enterprise of Vladimir, the founder of which is ex-head of the State Customs Service of Komarovsky and the right of criminal proceedings against him. Aleksandra GOLUBA to the Attorney General on the violation of the Law on the Treatment of Citizens by the Ishmael District Attorney’s Office of the Odessa Region. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the implementation of the Open Shareholder Society Agrotechservis in the town of Krolevec Sumska District. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General for the impunity of the corruption of the Thrustian City Head of the Suma Region. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Justice, the Acting Minister of Health, the President of the Academy of Medical Sciences, on the course of investigation and on the conduct of appropriate expertise on the poisoning of the President of Ukraine. JAROSLA SUCHI AND MIKOLI COMARA to the Attorney-General on human rights violations and abuse of power by law enforcement authorities in the search of the Lux premises. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Interior for Road Traffic on the Simferopol-Moscow route in the village of Sofia, Simferopol district on 21 August 2005. MICHAEL MELNIKA to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the operations of the Tullczynki police. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is responsible for the use of members of the police and members of the internal forces by the commercial structure of the TV “Financial Advisory Centre for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship”, for the illegal provision of security services and for the purpose of not allowing VAT officials to their own office of representatives of the “Drobobic Dolom plant” in Kiev. Michael POLENCHICHI to the Attorney General about the illegal activity of the Apostolic City Head of the Dnipropetrov region. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General for the search and prosecution of a person guilty of kidnapping by car fraud. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the misconduct of the employees of the Office for Combating Organized Crime, the Office of Internal Affairs in the Donetsk Region, and prosecutors of the Lenin district of Donetsk. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Environmental Protection, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the violation of environmental legislation, the trust fund, and land relations. Ms Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Attorney General on the violation by the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Sevastopol of criminal and procedural legislation and laws on the status of deputies of local councils and on local self-government in Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens and the Act “On the Recruitment of Citizens” by officials of the Shevchenkov District Department of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev. [[PERSON, WORKER, ASKIRKO, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of propaganda by the Ministry of Education and Science in UN-UPA schools in Ukraine in the years of the Great Homeland War. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Attorney General of the Ministry of Education and Science for unlawful dismissal from the position of head of the Borodian Education Department. VADIM MISURA to the Attorney General for bringing to justice officials responsible for the violent capture of the premises of the Eksres Hotel Peter SIMONENKA and Vladimir LECHENKA to the Attorney General on the existence of political motives in the liberation from the work of the Black Forest Forestry Forest, the first secretary to the Paradise Company of Sokol. Ms Olexiyuka and Mr Mikhail Ratajny to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities and the inappropriate response to previous appeals concerning the unlawful actions of the forces of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, particularly those that took place on the Saric lighthouse. Omelana PARUBKA to the Attorney General for violating the constitutional rights of the head of the joint owners of property and land rations of the reorganized agricultural cooperative for the name of the Island Village of Ivanyka Mankow district of the Cherka region of Valentina Grabova. Mikoli NOSENKA to the Attorney-General for pressure and illegal actions by representatives of Ukrazlice for a group of closed-circuit companies “Ukraine’s Centre for Passenger Services on Ukrainian Rail Transport”. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the Protection of the Honor and Dignity of the citizen of Saul, against the misconduct of the Chief of the Stahanov City Police Department of the Luhansk Region. [[CHECK, BOY, ROB.]] Tamara Proscurating to the Attorney-General regarding the failure of the President of Ukraine to implement the Anti-Corruption Act on publication in the official publications of the public authorities of the declaration of their own income and income of their family members. Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of the laws of Kamjanopotokov by the village council of the Kremenču district of Poltav region concerning the transfer of land from state property to municipal property and their subsequent transfer to the Orelelitbud. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the abuse of the Suma County Pension Fund. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General for the lack of response by the Public Prosecutor to the violation of legislation discovered by the control and audit office of Kyiv in the verification of the activities of the Desert Guide holiday house. Mikhail DOBKINA to the Attorney General on handling the needs of the Ukrainian President-in-Office Victor Yushchenka as coworkers of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People’s Protection against the effects of the Chernobyl disaster and the misuse of budgetary resources. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for the review of the activities of the administration of the Cohesion Agricultural Technology Department of the Donetsk Region. Paul SILCHANA to the Attorney General on the violations of legislation and the rights of citizens to housing by the liquidator of the Open Shareholder Society “Bortnici Tribal Plant”. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney-General for the delay in investigating a criminal case violated by a traffic accident that resulted in the death of a minor. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney-General, acting as Minister of Justice in the matter of gravity, decided on the issue of the issue of a work book to a citizen of Kalinichenko, who was dismissed from his employment in the “Kalinovsk” district of Poltav. Viacheslava ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General about the theft of the city’s budget in the construction of a maternity home in Dniprodj yinsk. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the abuse of internal affairs officials and the Office of the Vinnitsky District Attorney by means of criminal inaction, for the avoidance of their duties. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General on the legal regulation of the development of the Lopushnian oil plant. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board on improper response to a parliamentary request and verification of the illegal privatization of the “Ternopil Things Market”. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Attorney General of the Ministry of Justice, the Head of the DPA on the violation of the laws of owners and the management of the Musketov steel mill. LEFT MIRIME to the Attorney-General on the facts of the corruption of the management of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Government regarding the illegal transfer of 6,000 hectares of coastal land in the Saqq region to carry out the investment project “Development of the West Coast of Crimea”. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for the collection of the debt from the T.O. “Molproduct” for the milk paid to the producers of the village of Michurin Bilogor in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Jury KARMAZINA and Vladimir SIVKOVICZA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Education and Science, acting as Minister of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, acting as Minister of Health, acting as Head of the State Committee for Construction and Architecture, Head of the Kiev District State Administration for the violation of valid laws and for the non-derogation of the conduct of the All-Ukrainian Spartakiad among students of vocational and technical educational institutions. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Attorney-General on the delay of Kyivo-Svetosinsk in the administration of orderly acts on the right of land ownership by members of the Irpin-II Gardening Society GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Attorney General on the groundlessness of the answer to a question about the possible suicide of the commander of Section 6 of a separate mechanized brigade, who was responsible for the task in Iraq, Senior Sergeant Hanserski. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney-General on the collective appeal of WAT employees and shareholders “Plem factory Christmas” and on the conduct of the audit of the financial and economic activities of the Society. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Attorney General on the conditions of granting exclusive rights to the insurance company “Princess Town” insurance in the DAI premises, MREVO and verification of the personal interest of the acting minister of internal affairs in the company’s activities. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General on the criminalization of the head of the Vinnick district government for unlawful dismissal of officials and opposition to the execution of judicial decisions. Mikhail VOLINZA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund for the Protection of the Rights of Shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association of the Mikolai Polish Agricultural Plant. Jaroslav KEDNZORA to the Attorney General for the verification of the Russian Federation Ambassador's involvement in destabilisation in the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney - General for Corruption in Appointing the Director of the Dniprostrian Department of the Interregional Academy of Staff Management of the former Swedish City Head, against whom a criminal case has been committed and leased under the Division of the Children’s Gardens Academy. Stanislav PCHIDENKA to serve as Minister of Transport and Liaison for the Improvement of Living Conditions for a Participant of the Great Homeland War, the Disabled and the Group, a veteran of the Lviv Railway. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the rights of citizens and the abuse of power by law enforcement authorities in the search of the Lux premises. Mr. Mikoli Komara to serve as Minister of Industrial Policy for failure to implement the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer the Autosklo and Tehbudsklo factories to the Ministry. Vassila BARTKIVA to serve as Minister of Education and Science for the provision of furniture for the Paulian School of Public Education in the district of Bilopil. JOURNEY SIRKA to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ Office in the Plain area of terms of reference for former employees of the Plains Department for the abuse of the company. Alexander RIMARUKA to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for an unsatisfactory response to a parliamentary request. Mr. Paul Silent, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Finance for the Financing of the National Historical and Architectural Reserve of the Kamyanec, and the preservation of the historic forgetfulness of the city of Gluhova. ANDRYA SCHOOL to perform the duties of the Minister of Justice to prohibit the activities of the political party “Ukraine National Assembly” in connection with its provocative and illegal activities. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Defence's responsibility for social tension among reserve officers who served in the military part of the garrison of “Kanatovo” city of Kyrovgrad. Mr. Stanislav PCHIDENKA is acting as Minister of Education and Science for the conditions for the continuation of the education of graduates, the bachelors of the Lutsky Educational and Advisory Economic Center of the Ternopil State Economic University. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Minister of Defence for Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Service of the Ministry of Defence to resolve the issue of the granting of martial law to a group of former juvenile prisoners of the Brovary concentration camp and a grave violation of the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Appeal. Leonida KADENUKA to the Minister of Justice’s duty to respond improperly to a request for nonexecution by the Executive Service of the decision of the District Court of Kiev. John TOMIĆA to perform the Ministry of Health’s duties in connection with a sharp reduction in the treatment base of the Yabluń district hospital in the region of Johno-Frankiv. Tamara Proscuratou to the Acting Minister of Health, head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration, for the repair of the maternity ward of the Uzhgorodska Central City Clinic. John BOKHO to the executive responsibility of the minister of the economy for the bankruptcy procedure of the Open Shareholder Society “The Orion Machine Factory. ” Anatolia GREZEVA to the executive responsibility of the minister of the interior for the improper investigation of accidents committed by a former employee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Alexander TKALENKA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science for the implementation of the State programs “School Bus” and “Computer Class” in the territory of the Novotroitsky region of the Hersonian region. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Health to verify the activities of the Chief Doctor of the Suma District Hospital. Alexander KEMENYA to the acting Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the situation at the “Tisa” border crossing with regard to the granting of travel permits for freight transport in the territory of a foreign State to carriers. VOJUŠA’s responsibility to the minister of employment and social policy for the removal of pedagogical workers working in rural areas. Alexander KUZMUKA is under the responsibilities of the Minister of Defense to violate the Minister of Defence’s legislation regarding the conduct of military service. Jury CARMAZINA and Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA are acting as Health Minister, acting as Head of State, Head of the Hersonian Government, Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region, for failure by officials of local authorities, executive authorities, and prosecutors of the city of Hersson and of the Hersson region to respond to the fact that people are living in an emergency building. JOHN VERNIDUPOVA to the Secretary of State for the publication of information on income, securities, immovable and valuable movable property and deposits in the banks of the President of Ukraine and members of his family who are subject to the annual publication of the official publications of the public authorities. Andria POLIETA to the Commissioner for Human Rights on the cessation of political repression in Ukraine and the pardon of convicted commodores. THE OBJECT Jury to the Kiev City Head on the illegal demolition of the playground and the construction of a high - altitude residential building, which is carried out at the expense of the green zone on the street of Zoe Hayday and Marshall Timoshenko in the Oblonsk region. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the head of the Wynnick district council regarding the violation of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine by the Right-wing Village Council of the Vinnitsky district. GOVERNMENT to the Head of the DPA on the illegal actions of officials of the State Tax Administration. VADIM MISSURE to the Head of the State Property Fund to provide information on the violent capture of the premises of the Hotel Express. VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district administration for the disrespectful treatment of the officials of the Winnick City Council for the consideration of the MP’s appeal to the 11th district of Anthemyuk. Jury RUCA to the Head of the State Judicial Administration for the reform of the judicial system. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Head of the Cherka District State Administration for the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the village of Sinyokovka of the Zolotani district of Cherkas region in the use of the local river. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Board, the Attorney-General on official confirmation or correction of the conduct of the envisaged expertise necessary to establish the poisoning of the President of Ukraine. Oleg PETROVA to Head of HeadCRO on the legality of the activities of the director of the Leisure House during the repairs. John BASTRIGA to the Head of the DPA on the legality of the actions of the Bergian Interstate Tax Administration. TO THE head of the Kyiv City State Administration for ignoring the rights of residents of the house on Balzak Street to housing and rest, as well as the illegal construction of the surrounding area. Anatoly of the Domansian to the Head of the Žitomir District Administration on the gasification of the residence of the disabled of the Great Homeland War resident of the village of Johnopil of the Ovruč Region Larissa VAZANKO to the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the legality of the actions of the employee of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Vinicki district of Major Vishnowski. Tamara PROSKURATO the Attorney General for ignoring the standards of effective legislation and for exceeding the official powers of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Lucenka in assigning the officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for a term period of time. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA, Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General on the provision of information on the official results of the investigation of the allegations of corruption of the first assistant president of Ukraine, Mr. Tretlyakov, Secretary of the RNBO Prashenka, and Head of the "Our Ukraine" Martinenka faction. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the real threat to life and health of thousands of diabetics in connection with the criminal release of the Indar factory, 13,000 vials of insulin produced from the prescribed medications have passed, in the absence of permission to carry out the preclinical examinations of these vital medical devices. Vladimir WYUSHA, Vladimir MAZURENKA, Executive Director of the Bistric International Rebirth Fund, on the provision of official information on the scope of funding for health projects by the International Refreshing Fund, which is part of the American businessman Soros Foundation. Thus, the honourable national MPs were asked 141 MPs. According to factions: “Our Ukraine” - 16, Communists - 27, “Ukraine’s Regions” - 16, SDPU (o) - 20, “Ukrainian One” - 4, “Ukraine’s People’s Movement – 5, People’s Party – 6, Socparty – 8, Block Timoshenko – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, Ukrainian People’s Party – 7, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 8, “Reforms and Orders” - 3, NDP and “Urban” - 6, non-fractional - 5. In accordance with the Rules, I inform you of the election of Andrew School to the authorized BUT faction. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the performances. We're taking 30 minutes to do this. On board, please, the names of the deputies who signed up for the speech. The word is given by Bogdan Kostinuk, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u2	National movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. On the occasion of the discovery of the monument by Viacheslav Chronovolo in the city of Ivano-Frankiv, a statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement. On September 25, Sunday, a monument to the head of Ukraine’s national movement, the hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Cnervol, will be held in the city of Ivano-Frankiv. The life course of Viacheslav Cnervol is an example of infinite patriotism. Sacrificing service to the interests of the Ukrainian people and love for their native Ukraine Throughout his life, Vjačeslav Maksimović has penetrated the slogan: “Ukraine is above all else!” and has made the greatest effort to get Ukraine back so wanted and entangled with the blood of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians of independence. The memory of the leader of the National Movement of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola, lives in the heart of every movement, every Ukrainian patriot, all who care about the fate of Ukraine. The discovery of the monument of Viacheslav Crnovol, at which funds were raised by the forces of the community of John-Frankow region, is another confirmation that the Ukrainians remember and honor this magnificent figure. We are convinced and will make every effort to have the monuments of Viacheslav Cnervol opened in every district center of our nation, for it has become the brightest piece of the modern history of Ukraine. The monuments of Hera of Ukraine, Viacheslav of Chernobyl, should remind every Ukrainian of those national heroes without which there is no independent Ukraine, they must keep in mind all the victims of the former regime, already in an independent Ukraine. On May 12, 2005, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, made a decision by which until December 24, this year, 68 years after the birth of Viacheslav Crnovola, was entrusted with establishing a monument to Crnovola in Kiev. The establishment of a monument to Chernobyl in the capital city of Ukraine will be worthy of its credit to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. We are confident that the orders of the President of Ukraine will be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Kyiv City State Administration on time, which will be the best gift of his bright memory and of all Ukrainian patriots. The memory of Viacheslav Crnovola will not die or die. Glory be to Viacheslav Cnervol! Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u3	Mikola Komar is handing over the right to speak to Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the "Region of Ukraine". prepare Alexia Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the various political forces have different ways of signing a memorandum of understanding between power and opposition. In this regard, I want to say the following. You remember what a critical political situation has been, a socio-economic one. And those dear friends, the unique boys and girls he used to call "Jushchenka" first laid the foot of his president, he almost fell and then wanted to lay his shoulders. It was only after this that Yushchenko realized that he needed to turn to the opposition and find support. This is the policy of our leader Janukovic, who said from the beginning that we were ready to help build a state, but it took the President to go through it. So I want to say that signing a memorandum means, first, that the President finally admitted that there were political repressions against the opposition in Ukraine and made a commitment not to allow them. It's different. Having signed a memorandum and signed with our leader, Viktor Yanukovic, the President acknowledged that the biggest opposition force in Ukraine is the Ukraine Party, which cannot be counted against. Third. Having signed a memorandum, the President admitted that there could be no solution to any of the issues: economic, social, political, state, civil society, without the opinion of the opposition, and that was very positive. He wants to tell our opposition colleagues and especially our brothers in a joint struggle of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Dear friends, as recorded in the memorandum, it is in the interests of all opposition. This is the result of our common struggle. Because it says that there will be no more political repression, that there will be fair transparent elections, that when the government is appointed, they will be counted with the view of opposition. In principle, we have given the opportunity to form a government and work. But I want to tell our opponents that this is not an orange-blue coalition in Parliament today. Let me put it straight: no, it's not a coalition, and that's an understanding. We remain a party of opposition, we remain a faction of opposition, but we have allowed the government to work normally. If one point of the memorandum is not fulfilled, and our leader Viktor Yanukovic has stated it, we will simply withdraw our signature. But we hope for understanding. At last, the political system will come and the citizens will benefit only from it and the economy will work normally, the political situation will be normal and there will be high social protection. That's why we took this step.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u5	Alexei Malinowski is handing over the right to speak to Alexander Frost, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u6	The faction assigned me to make this statement. The sad years since the death of journalist Gongadze were little noticeable on the backdrop of political conflicts. As a result, even the report of the High Council investigating committee in the Gongadze case did not receive a proper extension. The report was not as important in principle as it was from a political point of view, since in order to bring the matter to a close before a court of law. The Supreme Council should help to ensure that Georgia’s non-membered murder case receives a judicial evaluation of parliamentary elections in order to stop further political speculation on the subject. The Parliament's ruling on the commission's report does not contain any requirements for law enforcement authorities, but the Attorney General's Office has long been familiar with the materials, the findings of the commission of inquiry, which are quite sufficient for the trial to begin. However, there is no trial. Paradox: Most parliaments consider the work of the commission to be successful, the essence of the crime is known to all society, and law enforcement agencies are not in a hurry to bring the case to trial. And that's because the Gongadze case is both in Ukraine and in Europe, and in the world, it's a litmus paper to characterize the state of democracy and justice in Ukraine. During the recent political conflict, law enforcement officials have repeatedly and unofficially claimed pressure from various high - level officials to intervene in the investigation. This gives good reason to believe that the completion of the investigation of the most violent criminal cases is hindered by individuals with their own private and corporate interests. In addition, there has been a number of resonant criminal cases in Ukraine that can be reached with similar conclusions to prove that the investigation is involved. The problem of illegal interference with justice has become so acute both in criminal and domestic matters that we invite parliament to decide as soon as possible on the report of the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the heads of the tax administration and the customs service. We need to find out openly for ourselves. For the Ukrainian society, which prevents the rule of law in the state, which must first be decided by parliament, so that the resonant crimes are qualified first in court, not in a press conference. The law enforcement report will be a practical influence of the Supreme Council on strengthening the rule of law in Ukraine, on increasing confidence in the law enforcement system. The lack of such confidence in society has created the basis for political conflict. We have prepared a draft ruling on this matter for consideration by Parliament. We suggest that we do this immediately, literally in the next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u7	The Deputy Deputies of Gleuchowski conveys the right to speech to Jaroslav Kendzior. Please prepare Vitalia Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u8	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! What has happened recently in Ukraine is, of course, a lesson for everyone, beginning with the President, ending with the members of the government, the President's team, the people's deputies, finally a lesson for the entire Ukrainian society. I've said this a number of times in different audiences about what we've been through lately. It would not be a good idea if after the newly formed government led by Prime Minister Yehanur is working for a while so that we do not make the same mistakes again as we did in the first, in the form of a previous government. Because it was hard to hear and it wasn't possible to understand why a positive assessment was given, an excellent assessment of the then government -- and literally a disgraceful resignation on August 8. Why is the head of the Security Service of the Republic of Turkey then announcing the speeding smuggler, and a month and a half ago he rewards Skomarowski with a high mark of the BAF for his great success in the fight against smuggling. That is, it would not be desirable for similar errors to arise in the new government. And that would be a warning to both the President and today's Prime Minister. Morals are that there is always a need for honest, honest information and appreciation of the activities of an official or a team. I would like to respond to these very victorious reactions of opposition in connection with the signing of a memorandum that said there would be no more political repression and they were. Every honest citizen knows that indeed, there will be no political repression in Ukraine. And if anyone expects criminal authorities to be subjected to political persecution, I think it's useless, because the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, no one has changed. And I'm again today giving specific examples where in Lviv, criminal authorities, former esdeks or present-day esdeks of Kozak, Salo, Hamak and Sergey Medvedchuk are still out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u9	Vitaly Majko, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, is invited to speak. You don't? Victor Petrov, the Communist faction, please. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u10	Victor Petrov, Communist faction, Vinni district. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. September 9th of this year in the village of Diribcin. The area of the Winnitsk district was marked by an extraordinary event. Police officers from the State Security Service unit beat up the elderly, the women and the children who tried to disrupt the illegal dismantling of the local sugar plant’s train tracks. The Office of the Attorney General's response to my request from the MP on July 6 contains information on the illegality of selling these tracks. The District Attorney's Office has been charged with a contract of sale in a commercial court. In addition, the District Attorney’s Office’s decision to refuse a criminal case has been annulled. Nevertheless, the district attorney’s office did not take any measures of prosecutorial and investigative action to prevent the destruction of the railway, which enabled the current owner to continue dismantling and to speed up the theft. The evidence of violence has been documented by numerous testimonies and photographs. The law enforcement officer looks strange in black shape, with his sleeves attached and a shepherd who uses a rubber oak to drive women and children away. Tear gas bubbles were also used. Older people claim to have seen it the last time they saw it during the German-Fashistic occupation. And no contract with law enforcement owners and orders from above can be justified. In addition, residents of the village presented police officers with an answer to the Attorney General and the district attorney’s office about the illegality of the acquisition of railways. From the militia, people heard the words of repentance. They said that criminal criminal groups had previously been exposed, and now they are forced to use force against peasants who have worked their entire lives in a sugar factory. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, despite your constant claims that the police and the people have to say that during your tenure as minister, the police are increasingly becoming a penal body that does not protect people but helps so-called effective owners to destroy businesses. Before that, on Winnitzkin, a police force has never beaten. I ask the Attorney General of Ukraine and the acting Minister of the Interior of Ukraine to evaluate the actions and to bring to justice police officers who have committed the beatings of people in the village of Debetina. Take immediate steps to preserve the whole of the sugar plant’s property complex. Prime Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich asks on behalf of all laborers. To save the last one in the area, an enterprise that provided sweet produce in the past year. These are jobs and peasants. Resume the work of the Derebechin sugar plant next season. I'd like to ask the President how these militia actions are consistent with your allegations of no reprisals, that there will be no bloodshed. Instead of creating jobs, and you were talking about five million jobs, the whole sugar industry is destroyed on Winniek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u11	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Please give me your word. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u12	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In Kirovgrad, it was already pointed, as they say, to the pen. It's not just an economic downturn, it's a moral downturn. In the Malovsky region, there was a frenzy. The new authorities, with the support of the Reich administration, are presumptuously demonstrating their predatory innermost. Instead of extracting the region’s economy, medicine, and education from it, officials at night dismantle the monuments of Volodymira Ilchi Lenin. After the arrival of the oranges, it seems that the country was taken hostage by terrorists and the Ukrainian people became a hostage: not a day, so all new events. Shamelessly, in the eyes of the entire nation, a predatory scenario of destruction is being implemented, both in the state and in its history. And it is destroyed by those who are to make and enrich history, those who are to teach a new generation to appreciate their history, their people. In what words the director of Malovsky boarding school can explain to his educators the disappearance in one night of Lenin’s memorial in the courtyard of the school where the children were so valued, since their parents were admitted to the Octobers and pioneers. In the morning, school children were shocked to see a mutilated monument near the boiler room. The school boy made it clear that the bandits did it because all the black things they did only in the night. That's what happened. Again, on the night of September 19 - 20, Lenin’s monument was a second attempt to dismantle in the sugar plant, but the Communists and the inhabitants of the wall stood near the monument and prevented the bandits from doing their black work. For this reason, Communists and veterans of the region appealed to the Head of the “faithful socialist, ” in paws, Nebogi, but instead of stopping in the area of lawlessness, he fled to the weeds, which he had just happened to develop in the area. That's not surprising, because it's a socialist habit to lie cynically and then run away from responsibility. The district’s Communists and districts address the minister of the interior of Lucenka and demand that official written clarifications be made regarding the dismantling of Lenin’s monuments in the territory of the Malovski district of Kirovograd and what measures will be taken not only in Kirovgrad, but also in Ukraine to prevent the abuse of the historical past by officials of educational institutions and the regime and to force criminals to place Volodymyr Illír Lenin’s monument in the courtyard of the boarding school. And I'm asking you to count as the MP's request to the minister of the interior of Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u13	Alexander Masenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u14	Dear radio listeners! Dear voters! Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome all the inhabitants of Poltava and Poltava to the 62nd anniversary of the liberation of the area from German-Fashistic invaders. I wish all the Polacks happiness, good and well-being and as the fastest deliverance from the "morning plague", and I give the word to my colleague Andrew Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u15	Andrew Polit, please. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u16	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On Saturday, 24 September, the All-Ukrainian Youth Action “Anticapitalism 2005” will be held in Kiev by left-wing youth organizations at the initiative of the Lenin Komsomol Ukraine. The action will take place under slogans: “The other world is possible”, “The present revolution ahead!”, “Ukraine is not a commodity”, “Freedom of the left political prisoners”. The start of the 13-hour event, from the Arsenal Metro Station, after the end of the march on the Contract Square, will be a concert of youth musical groups. We believe that in today's world, capitalism does not reflect the interests of young people in every sphere of life, on the contrary, it creates a system that destroys tomorrow's prospects. Therefore, we declare another world possible and the building of this world today depends directly on the civilian position that young people will take in protecting their future. One of the main areas of action will be the protest against turning our world into a cheap commodity that places large capitalist countries on the market, headed by the U.S. barbaric imperialism citadel, in order to monopolize control of the human and natural resources of an independent country. We are protesting the United States' aggressive, captivating actions taken in the occupation of peaceful countries with a view to acquiring foreign oil resources. We are in solidarity with countries bravely fighting for freedom from external intervention, supporting the peoples of Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea, Viet Nam and China, and we declare that aggression will not take place! There are no empires in today's world! We are opposed to the persecutions and reprisals imposed by the regime on dissident young people who have become members of left-wing youth organizations. That is why today we will remember Odessa political prisoners, members of the Lenin Komsomol, who were not afraid to fight against the capitalist system, no political repression! We will take all legal measures to ensure that our heroes are free, and the memory of the bourgeois-police inquisition of Commodore Sergey Berdugin is a symbol of the struggle for a decent life. Today, we say to young people: “The only thing that capitalism cannot take from you is the opportunity to fight for its rights and defend its interests.” The Anti-Pittalism 2005 campaign will bring together, under its banners, a progressive youth in Ukraine who no longer want to tolerate the anti-national capitalist course of the current government. The Lenin Commodore of Ukraine calls upon all those who are not indifferent to our future, who want to be sure of tomorrow's active participation in the all-Ukrainian anti-capitalism action 2005. We will unite in the fight for a worthy future. Capitalism is not!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u17	Mikola Shershun, National Party faction, is invited to prepare Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u18	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian People’s Party Dear Head, dear colleagues. The topic of the new rules on prescriptions and dispensation of medical devices has already been discussed in these walls. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health and its supervisor did not respond to the warnings of MPs and pharmacologists. At the same time, it is clear today that if Mr. Polishchuk’s order came into effect from October 20, Ukraine, another medical problem would be artificially made. Doctors and pharmacists also assure us that the new formula is not physically sufficient and will not be sufficient. Today, doctors in cities have often written a prescription on plain paper and stamped it. What about being a villager? On the other hand, the village is better equipped with feldshers who cannot have their own medical seals. So since October 20, the peasant will stop taking drugs? The same is true of those who call for an ambulance, for it is not a secret that the feldshers usually work there. The need for the minister of health to place a corner stamp on prescriptions is disrupted by private medical practice. A private physician can’t have that kind of press in principle and there’s a lot of it on the order. It seems that senior medical officials are completely cut off from what is happening in the field. Because if you were interested in the thinking of the people who work in this area, you would never see the world under number 360. The minister is arguing that people will stop taking self - care. But responsible self-medication is a normal process, because it foresees self-help and self-prevention. It seems that the Ministry of Health is deliberately trying to create and control another form of shadow business and smuggling. Because where the State ceases to provide services, clever works take place. And no one will then be able to control the quantity or quality of the left medicine. For the unclean, doctors will have a new source of income — the sale of prescriptions. The Minister of Health’s loud statements on this order resembled a cost - of - medicine situation, and then they promised to cut the cost of drugs, but they had to travel almost double. Now they promise control, and it will go out of control. It will not save the situation and yesterday’s list of drugs that will be implemented without prescriptions. I haven't answered the question and the press conference of the First Deputy Minister. I feel that it is necessary for the Ministry of Health to scrutinize the directive, including practitioners. In general, it is a warning that each of the seemingly progressive decisions of the country’s chief physician is causing a wave of indignation among both the medical community and among the citizens. That was the case with the family doctors. It looks like it's going to happen now. So I suggest that the new head of government take a close look at Mr. Polishchuk’s professional qualities as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u19	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. Prepare Levy Lukyanenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine found itself in a deep financial pit. This led to a wrong decision by the Supreme Council regarding the lower level of pension insurance in 332 bracelets per month. It applies to all: those who have paid contributions to the pension fund and those who have not paid them in their employment. The last of these include pensioners. All of them received the land pails. Thus, it would seem that a very humane action would infuse the joy of those who, both from heaven and the pride of the state that did so. But you can't do the impossible, you can't do the social adventures without the money. In particular, 7 million rural pensioners receive an additional $2 billion a month. It started this April of the year, the first of April -- 2 billion, the first of May -- four billion, the first of June -- already six billion. These costs are increasing, and the result of their accumulation will show itself in the near future, as it takes 24 billion in a year. In general, an increase in pension costs an additional 30 billion dollars. Money in a year. This is the main financial pit that we have driven ourselves into. And we have to acknowledge and correct the mistake. This was what the government of Julia Timoshenko tried to do. The government had hoped to receive additional funds from privatization, but instead of eight billion so far, it had received 700 million dollars. The government wants to release securities for seven billion dollars, borrow loans to provide pensioners with a promised pension. But their implementation is also questionable. In addition, seven billion will be at least one and a half billion percent. The state is getting deeper and deeper into financial collapse. Dragon tax measures on production were adopted, resulting in an incredible fall in gross domestic product and gross added value. A new government faces this challenge. So we must admit that we have taken an unreasonable step. We have to apologize to society, we, in the first place, are a party of regions that created a 25 billion-dollar hole. The bracelet, and the Party of Our Ukraine, which has increased it by another eight billion. A broad explanation work is to be carried out. The people of Ukraine are a wise nation, and he will understand that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u21	Igor Klitchenko, faction of "Ukraine". Lilia Grigorovitch, please. George Manchulenko, please, Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u22	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head, dear colleagues! I'm very concerned about the situation, which is that we're dealing with some of the areas of Ukraine, namely, the allocation of subsidies for investment projects and the prejudice of technological catastrophes in the areas, as well as the gasification of rural areas. On April 14, as a member of the 1 - mandating constituency, number 203 agreed on a subsidy for investment projects and the prejudices of technological catastrophes. So far, unfortunately, although I have repeatedly addressed the Cabinet of Ministers with a request on July 6th, only July 20 was the appropriate decision taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. But, unfortunately, there is no real funding to date. It's the end of the year, there's three months left, when, you know, if the money goes out now, this money is going to be spent. The same is true of the problem of financing rural areas. The corresponding list of objects in the 203 constituency was agreed on April 21st. The month is now ending in September -- unfortunately, so far there is no proper funding for the gasification of rural areas from the State Budget. I know that the same real and similar painting applies to other areas and other one-mandom constituencies. So where did the money that was budgeted here in Parliament confirm the corresponding figures for these two types of subsidies? They're in the State Budget Act 2005. Why don't people get them in places? I am now requesting the new Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, to deal with the problem that has arisen with the allocation of subsidies to implement investment projects and to finance the gasification of rural areas. Because our people are looking forward to this money. We know what the gasification situation in the country is, we know what the situation with subsidies for investment projects, to prejudice technological catastrophes, to eliminate those problems that are in housing and utilities. And to deal with this state of affairs today, we are like MPs and the new Cabinet of Ministers have no moral right. I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine as a matter of urgency to address this situation immediately and to take the necessary steps to ensure that these funds enter the region of Ukraine in the near future, including the 203 constituency I represent in the region of Chernobyl. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u23	Yes, Leveko Lukyanenko, please, the last speaker. Turn on the microphone, please. Leukka Lukyanka’s microphone, please. I understand that you're passing on the right to speak, well, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u24	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u25	The field.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you, Mr. Lion. Dear friends, Victor Terrence, Fatherland Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, President Yushchenko and Janukovic signed a so - called memorandum of understanding. This memorandum provides for the removal of criminal responsibility from Kiwalov and from all those who faked the election. And now the public officials who are to blame for their crimes will not be held accountable. However, accept that the axiom of justice is the inviolability of punishment, and any trade and guarantee of impunity for criminals is immoral. And such a trade only corrupts criminals who feel unpunished. Understanding between different political forces should be sought, but understanding with criminals should not be sought. Thus, violators of the electoral law, whose fault was the third round of elections, can be at peace, even though the state lost hundreds of millions. The electoral commissions will again be returned to those who compromised themselves by their participation in counterfeiting and because of the confidence of violators in impunity for their own illegal actions, there can be no question of the next fair parliamentary elections. And so when Victor Andriyovich says he's guaranteeing an honest election, the question is, how is he going to do it? I will also remind you of the PARJA resolution, which points out to Ukraine the importance of drawing on the responsibility of those who staged the falsification of presidential elections. Victor Andryovich claims that it should start with a clean letter, but only new crimes will start with a clean letter. In addition, a court, not the President, should determine the guilt of suspects. This is total disregard of the right. It's not even pressuring the court anymore, it's completely ignoring the court. For the voices of Yehanurov's support is now forgiven, my friends. And the beating of the students in Rome, and the burning of the urns and the beatings of the national MPs in Mukachev and near the CBC, and the insolence of the bandits at the University of Suma, and thousands of tons of dirty printed produce with slanders on Yashchenka. And remember the murdered militiaman who protected the urns with the ballots, mention the clean records with the seals and signatures. Please remember all the dirt we've been through with you, and now everything's sorry. And she will return to Ukraine with her "cranberries", that one from Israel, that one from Moscow, will return to Bodelan, Ahmedov, Bakai, Sherban. And the President will extend his hand of peace to all, and his hand will not be lifted in the air. Because it's all from a clean slate. And everything will be forgiven. And in general, dear friends thought that there would be a real fight against criminals and rushed to commit self - justice. They did it for nothing. They would now return to the government and be ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we're out of time. I ask the secretariat to analyse the speeches of the National Deputies, prepare, if necessary, assignments appropriate and requests for questions that have been violated in the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is under review: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reports on the state of affairs in the APC. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Information is provided by the Acting Minister of Agrarian Politics, Alexander Baranowski. For information, within 25 minutes. The answers to your questions are up to 10 minutes. From the committee to five minutes. And then for 15 minutes, taking into account the importance of this issue, allowing the people's deputies to speak. Is there no objection? Please, Igor Shurma, with a motive. Igor Shurma's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have just received information from the Cherkas region of the Chigirin district. The whole point is that containers containing dangerous substances that were imported into the area in February 2005 are now illegally buried in the area. There's a landslide, we're on the verge of an environmental disaster. I very much ask that the relevant ministries and services carry out a thorough survey of the area and determine who is responsible for the fact that dangerous substances containers are buried in the area. And I would like to ask you, if that's possible, a similar situation with the Gudrons to translate the testing of the force structures. The environmental catastrophe today is a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u29	I'm asking the secretariat to prepare appropriate references to the central executive authorities so that we can have the information we just received tested. Dear colleagues! The word has the acting minister of agrarian politics of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The situation in the Ukrainian village is complex and, unfortunately, the situation continues to deteriorate. Despite the fact that the agro-industrial complex worked in general during the 8 months of this year. So the volume of gross agricultural production of all forms of property in January-August this year increased by 2.2 percent. Industrial production has increased by 14 percent. The production of the vast majority of foods in the food industry has increased. Not so long ago or not, the biggest complaint was the work of the fish farm. We've had to shift the leadership of Ukdrjrybgospó, make structural changes in the field, and today we have another situation. In eight months, fish and seafood production increased by 21 percent and canned production by 40 percent. The external trade round of agricultural production in Ukraine was 4.4 billion dollars in 8 months, or 9.7 percent of the country's external trade. Exports have increased by 16.5 percent, I'd say catastrophically, due to the smooth opening of borders, by 32.5 percent, imports have increased. The external trade surplus is $901 million, when there are more than 100 million in Ukraine as a whole. The gross harvest of grain in the balance is expected to be within 39.5 million tons, exceeding the average in recent years by 2 million tons. The course taken in recent years, wrong at the time of small production, animal production, not only did it not justify itself but it also resulted in disastrous consequences. For 14 years, in all categories of cattle farming, cattle have been reduced by 3.5 times, pigs by 3 times, sheep and goats by 4.5 times, and birds by 1.6 times. As a result, livestock and poultry production declined almost threefold, milk production of 1.8 - percent eggs decreased by 27 percent, and wool fell nine times. The situation in animal production is caused by the loss of most types of produce. In just the last five years, between 2002 and 2004, five billion losses have been incurred in agricultural production. In 2004, the yield for meat, cattle, was minus 33 percent, pigs minus 14, sheep and goats minus 44 percent. Milk minus 0.4, wool minus 75. In 2004, only 686 million companies produced a third of their production. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In view of this state of affairs, Minagropolitics have undertaken a number of measures: an inventory of 207 semicontaminated animal complexes has been carried out, 118 of which have been carried out with reconstruction and the filling of the soil. Construction of new pig complexes has been started in Danish technologies, such as Kiev, Ivano-Frankiv, Dnipropetrovski, Odessa and other areas. The first line of action is now in effect. By the end of this year, the pig’s head will have grown by one million heads, a large cattle of 500,000, sheep and goats of 230 thousand, and birds of 43 million. For the first time in years of independence, the production of meat exceeds its implementation. A project of a national programme to create an enabling environment for the stability and development of animal production has been developed. I will point out that the project has already been reviewed five times at a government meeting and found no support because of the biased position of the Ministry of Finance and Mine Economics. The programme is provided for almost twice by 2010 – of 2.4 million. Tons to 4.7 increase the production of live meat. From 13.8 million to 20 million. Tons of milk, up to 14 billion. It's an egg thing. The number of cattle will increase from seven to 10 million, pigs from 6.5 to 15 million, birds from 153 million to 183 million. But these figures will become real under substantial budget support. I would like to note that we spend five billion dollars a year on meat imports, that is, we finance a foreign economy. It should be borne in mind that the animal industry in developed countries has considerable support. In Germany, 200 euros per head per year for a meat cow, 19 for a pig, 20 for a sheep, 50 for a horse. In 2005, the Eurocommission for Exporters granted peak oil subsidies of 1,385 euros per tonne, solid cheese of 900 euros per tonne, dry skimmed milk of 200. 310, sorry, euro per tonne. Taking into account what has been said and in order to support the level of plentiful demand of domestic consumers for animal production and to prevent the loss of production by producers, we urge you, honourable national deputies, to support us with a minimum of 3-7 billion dollars in 2006 on the basis of the law on State support for agriculture in Ukraine. Without this support, we can't compete with our neighbors, they'll virtually destroy our production. According to the Minagropolitics, the need for budget costs for all produced products to prevent damage should be at least 6.3 billion. For animal selection, we ask that 569 million dollars be allocated, as provided for by the law on a national selection programme, which will allow for the increase in the number of livestock, tribal livestock, and the problem of insemination of livestock in the population’s farms by sperm production of high genetic quality. Despite some positive developments, the agricultural sector of the economy is clearly heading into the abyss. This is especially true of the situation in the market for agricultural production. Today’s grain year began in extremely difficult conditions. The heads of the districts have not yet been appointed, and they're three weeks late for spring-field jobs. However, efforts have been made to introduce intensive technologies for the cultivation of agriculture, and the country is now provided with food grain. More than 20 million tons of wheat, 9.9 tons of barley, is expected to receive 7 million tons of corn, about 4.8 million tons of sunflower, over 600,000 crops. In general, more than 39 million grains will be produced. This is a slightly lower level last year, which was considered extremely fertile, but 2 million more than the average over the last four years. Last year there was a lot of scandals over the adjectives of grain in the population. Now we have a more real picture, because the private sector, which actually sometimes sins against the truth, is 1.3 million tons less than it was last year. So 1.3 reform, and we're going to go to the last level. You don't have to do that, of course. Under the 2006 crop, it is projected to sow 7.6 million acres [7.6 million ha] in winter. On September 23, 3.2 million hectares were sown, accounting for 42%. Sowed 387 thousand rapes, three times as much as this year's. Overall, the rate of sowing is 2 million acres [2 million ha] from last year’s. This is due to a number of reasons: In the first years of many years, grain production has become harmful. There's a business in the village today that's trying to be self-sufficient. And if the production of grain for a privateer is a waste, it's just not going to produce it. In addition, the situation is compounded by extremely unfavourable weather conditions for the sowing of winter crops. According to Hydrometer, the area with insufficient soil moisture is 50%. As a result of these factors, there is a threat of a significant shortage of grains and possible movement, as in the spring of 2006. According to previous estimates, the production cost per hectare of wheat seed in 2005 will be 1,608 dollars per 222 bracelets. The expected cost of grain crops in year 5 will be 522 bracelets, while in 2004, it was 377 bracelets per tonne. A fraction of the fuel in the self - worth structure has almost doubled. If last year the cost of oil products was 16%, in 2005 it exceeded 28%. At the prices of September 1st this year, the costs of sowing the winter crops next year will be higher than in 2004 on average by 450-500 dollars per hectare. In 2004, farmers spent 2.6 billion dollars on fuel, more than 5 billion today. So just to compensate for the increase in the cost of diesel, more than 2.4 billion dollars will be spent per year, when all the support of the producers is foreseen by the Ukrainian State budget for this year, is only 1.7 billion. The cost structure will increase depreciations due to the complete weariness of the technicians, and other services of foreign organizations have increased. In addition, the wages of the village’s workers require a substantial increase, since today we have only 373 bracelets. If 500 kilograms [500 kg] of diesel fuel were available for a tonne of wheat in 2000, it is now only 157, or 3.2 less; the ammonia saltpeter of 2 tons here is only 647, or 3.1 times less. To buy an MTZ-82 tractor five years ago, it took 65 tons of wheat, now 134. According to the State Department, prices for grain in January-July 2005 have dropped by 188 dollars per tonne or 44 percent compared to the previous year and are 432 bracelets. The average prices for the implementation of the internal market for the beginning of September this year ranged from 350 dollars per tonne to 580 dollars per class. This situation has led to the damage to grain production, which has always been highly cost - efficient and has brought the producers the necessary cash revenues for extended reproduction. This year alone, crops will increase to 54 percent compared to 34 percent last year. In this situation, it is virtually impossible to offset the costs of producers by increasing grain prices. The main reason is that Ukraine is a potential producer of grains, and the prices of the internal market depend entirely on prices in the world market. As a result, Ukraine has developed a custom for other countries to have conjuncture in the grain market. First. Increase in demand for Ukrainian grain in the world market. Significant quantities of supply that exceed domestic demand are due to a sharp decline in the number of animals in recent years, as well as the need for feed. Third. There is a powerful infrastructure to ensure the export of grain. Black Sea ports grew from 6 million a year to fifteen. An average of 10-12 million tons of grain exports per year in 68 countries around the world believe that for Ukraine it is the most liquid product in the market, and that its production is an important factor in stabilizing the economy of the APC. At the same time, the price situation in the world grain market in recent years is quite stable, from $110 to $130 per tonne. In doing so, it should be noted that grain producers in the world’s leading countries receive substantial subsidies from the State for exporting products. Accordingly, the stability and further development of cereals depends on the effective and targeted support of the state. This confirms the experience of past years. Because of the unfavourable conditions of 2002-2003, there was a significant reduction in the amount of food grain harvesting that was received in 2003, only five million, four and a half times less than in 2002. Taking into account the real threat to food security, the Cabinet of Ministers has allocated 360 million dollars to agricultural producers to partially offset the cost of crops. In 2004, another 50 million dollars were allocated for high-wheat crops and 300 million for other crops. These funds were used for the acquisition of material and technical resources, which enabled the production of 41.8 million tons in 2004 and the foundation for the future. To sum up, once again, the expected damage is not because in many farms farmers refuse to sow osmium, the situation needs to be resolved immediately, otherwise Ukraine with its rich black lands, hardworking people will have to import grain. In view of the above, we consider it necessary and ask you, honourable deputies, to support the peasants in the following: to urgently address the issue of the allocation of additional funds of 900 million dollars from the State budget for 2005 for the creation of a reserve by the Agrarian Fund of 1 million tons of food grain and 180,000 tons of sugar, as stipulated by the Law on State Support for Agriculture. In this regard, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to review and support the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8102. In the world, the system of state support for farmers has long been in operation through subsidies to hectares of grill, as well as a system of subsidies per unit of production. In the European Union, farmers receive between 270 and 350 euros of support per hectare of roller coasters, and in France 19 million hectares [19 billion ha] of support for peasants. This state support, in part, compensates for the cost of future crops. Our peasants, on the other hand, have to compete in the world market with them, compensating their own production only for the further impoverishment of families, the laundering of circulation costs, and the impossibility of expanding production. So we ask the Supreme Council, in its 2006 State Budget, to anticipate the cost of seedlings of autumn crops at least 200 dollars per hectare and ditches, 150 dollars per hectare. The total budget allocation for the target amounts to 1.9 billion dollars. In Europe, as I said, this sum is 270 euros. We do. Just 200 bucks. We are convinced that the immediate adoption of these political decisions will help relieve the tension in the rural area, which is rapidly increasing and ensuring the necessary level of food security of the state for the future. This is the fourth year that the whole society has been focusing on the sugar theme. In fact, the problem is designed by some forces to gain profit. This is where the socio-political situation got worse. On the street, protestors came out to the capital and to a number of locations. A number of business structures are imported almost annually into Ukraine by sugar-cheese, whose cost is much lower than that of beetroot, and the quality of sugar is also low, and with it you can't even get rid of it. The imported cheese practically destroys the native beet-sugar branch. Workplaces are being catastrophly reduced in the villages of the stormy zone and in the working villages of the sugar factories. The absence of an intervention fund for sugar and the licensing of wholesale sugar in the internal market enabled individual officials to claim that there was a sugar crisis in the country early in the summer. In fact, as of June 1, this year, Ukraine’s sugar reserves amounted to 900,000 tons, providing for the nation’s needs by December 1, 2005. So importing sugar-cheese into Ukraine was equivalent to transporting sand into the desert. The increase in prices for sugar to 4000,705,000 dollars per tonne was explained by the desire of a number of government officials, including, artificially, to create a sugar deficit to make decisions after importing sugar-sulphur from the cane. This is indicated by the fact that, on 25 June of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers' Order No. 219r “On intervention of sugar from wood reserves” was adopted, but during 45 days until 10 August, this order was not deliberately implemented until ships with sugar-sparing sugar were entered against the will of the Supreme Council, which was clearly defined by a vote that was taken into account by the Ministry of Agriculture's position as the former head of government, who had broken the decision to import sugar-sparing cane sugar under questionable schemes just before the new season of the processing of sugar beetroots. Moreover, a government meeting on August 23, 2005, lifted restrictions on imports of sugar and sugar syrups from the free trade regime with the Republic of Georgia. Since the country does not have its own beet-sugar production, a re-export of sugar produced from cane sugar will be made. This regime will lead to uncontrolled imports into the customs territory of Ukraine. As the Ministry of Agar Politics predicted, intervention of raw sugar into the internal market prior to the beginning of the beet-processing season dropped prices in the wholesale market. They went down to 2,500 to 2,700 dollars per tonne, and that doesn't seem to be the limit. This level of sugar prices does not provide an enterprise to cover the cost of producing sugar beet and sugar, the cost of which is equivalent to 225 dollars per tonne and 3150 dollars per tonne of sugar. Farmers suffer damage. This has led to a large part of the farms refusing to lift up the deep oracle, preparing the area under the future crop. That's how the village responded to thoughtless policies about importing sugar-sparing. Ukraine faces the threat of losing its own beet-sugar industry. 192 factories didn't work last year 71. Thirty of them were cut on scrap metal. As a result of the destruction of factories, the state lost more than 400,000 jobs. And this destructive process continues. By the 2005 beet season, 117 sugar factories had been prepared. It is estimated that more than 1 million million tons of sugar will be produced this year’s crop, which fully provides for Ukraine’s needs. To remedy the situation immediately, we ask the Supreme Council to enact a number of laws. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, in the case of the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar, number 7437. The draft Law on Occupational Interprofessional Associations in the Agrofood Sector number 5702, which will give greater leadership to this area. The draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on dismantling or Rose. Sugar factories. Project number 5702. Project. Sorry, 6113. The draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff, in part of the ban on imports into Ukraine without the payment of import duties of sugar and sugar products coming from Ukraine's customs territory and imports abroad. So it's sugar-cheese, it's processed, it's exported sugar, and then this duty-free sugar comes back as produced in Ukraine. Fifth. On the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax on Taxation of Recalculation of Natural Persons with Reprocessing Enterprises for the given raw materials. Amendments to the Business Taxation Act are proposed for payment of taxes to sugar factories by July 1. Amendments to the Government Budget for Ukraine 2005 Act, providing for the allocation of funds for intervention sugar purchases in the amount of 430,000 tonnes, are maintained by 250,000. And 180,000 to the agrarian fund, and we have to figure out the ratio of sugar beets to sugar beet. Expansion of production in high - octane oxygen supplements to bioethanol gasoline is extremely important for the development of the beet-sugar industry. The obligation to use this fuel is established in the United States, Canada, Brazil, India, Australia, and so forth. It is in force in EU countries by Directive 203/30. Ukraine remains or is not the only European country that is delaying the implementation of that standard. Drinking plants are able to produce 600,000 tons of biotanol per year with maximum capacity. The village consumes virtually that much gasoline, ensuring that 10,000 existing jobs in the liquor industry are preserved, that businesses are loaded, and that machinery is built. In view of this, it is urgent to adopt a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the taxation of production and the circulation of taxable goods, registration number 8073. [[on the promotion of bioethanol production]] The village is suffocating and groaning from excessive pressure on oil prices. We need a million 845 thousand diesel fuel and 608,000 gasoline this year to provide a complex of fields. In the last 12 months, the cost of diesel and gasoline has increased by 1.7 times, if the cost of 12 tons of solar power was equivalent to the cost of one bull in 90 years, 13 heads of cattle are now required to buy the same tons of fuel. As for milk, 2.5 tons of diesel could be purchased in one of its tons in 90 years. Today, only 250 kilograms [250 kg]. The large horned cattle play a role today for the village of the growing energy payer -- they're going under the knife because of the rise in fuel oil prices. The Ministry of Agriculture has been trying for 8 months at various levels to address the issue of changing approaches in the state to provide fuel and oil materials, as is done worldwide. A law on oil produced in Ukraine — more than 3 million tons — needs to be applied exclusively to the APC. This will protect the villagers from the devastating fluctuations in oil prices. We ask that Bill 7431 on resource security for oil products be considered and supported by the Supreme Council. I'm going to say that the appropriate tanning salon is in all of Europe and in other countries of Europe. We're not going to get out of a genetic crisis until we get our own production of biodiesel. At 61 dollars worth of barrels, it's going to be profitable. No wonder the rapeseeds have grown twice in recent years. In Germany, 1.3 million hectares, or 19 percent of the grill, are made in France 1.4, where only France produces one and a half million tons of organic fuel. We went to a sharp increase in rapeseeds. Next year we're going to have 730,000 hectares. It'll be raw. There is a question of the construction of factories, there is an appropriate program, and this needs to be done. And there's an appropriate bill that we'd like to support, 8073. A number of dragon’s fines for electrical debt may be imposed by Bill No. 3128 and the same sanctions may be abolished. I request that, honourable national MPs speed up the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Law on State Support for Mineral Fertilizers, with which two billion cubic metres of natural gas is projected for nitrogen fertilizer production, is 2.8 tons, which will give them a much cheaper price. I'm not saying that we have to buy technology every year for 20 billion dollars. Today, we're only buying 2 billion dollars. For. developed by the Ministry of Agriculture in order to overcome the agro-industry crisis. At the same time, the budget. The year does not take into account our needs and meets only one fifth of our needs. I want everyone to understand the situation of the village today. He literally has the cities of the European Union with its multibillion-dollar support, subsidies. Can our farmer and his produce compete on an equal footing with the local producers? That is why you, the honourable national deputies, must make a political decision. If we want the village to live and develop, modern gardening, children’s voices are ringing, we need to change our approach to assigning funds to the APC. The president of Ukraine announced the following year in the village. Please ask the Supreme Council to announce a week of village in Parliament this autumn, to consider and adopt dozens of bills that will bring the village out of a deep crisis. Property and land relations are not fully regulated. I think it's a problem, so to speak, of individual parliamentary hearings. We need to consult and find the right solution. All of this has also had a negative impact on the poverty of the village’s social sphere. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I, my dear friends, wish to finish one of the poets of the police, unknown, but I want to read: I'm from the village. I'm from the deaf. Where the radio is roaring on the pole, Where there's no one left, And those on top are like blind people. They settle cities like that. The Supreme Point of Truth and Purpose Whose children are you, and from which house?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u32	Have you lived in the capital all your life? Have you ever forgotten the words? "There is no life without grain and wheat And bread always and everyone's head." In the blue sky is the song of the crane, It's like the crying of an argument. A Village Dies, Ukraine Dies Because without sources, there will be no river. I'm from a lost village. In the woods, in the fields, and in the swamps It's like it's going somewhere and it's gone wrong. And the rescue has been waiting for so many years. But it's all in vain, he's not noticed. New ones are building subway stations, And people are stubbornly sowing and gathering With hope for the better, for the better. Hope is not dead yet, thank God, Isn't that why the crystal ashtrays So carefully they looked at the road: Are the daughters and sons returning? And in the spring, from the far seas, Without any plans or ideas, The storks are returning to my village. Are they wiser than humans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Are there any questions? Let's sign up. Please, 10 minutes on the board. Cook, get ready for Polychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u34	Kurharczuk, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Petrovich, you have called impressive, terrible numbers. Perhaps even without numbers, we can look at the countryside today, the affected fields. I'd like another one. You're from the Gitomir region. You know Polissa very well. Not a word was said about tourism and hops, which is an important area, especially for the Polish regions where there is total unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u35	I thank you for asking. In fact, many times are not called short of time, I've tried to raise the general problem, and the general problem is the following. That the market we had was formed under the conditions of the Soviet Union and the socialist countries. When we have our huge donations on the border of the European Union today, our production will not be competitive. I met with various businessmen at the U.S. Embassy yesterday, and they say that the village is going to lose a lot today if we don't adjust when we get into the S.T.A., where it's going to benefit the chemical industry, let's say, the same metallurgy. So I support your position on the flax, that's really true, there's a separate program for this, and it also, like other problems, requires its settlement. For example, the European Union provides state support for 1 tonne of flax within 600 euros in the same Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u36	Please, Kirilo Polishchuk, follow him Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u37	Kirilo Polishchuk, Regions, Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine Alexander Petrovich, I thank you for your report, but literally two words say, and the role of the state in restoring or developing the socio-cultural solutions that will be in the country will be reinvigorated, whether it is ours or not. And as for sports, please pass it on to my colleague Pecklesenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u38	Microphone, Pecknut, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u39	Alexander Petrovich! Given that time for poems was taken to prose, long - term credit was decided. First question. The price parity, with the Government of Yanukovic, the State Reserve purchased a third grade of 800, now 620. Fourth grade 710, now 500. Next question, spare parts prices. And most of all. The working group of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council should be declared simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Regarding the role of the state in the social development of the village. You know, paradox. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy is legally responsible for the social development of the village. And all the funds that are allocated for this are in the Ministry of Economics, and we have absolutely no bearing on them, and we can't even offer those objects that have been under construction for years, today, well, let's say 913 schools today need construction. They share them in their own way, at different times. That's why it needs the help of the Supreme Council again, so that these funds will work in the village, and they'll be in charge. Of course, it can’t be that in the city, from sidewalk to sewerage, everything is done at the expense of the budget, and in the village, it is hoped that someone will do so. Today, there is business in the village, and it also has its own costs, as once did the Colgés and the Radhospa will not invest in the social sphere. Moreover, when we put them in the social sphere, we don't even pay them off from the government budget, and we have about 700 million unreturned money. As far as lending is concerned. This year, we have good experience when 350 million dollars were allocated to the money budget for borrowing. The farms have been quite successful in making use of it. Although lately, you know, credit rates are back on track. So we ask the Supreme Council, we need at least 700 million dollars for the next year, no less, even though the budget is 500. In terms of price parity. You know, as much as I take from the whole story, there's never been a price parity, but the state regulated according to certain subsidies, and that's what happens around the world. And we never settle this parity, I'm sure. But the state can, by means of state support for production, the production of one or the other, as is done in Europe, as is done in civilized countries. We've always been told that there are no grants. That's not true. I can give you examples in many countries in Europe and the world. Until we work in the same field, we will not solve these questions until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u41	Please, Basil Nadrag. After him, Igor Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u42	Please give the floor to APC specialist, my faction colleague, Litvina Kalinchuku Vasili Antonović.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u43	Kalichnik's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Alexander Petrovich! Calinchuk, Clothing, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Rational consumption standards recommended by the Ukrainian Institute of Scientific and Scientific Research are now provided for animal products by only 51 per cent for plant products by 78 per cent. This problem cannot be solved by individual measures. So don't you see that you need a national long-term comprehensive programme to solve the problems in the agricultural sector in rural development. And this program, I repeat, should be state-owned, not the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. What is going on in this direction? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. You are right that agriculture, as well as a vast sector, cannot be treated as a separate narrow sector, and it embraces a very wide spectrum. About 40 percent of the population now live in rural areas. And when the Ministry of Finance wrote in the budget, the 2006 project, which it allocates to the village 21 billion, and when I look at it, 4.7 billion. The funds that go to the retirement of those living in the village, they write them down that it's the support of agriculture, and there's the salaries of teachers, doctors who live in the village, and so forth. Thus, when it comes to agriculture with such misunderstandings, the approaches result in such consequences. Today, according to our data and the State Department, about 95 percent of Ukrainian food in Ukraine’s markets. But as I said before, with the opening of borders and without subsidies, imports into Ukraine increased by 37 percent. And this is a huge threat. And so you are very right that today there must be a program that provides both protection for our manufacturer and expansion of the range of greater food supply for our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u46	Igor Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u47	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Alexander Petrovich, you're talking about grain prices, and they're jumping. But there are two extremes in this respect: first, the cost of grain and, secondly, the price of bread. The price of bread is one bracelet 80 copies. There must be a profitable store, a bakery, a profitable grain store, a mill, and so forth. How do you calculate it, and how real is the price of the grain, given the price of bread and the price of the combo, in order to make it profitable at this stage of production from the beginning to the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u48	Thank you. The point is, I have already told in my report that there is a subsidy per hectare of sown wheat in the European Union, in our neighbors, and in the United States. It's within 270 euros or more. But they have an export subsidy today. In the European Union, it is 63 euros per tonne. So I want to say that they have the opportunity to decompress prices accordingly. And our market price in the country is tied to the external market. It's between $108 and $130, depending on where we send the grain. I mean, we're grain. What a self - worth, when you talk about high on grain, we can no longer be less than it is today when we take all the ingredients. And we gave you a graph, and this year it's going to be 522 bracelets, and that's because we have a devastating salary. 28 percent is fuel. In terms of fuel in the European Union, today they are one euro, one kilogram of diesel fuel, but for a village on each hectare of rollers, sorry, the agreement is 122 kilograms of diesel fuel is sold at tax-free prices, i.e. half-euro for one kilogram, or three bracelets, and we pay a lot more. That's why it affects, without subsidies. As for the price of bread. Grains are purchased at a cheaper price this year than last year. Again, the price came back to what I was talking about earlier. Therefore, the price of bread, the price of bread, will have no effect. If other factors influence, another problem needs to be investigated. But not the price of grain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u49	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear reporter, the very best part of your speech and the most incomprehensible part of it, was these last verses, they caused the most excitement in the hall and applause. But there's something else I'd like to talk to you about. In 2003, you and your entire faction voted almost unanimously in favour of importing sugar-cheese, in 2003. Then there were 230 votes, so in principle, and the voices of your faction went through it. When were you honest? Then, when you now condemn imports of sugar-cheese or when voted in favour of it in the walls of the Supreme Council? Next question, third question. The second question. At the meeting of the Cabinet, a commission was given, including to the Ministry of Agriculture, to enter into direct agreements with foreign nations in order to bypass intermediaries and sell our grain at world prices. How many such contracts have been concluded, and how many have been sold? Well, and also interestingly, traditional farmers are tricked into determining the quality of the grain and private bakeries use lowerings of the grain class.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u51	I thank you for your questions and thank you for your assessment of how I delivered the poem. It's about the sugar-cheese vote. I know the situation in this area very deeply today, and I've accepted, I'm running this line today that's in the interests of Ukraine, because I know a deep situation in this area. And your faction with your former prime minister, knowing the situation so deeply, what was it that broke through the imports of this sugar-sore? And we see the effects that we've created in the sugar market today. Another situation. In terms of direct contracts. So we also have direct contracts, but they don't make any difference, let's say the middleman today, he also buys grain on the stock market, mostly from the manufacturer. The cost of transporting the grain from Kiev to Odessa to a port at one ton of more than 60 bracelets, even though it was 117. We spent all the services that were on the way. It's impossible to spend more money. And that's why today's price is what the world community dictates and we depend on their market. The grain sold on the external market on this date is more than 6 million tons. It's mostly 6th grade grain and feed, and a small amount of 700,000 is food wheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens. It is only during this meeting that the agro-industry complex of the Ukrainian village is dealt with repeatedly, both at parliamentary hearings and during the days of the government. Indeed, for several decades there has been a socio-economic crisis in the countryside, which has led to a recent famine in the meat market, whether in the grain market or in the sugar market. These negative trends turn into negative economics, a negative trend in the economy as a whole in the state, ecology, and further formation in the rural area of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the main problem that we have had a recent increase in crisis rather than stability in agriculture? This was discussed in the minister’s report, and this was discussed repeatedly. One of the key elements of today's socio-economic crisis in the village is the tsunami that was triggered by price policy, and more specifically after the 1990s, the liberalisation of the market for inputs to agriculture and sales, prices for agricultural production for the producer. Think about it. Over the years, the Ukrainian village has lost 147,153 billion dollars. Here's the main problem, where to start. And I am convinced that today all branches of government must respond with responsibility to this situation. The committee had recently discussed the status and budget of the Committee in 2006. And first of all, I'd like to divide our actions into front lines, which are now awaiting Ukrainian peasants. This is, above all, about urgent action on the grain market, which is a bill that is now being submitted to your consideration -- 8102, which will give you the opportunity to signal on the market about improving the price situation of the grain movement. Second, it's a sugar market. Accordingly, the law also signals the stability of price policy, the possibility of regulating sugar in the market. Third, think of the year at the end, and more than forty percent of the current budget has not yet been funded. So it's during this period of the month that I think the first priority should be the Minfin graph, which is focused on funding programs. And in these programs, it's possible to make a first correction. Not just the budget, compensation for crops of winter, but now support for crops of winter, because if we don't give two directions -- the prices of grain and support for crops of winter, we're going to have an extremely acute problem with the grain market next year. Fourthly, dear colleagues, we need to be clear and clear, and this awareness should go up and down, and vice versa, that Ukraine in the centre of Europe is a strong agrarian country, and should be adequately shaped by agriculture as a traditional, centuries-old European country: strengthening private property rights for property and land, the civil development of agricultural infrastructure and, of course, State support for those standards that are being implemented today in European countries. If we do not go to direct state support, the 2006 budget will not be implemented in accordance with the existing legislation, which is adopted by at least 10 percent, and direct state support and rural development will be fundamentally divided. We're not going to move this situation out of place. In closing, I'd like to say that we have to give a complex answer. This was the subject of questions and discussions today. So for this purpose, my friends, I propose that we spend the Government Day in this room and give a comprehensive answer: the Ukrainian village strategy for at least a decade and fully regulate the parties to the legislative authority. The legislative basis for resolving urgent issues is. And I'm convinced that we're working together, people are waiting for it, we need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u54	Yes, thank you, Ivan Fedorovich, sit down, please. Yeah, we got 15 minutes to talk. Vladimir Novak, it's Alexander Tkachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u55	Vladimir Novak, Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelničina The state of affairs in Ukraine today can be characterized by this formula: we have even worse than it was. With Timoshenko’s arrival, there was a crisis: meat, gasoline, sugar, gas, and utilities. The domestic gross product is falling, the level of industrial production is declining. I'm not talking about an agro-industrial complex that's broken down to the rest and there's no prospect of its rebirth. The technique went into scrap metal, and the ones that were left mostly worn out served their resources, so you can't get enough of the fertilizer. For a liter of solar power, you have to give up to 10 kilograms [10 kg] of grain. The village is dying, rural mortality per year exceeds the birth rate of 160-170,000 people. And today, listening to a speech by a socialist minister who says from this rostrum that we've made some progress in agriculture, the Ukrainian village, I think he's crying. He weeps from despair, from what he has done to him, from the shame of those who govern Ukraine today, from what an unsavory land-shepherd, from the fact that the peasants today have the greatest debt on wages, from the fact that the state has turned away from the village and is leading directly towards him in criminal politics. The Communists warned. They warn that this attitude of authority toward the village leads to disaster. And that must be understood by every Ukrainian citizen. In order to join the WTO at all costs, the government introduces laws into the Supreme Council that further aggravate the status of the peasant. Mr. Baranowski, is it because it was in your ministry's offices that a project was born on imported export duties on livestock and leather raw materials to export? What are we talking about? In 1991, there were 24.6 million cattle in Ukraine; today, the head of the cattle fell 2.6 times; pigs in 1991 were about 25 million heads; they fell 2.5 times; sheep from 12 million heads fell to 800,000. Mr. Secretary! Those who have been released, and those who have not yet been appointed, what do you think you are going to feed? How do you plan on raising the village? The people of Ukraine, who have suffered so much, must know the truth. The president announced the following year in the village. Like all the initiatives you've come up with, it's not going to give you anything. In a year, what was destroyed and stolen in 14 years was not restored. The villagers say maybe it would be better to announce the village and all of Ukraine free of this criminal thiefry -- this would produce better results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u56	Alexander Tkachenko, Communist faction, to prepare Pluto.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u57	Dear friends! Dear Ukrainian citizens who listen to us! Not so long ago in this room was the expression that today's Company is a follower of the Gulag. Today, I would like to say, to what numbers did the visiting minister from this rostrum compare? Not until those Soviet times under the Communist Party, when Ukraine was on the takeoff of economic, political and social. I think today we should think that 14 years, when three presidents call themselves nationals, they are deceiving the people. The president chooses a maximum of 39.40 percent. And today's president is also national. The village has fallen by 4,000 less than 32 already, and the population has declined by nearly 5 million and the entire population. And they're blowing the Communist Party. The pattern was and will be the one before the 1990s when the Communist Party really ran the economy and worried about the prosperity of Ukraine as a state. Today, dear friends, of course, what is happening and what we have heard in the Minister's speech is a disgrace to the state, a disgrace to today's leadership and to those who are now taking the lead. Today, Ukraine’s bread is not sown, and today Ukraine’s exporter has become an importer. I ask Yukhnovsky, whom I respect, you ask the child's questions to the minister, the head of the committee. You look, please, at the budget, it's going to be 6.6 billion over the next year. They're for cigarettes to mechanics, animals who worked for the Soviet government. 16.5 million rural people, 32 million urban people, who will feed the city? The village will survive, with a shovel, with a pitchfork, and how will 32 million urban populations survive, who will feed it? What, import? I think your respectable friends, 6.6 billion is a disgrace. In any state, the budget has three priorities. The first priority is food security, the second is energy, and the third is science. What's our bet? Is there a way out? Yes, there is. Today, it's going to leave 6.6 billion, but it's going to be sent to a material and technical base of 2 billion. 2 billion for social development, 1 billion for science and 1 billion for personnel, and the rest, dear friends, 20 billion we have to give credit 10-12 short terms under three percent and 12-15 long terms under 5 percent. And the state has to make up for the difference. I believe, dear friends, that the time has come to act. And there'll be trouble when the peasants
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u58	Thank you. Vladimir Antonovich Plutinski, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! Dear peasants! I have to say with a sense of responsibility for what I have declared to be a state of affairs in agriculture and in the country as a whole, that the situation in agriculture will change for the better. Today, the country is recognized at all levels as ineffective in today’s state policy in the agricultural sector. Instead of creating conditions conducive to the development of the APC, the state is treating holes annually. Will that be the end? Let me put it this way. I no longer hope for future improvement, despite the fact that 2006 was declared a year in the village. In 14 years of independence, Passwords have been declared numerous, and they have kept their mouths shut and rotted like the dead straw of an inexorable host. Let me be wrong, but today’s situation is a sign of rural distress. You don't have to follow the example, they're more than necessary. For what and for whom the Supreme Council adopts laws, and the executive does not execute them, or rather ignores them. According to valid legislation to support the agricultural sector, production and social development of the village this year was expected to reach 18 billion, but for 2005 the amount of support foreseen was only 6.5 billion dollars, but the peasants did not receive it. Thus, in the first half of this year, only 20 percent of the budget programmes for crop selection were used, less than 50 percent of the five - programme appointments being made. According to the World Bank, the level of state support in Ukraine is virtually the lowest: 0.6 per cent of the domestic gross product, while in neighbouring Belarus 18 per cent, and in European societies almost half of the budget is spent on supporting the agricultural sector. On more than one occasion, this room raised the issue of prices, promises to change for the better, but the situation is not getting better, and the situation is getting worse. Who can explain to me and the villagers why a ton of wheat costs 350 dollars, and for a ton of diesel, 13 tons of wheat is to be given? This, of course, is not going anywhere, as they say. In conclusion, I want to read a quote from the agricultural reform architect: "In three or four years in agriculture, there will be a technological collapse, the cut-off limit due to the lack of tractors will come early in 2008. More than 50 percent of crops will be lost, and in 2007 there will be no harvest of more than eight. Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u60	Gregory Kaletnik is invited to the presentation. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u61	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The short name is the main boundaries reached in the APC in eight months of this year. Without a comprehensive, scientifically based programme for the development of the main areas of the agro-industry complex, the Ministry, headed by Baraniwski, has put our peasants on the brink of total destruction and poverty, has confirmed the dissatisfaction of the better farming times. It has become clear to all that the grain crisis will soon come to light. This is evidenced by the destructive methodology of the purchase of grain from producers, a catastrophic situation with crops of osmia next year. You would have to remember that you were given a fully seeded winter. And the cost of a holiday price for sugar is the right way to destroy the bereaved farms. The peasants never saw the promised cheap tanning salon decorated in orange as promised by the minister. On the contrary, in nine months of this year, peasants paid two billion dollars more for a tanning salon than they had in the previous year. An anxiety situation also exists in the animal field. In seven months, according to state statistics, the livestock industry’s livestock has decreased by 35,000. and the milk production declined accordingly. Ignoring the country’s interests, the minister became an ardent advocate and main ideologist of mass imports of pigs, technology and products from Denmark and the creation of large industrial complexes in every area and later in every area. These actions were ignored by the native breeds of pigs, by the achievements of Ukrainian scientists, and by our hardworking peasants. It draws attention to the so-called “Baran’s” personnel policy: in most cases it is not to the professionalism of the worker but to the skill of office, personal and creative devotion. Under these criteria, there has been a change in the management of the State Department of Food, the State Department of Fisheries, directors and directors of important enterprises. There was a selection of the staff in the Ministry, according to the same principle. As for seeing the role and importance of agrarian science in the development of an agrarian complex, it is concentrated in the Minister's statement at the meeting in the Chernjevic region. "It's better to feed an extra bull than to support a scientist." That's a big score! The minister's appeal to the peasants, the constant complaints that are now in the information at all and all, around all the blame: in mixed weather, the borders have opened, the regime of the Kuchma, then Teryochin, Pinzenik do not give any money. We don't need to be teased! Television is constantly showing images of you all in orange scarfs, holding hands, singing that you are many and that you are together. These and many other merits force the minister’s party associates to spend more time accumulating the minister’s misdemeanors, to empathize with him, even though compassion is needed, by respected friends, to appeal to our patient peasants. I don't know who's going to decide on the nomination of the next APK minister. If the Prime Minister is Yehanurov, I would like to take into account that this is not just my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u62	Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Invite the national deputies to the session room. We're gonna have to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u63	Honorable MPs, respected TV and radio audiences! I'd like to go first to the political pygmies who can't heat themselves up in any faction and party, so they don't twist the essence of things and say something that doesn't have anything to do with the position of a minister who, by the way, stands up for the Ukrainian producer and the Ukrainian peasant, and to the extent that the possibilities that are being created today in the Cabinet of Ministers are doing this. And in practice yesterday, you argued the opposite, you did the opposite, and now you're suddenly in opposition -- against yourself. So I would like you to report back on what you have. Well, that's what this is about. Let's look at this problem more broadly. The price imbalance in Ukraine is criminal for agricultural production. There is no system of state support for the village, as is done in Europe. And everyone knows it and does it the other way around. A line that has already existed in Ukraine for about one and a half decades is continuing to bring about the collapse of total agricultural production, the village, and the land into circulation. There's nothing more, nothing more is being pursued. Everything we see is connected. And Bush's legs, and the orientation of imported production, and the import of raw sugar, and the price of grain and other products, products, material resources, and so on. In my opinion, a frank analysis made today by the minister regarding what we have today. And from here we have to conclude to ourselves what we have to do to change the situation. I could talk a lot about that, because we've made a lot of statements, and we've been holding protests against today's government that worked against the village, but I think it's imperative today that we do everything we can to buy grain from a peasant by the state to keep the price and at least keep the minimum cost of production viable. Second of all, we have to stop uncontrolled exports. Next year we'll be buying grain at three prices, import grain. And to continue, we must continue the moratorium on the sale of land. Because we have, we're already approaching the deadline when this moratorium is defined. Many have already sharpened their appetites and prepared their own, sorry, coins to make the earth go round. We can't let that happen. And the minister's position in this regard is very convincing. And what he said was true. It's a bitter truth. We are obliged to accept the laws that he calls them. We must force the government to do what is necessary for the village today, otherwise there is no prospect of the village, and that means there is no prospect of the state. No prospects for the state. Just back off. In the back of our last bastion is the land. I would like all of us to consciously understand this when we consider this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u64	Who's talking? What's the line? What was the name? No last name. Dear colleagues, we now have a draft decision. No last name. Dear colleagues, we've been looking at this for over an hour. I understand we can talk as much as we can. So invite the national deputies to the session room. For the reasons of the vote, three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u66	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u67	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. We've heard some critical information from the minister. We just don't get it, it's an assessment of the whole government and the situation, is it just the Cabinet of Ministers, or is it just Minister Baranowski's evaluation, in terms of, maybe even populist motives? That would have to be clarified. Thus, in the decree, the draft decree would have to be written in the first paragraph: After hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers rather than from the Minister of Barani. So it's all there right then and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u68	That's a very good point. Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u69	Alexander Pecklesenko, faction of the Regions. Dear colleagues, the issue of the village is where everything must go to the back and the issue must be considered in essence. I believe that if we take it this way, we will not solve the main question: we will not answer our voters what to do. In my view, a working group from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Deputies should be established immediately. To require Echanurov to meet urgently on this issue, to develop a package of laws that will solve all or most of the problems. And next sessional week, start with the adoption of laws on this package.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u70	It's also a very nice offer. If the committee is ready, we need to take a day or two there and adopt a comprehensive list of bills. Please, Oleg Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose immediately after the discussion of information from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to take a decision prepared by the Committee on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of affairs in the agro-industry complex, where we would clearly identify those projects that need to be considered in the first place in the Supreme Council, the changes to the 2004 budget and certain guidelines for next year's budget. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm also very much asking you to consider project 8,102 changes to the budget immediately. This will be our concrete step towards solving the problems of the village. The project provides for an additional 900 million dollars for the intervention of the agrarian fund to buy 1 million tons of grain and 180,000 tons of sugar. Once again, this will be a concrete step towards solving the problems of the village. This will give us the opportunity next week, and we're working in the districts, the budget committee, along with the Ministry of Finance, to work on this project, and we're going to look at it in a week, and we're going to accept it as a whole. Thank you, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u72	Yes, Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u73	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Please give the word to Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u74	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u75	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." I believe that the decree and the Minister's report did not speak at all of such an important culture that is now developing, namely the rape that should be used for future energy, which is widely used in other countries of the world. This has to be done. Now it's a question of helping the village. The aid must be where the productive production is known to be unprofitable, and the land is unproductive. But there are places on earth in Ukraine where agriculture can be profitable. And we have to separate each other. And lastly, I would like to say about Alexander Mikolaiovich, who always mentions me in his speeches, maybe because during my time as the first vice-premier, he got a big loan from him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There was an amendment about. Please be prepared. Well, now, one minute, let's vote, then a line. He will, he'll be right on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u77	We agreed in this way that I would like to say that by listening to the information of the Cabinet of Ministers, with which I spoke to the Supreme Council in charge of the duties of minister and beyond. And then there's the first point: to recognize the state of affairs in an agri-industrial complex as being a crisis. We need to react, we need to edit. That's what we're going to do. Therefore, given this amendment, which was said by Vladimir Leschchenk, I propose that he be put to the vote immediately. The committee will be ready, we'll have a meeting with the committee head, we'll set a day, we'll put it to a vote. Therefore, taking into account the proposed proposal and taking into account what will have to be done in literary terms to edit it, I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree as a whole, as a decree on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the status of the agri-industrial complex of Ukraine, registration number 8174. Please vote. [[12:23:22]] For 281 I'll take the order. We can see if we want. According to the faction, please: Communists - 50, "Regions of Ukraine" - 31, National Party - 44, "Our Ukraine" - 27, Block Timoshenko - 1, SPI - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 20, SDPU (o) - 0, "One Ukraine" - 10, "Reforms and Orders" - 12,Industry and Entrepreneurs Party - 8, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, NDP "Trudova Ukraine" - 5, non-fractional - 11. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issue is under review: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers. Sorry, take it off. What, what? One minute, a line called Alexander Mikolaiovich. One minute, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u78	Igor Raphaelovich, I will forgive you for your age, but our difference with you is that I am the Hero of the Socialist Work for the Bread, and you are the breakup of this state. And I think so. There's no other way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! We're doomed, we're forced to work here, I'd like to ask, let's find a common language. Now it turns out that Yukhnowsky, please. It's going to be a second exchange of replicas and that's it. Please, the microphone. Dear colleagues! There's already been an exchange, and this is the second time Adam Ivanovich has told me, so let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! I really worked perfectly for the Soviet Union, and now I work normally. But I wanted to say about the loans that Alexander Mikolaiovich was talking about. When I was first Vice Prime Minister, I trusted him, and then he was given a loan of 82 million German stamps for the development of some agriculture, particularly corn. He didn't return a penny. I'd like to know where the 82 million are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u81	There's been a double exchange, please. There's been a double exchange of lines, please. Tomich. Please. Now I've said Tomic's speech, I've announced, and then there'll be a line, you listen to why you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank each and every one of you for supporting the draft decision. The draft resolution, which is aligned with the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries and departments, provides for a number of measures to address the situation. Now I want to ask you the same question for everyone and for you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the secretary of the committee has raised the question: people are waiting for concrete action on this situation. We're going to be working in the districts for a week if we don't take the 8102 as friendly as 900 million -- that's for stabilizing the grain market and the sugar market. We're not going to have a winter crop this year, we're going to be buying about a year and a half of a thousand grains. Please, let's vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u83	I think it's like that, dear fellows! Now we have no less important question about the situation in the fuel-energy complex if you have a desire after we listen, please let's take a look at it. Replica, you're already in my presence swapping lines and we're done here, I mean Igor Rafailovich and Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u84	Dear friends! I think Igor Raphailovich must have forgotten something, I'll remind you. I was invited to the Cabinet of Ministers as the former First Deputy Secretary of the Council of Ministers to develop the project, I developed it, Yukhnowsky approved it. I was said to be a regular. Kuchma gave "good". Credit received the Cabinet of Ministers, neither Tkachenko nor Petrenko, no one will lend a penny without a mortgage, and we had no mortgage. Thus, Igor Rafailovich, a 70 million - dollar loan in 1993, produced 111 million dollars. Once and for all, the money went to the state. The weaver didn't get a penny, and if it did, I had 132 attorney generals working for me for years, and then they apologized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The issue of “Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of affairs in the fuel-energy complex and the preparation of residential-communal enterprises for the autumn-winter period” is under discussion. We have two reporters. Fuel and Energy Minister Ivan Vasilovich and Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. Given the time we have, I'd like to ask the rapporteurs to speak essentially. And it's suggested that this is the order of consideration. In order to report to the doer of his duties, the Minister of Fuel and Energy is about 10 minutes away. The answers to the questions are up to five minutes, for the head of the State Committee on Housing and Social Affairs Alexia Kucherenko, 5 minutes and 7 minutes, respectively. Then let us see how we acted, whether we need to discuss it. I think now we're going to be able to give this information. Ivane Vasilovich, please start with the price of the gas that is proposed and is accordingly proposed to be put into the budget. CLAIMS I.V. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The fuel and energy complex of the state, consisting of electricity, nuclear energy and nuclear industry, the oil and gas sector to the coal industry today, is stable and provides consumers with energy at transparent prices. I'd like to highlight some of the main performance indicators in the field. Electricity production amounted to 122 billion kilowatts/hours in 8 months this year or 3 percent more than last year. Electricity exports nearly doubled, significantly reduced technological costs of electricity on the grids and reached almost the norm. More than 4 million tons of coal production, which has made up almost 52 million, has been raised against the challenge. For the first time in 10 years, not only has there been a halted decline in uranium production and processing, but there has also been an increase of 7 percent. Some have increased oil production with gas condensation and natural gas production. Since the beginning of the year, Ukrainian consumers have used nearly 44 billion cubic feet [44 billion cu m] of natural gas, 1.5 billion more than last year. More than 12 million tons of oil have been placed and processed in Ukraine’s oil refineries. Unfortunately, oil supplies decreased by nearly 4 million tons compared to last year. However, despite the decline in oil, except for the short-term artificial deficit created in the spring of this year, Ukraine was fully stocked with fuel-oil materials. And today, in the rich countries of Western Europe, there is a shortage of motor fuel consumers in Ukraine, provided by oil products at full prices, with adequate fluctuations in world oil prices. And that's because prices are one of the lowest in Europe. Energy consumption has increased significantly. They account for 98 percent of the electricity, more than 97 percent of the natural gas, for almost 98 percent of it. Energy, in particular, not only pays a hundred percent but also repays the miners’ debt over past periods. All of this allowed, first of all, more than 11 billion to be paid to the State budget. Money, or 108 percent of the sums. Compared to the previous year, the government budget has increased by five billion dollars — almost twice as much. Secondly, increase the wages of coal workers by almost 20 percent. And in my opinion, most importantly, in the history of an independent Ukraine, in carrying out the President's mandate, the problem of repayment of debt and payment of wages to miners has been solved, why the changes to the State Budget have been greatly facilitated by you, the honourable people's deputies. As for the preparation of the complex for the heating season. In September, the government approved a plan of action to complete preparations for the winter period. Coal sector. In addition to the dumped coal consumers, there are over 39 million coal consumers. A ton of coal, which is almost a million dollars -- energy, the rest -- is coxsive -- is still at the warehouses of coal companies today. Costs for financing preparations for winter are provided by the coal industry. On schedule and according to needs, the population is provided with domestic fuel. The re-establishment of the Ministry of Coal Industry, which aims to promote investment in the coal sector, create conditions for privatization, improve job security and social protection of miners, implement effective market mechanisms that turn the sector into a self-sustaining sector. The oil and gas complex. With regard to the State's natural gas supply. Gas resources for 2005 amounting to 99 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. The cubic metres are made up of 20.4 billion cubic metres of gas itself; the gas obtained from Gazprom VAT for transit services is 24 and a half billion cubic metres; the gas imported from the Central Asian Republic is 37 billion cubic meters; including the investment gas obtained for work is two billion 600 million cubic metres; and the underground repository gas is 16 billion 600 million cubes used during peak consumption periods with subsequent instigation during the spring-summer period. Today, according to existing contracts and contracts for the purchase and supply of natural gas, a monthly gas flow and distribution balance has been developed, which is secured by gas resources by April of the following year. The development of a balance corresponding to April 2007 is being completed. As of September 20th, 14 billion cubic metres of gas is attached to underground landfills, and at the end of the season, approximately 16 billion cubic metres of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine will be placed in the shelter. The available gas resources will be sufficient to sustain the needs of Ukrainian consumers throughout the whole autumn-winter period 2005-2006. The only outstanding issue remains the signing of an intergovernmental protocol for the following year on conditions and economic indicators of Russian gas transit and the corresponding contract between the economic entities of the parties. During the first round of negotiations, the Russian side insisted on switching from 2006 exclusively to European monetary accounts for both gas transit services and Russian gas supplies to Ukraine. The Ukrainian government delegation, in turn, insisted on compliance with the agreements set out in previous intergovernmental agreements, the long-term contract between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and VAT Gazprom on the volume and transit conditions of Russian gas in Ukraine between 2003 and 2013. To date, discussions with the Russian side on the transit conditions of natural gas in 2006 are being conducted at expert level. For the next meeting scheduled for October, the Ukrainian government delegation will stand for the maintenance of existing Russian gas transit conditions, which will allow for the preservation of gas price parameters. We are confident that taking into account the mutual interest of the parties in ensuring a stable transit of Russian gas into European countries, the solution will be found without economic loss for Ukraine. This basic and auxiliary equipment of the gas transport system is fully prepared for the fall-winter period. Regarding the supply of motor fuels, it should be noted that domestic oil companies satisfy demand. At the same time, rising oil prices nearly doubled compared to the beginning of the year, reducing consumption. Thanks to changes to legislation adopted by the Supreme Council, preventive mechanisms have been activated to increase imports of petroleum products into the internal market, which has ensured their completion. It should be noted that the retail prices for motor fuels in Ukraine are among the lowest in Europe, where their dynamics are completely driven by world oil prices. High oil prices and the introduction of national standards for motor fuels have spurred the domestic oil refinery to accelerate reconstruction and modernization with a view to increasing the depth of oil processing and the production of European oil products. Electricity. Planned work on the reconstruction and repair of power stations and networks is being done in full measure. Over 3 million tons of high - quality stamp coal have been stored in thermal power stations, more than one and a half million tons more than last year. Stockpiling of 148 thousand tons of oil. This will reduce gas consumption by a billion cubic meters. Unfortunately, there is a danger of being ready for the winter of some heat - power plants, such as Alexandria, Sevastopol, Odessa, Kharkiv TEC, and others. Zovev's experimental TEC. For the purpose of timely and reliable heat and electricity supplies, additional funding and revised repair schedules have been determined. In order to determine an effective system for managing heat power plants, the Ministry is considering the principles of a single approach to governance throughout the country, for this reason, works closely with the State Property Fund. Atomic energy. On ten power grids of nuclear power plants, repairs have been made, and two power grids are now in operation. Secured, overloaded. 12 nuclear power grids of nuclear power stations. At the same time, the shipment of spent nuclear fuel is carried out according to the schedule. Active work is being done to diversify nuclear fuel sources. The South Ukrainian AES was installed and the first six heat - emitting nuclear fuel collections were launched in August by the company “. ” which will allow for the purchase of fuel on a tender basis in two suppliers in the future. In general, nuclear and electricity, the oil - gas sector, and the coal sector are prepared to carry winter loads. So, honourable national MPs, I am fully responsible for saying that the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine is ready to work during the fall-winter period and is capable of securing the demand of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u86	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Please, five minutes to ask. Please, Alexeyev. Get ready for Pellcake. Symphony microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u87	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ivan Vasilevich, a persuasive request to explain to me, let's say how high-quality coal can be found at the thermal power plants if we don't have practically enrichment plants? Or are you deceiving us, or are you deceiving us? Second. Explain what is being done to close debt with Turkmenistan this year, and you've reported it so well, at $640 million. You already have a deficit of 2.5 billion bracelets. And you're not talking about it. Tell me what you're up to. We just don't have any gas. You're walking away from the answer to the state of the treaty campaign with Russia, when you've repeatedly stated that the price of gas will be at least $150-160 per thousand cubic metres. Thus, we, the Communists, warn that it will stop chemical enterprises, those that produce mineral fertilizers. Steel, energy, machinery, boiler room, etc. will be hit. After all, can you tell the truth?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. So, as far as coal is concerned, we decided four months ago to accumulate 3.5 million tons. Thus, the generating companies at the power plants control the quality of this coal, Peter Nikolaevich, and the quality of energy coal, are in full compliance with the standards and standards required for combustion. I can assure you that these coals will be burned, and we will save exactly 1 billion cubic metres of gas incinerated. With regard to Turkmenistan, the currency component of Turkmenistan for the gas in question was fully paid. Commodities are currently being agreed upon. There's a $480 million supply to be made. Some 300 million have been agreed on today. And that's what's going on. These existing treaties are subject to obligations after agreement. Delivery today is going with some delay, about a $3-4 million cut, but it's not critical at that amount. As far as Russia is concerned. Today, there are signed contracts signed by the intergovernmental protocol that designates the Russian gas transit system for Ukraine's gas transport system, followed by the gas supply. The Russian side proposed to change parameters, price as transit, and subsequent change in gas price. The first round of negotiations was held. The Ukrainian side insisted that, for 2006, we clearly retain these parameters for transit and gas prices, so that we are ready to consider and the experts are working, and that if an agreement is signed to change these price parameters, it will not undermine the economic performance of the gas transit system and the supply of Russian gas. They're negotiating at what cost, 160, 180, 230? So these statements, they didn't sound a gas price figure at all in the negotiations. There was no name for gas prices in the negotiations. I am responsibly speaking, I was the head of the Government delegation and held negotiations, Petr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u89	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u90	Alexander Pecklusenko, Faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozska oblast. Ivan Vasilevich, me and my constituents and the whole country are interested in specific questions: Will it be warm in winter in homes, in hospitals, in schools? If so, on what basis is this confidence based? If there are problems, what are the most painful questions? Second, the problem of small cities. Before the start of the heating season, there is always vanity around small cities. Is there a list of cities that may have problems with heating? And the last question, so-called Energonadzor controllers. Do you know that these people are acting, not as controllers, but as gendarmes? Is it possible in this country to bring order to this department and to make them the controllers of what is real so that they can treat people with respect, the pensioners? I understand their function, but their conduct is beyond criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u91	Thank you. With regard to: Will it be warm? The main parameters of preparedness for the fuel and energy complex are three. These are personnel, equipment, fuel. And I already said in my report that we have absolutely no reason to worry about fuel, equipment is prepared, staff is available. With regard to consumer security, the second part, Alexei Juryevich, regarding Gilkommunhoz, would report the situation. As far as the cities are concerned. I've already said that there are a number of troubled cities -- this is Sevastopol, and under Sevastopol TEC, you remember, at first this year there were problems, repairs are now being completed, a gas contract is being signed. There is a problem in the Odessa TEC, so it has been decided, and now we are dealing with this issue, before the heating season begins it will be resolved. So the Zueva Pilot TEC, so we've been tasked by 1 October, so the adjusted schedules will complete this work from 10 to 15 October. With regard to energy surveillance, the number of personnel employed in energy surveillance is quite high. I don't rule out that there are those factors that you're talking about. So we are the Ministry, through the State Energy Inspectorate, so we will work to ensure that all energy monitors, such as public, privatized, mixed forms of property, work in uniform standards and comply with those rules and those requirements that are given only to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u92	Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich, please sit down. I give the floor to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Alexei Yuriovich Kucherenko, please. Five minutes of information. And five answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Preparation of residential-communal facilities for work in autumn-winter conditions 2005-2006, as always began in the spring and right after the previous heating season. For the purpose of organizing the work, the State of Technology has developed an appropriate plan of action, created by an inter-ministerial operational headquarters, which is continuously monitoring the state of readiness of residential and utility enterprises to work in autumn winter conditions. In order to carry out Kabmin’s tasks, committees are monitored continuously for the preparation of residential and social facilities for the winter. The committee constantly analyzes the monitoring data and identifies the current tasks at the selectors' meetings with the deputy heads of government, the heads of regional administrations. According to the approved schedule, the board’s management and experts are conducting checks on the area where the local executive authorities have held meetings of the panel on the issues listed, approved regional arrangements, and established regional headquarters. As for the generalized indicators, I'd like to give you the following information. In housing, the country is fully equipped for winter with passports for 206,000 houses, accounting for 87 percent of the plan. In the heat industry, 91 percent of the weeds are prepared, and in the current year, it is planned to replace 766 km of thermal nets in pipe computing. In fact, 76 percent of repairs are made today. In the water supply and sanitation industry, 92 percent of the water supply networks, 84 sewerage networks, are captivated. At the city's enterprises. 88 percent of the planned work, the preparation of the mobile warehouse, was carried out. 81 percent of the streets and roads are capitalized in road and bridge agriculture. I didn't want to define any regions separately, but what I'm saying is that we have a particular concern about the state of affairs in the Odessa region. On September 29-30 of this year, the committee scheduled a meeting in Kharkiv of the All-U.S. Council on the preparation of residential and utility enterprises for work in the autumn-winter period. I would like to invite all the desirable national MPs to take part in this action. With regard to one of the main problems of natural gas calculations, a particular concern today is the level of natural gas consumption by enterprises. According to operational data, the average current estimate is only 80 percent. Lower average calculations in Donetsk, Zakarpatski, Lugansk, Odessa, Ravensk. The total debt of natural gas consumed in the current year is 217 million dollars and tends to decrease, but very and very slowly. Between the heating period this year, that is, in January and April, debt was virtually not paid off by the following areas. Odessa, again, Vinnitsky, Kirovogradski, Ravenska, Hersonian. The question is, how can such debtors include gas? But with a view to improving the situation, we are being given selective advice on how to prepare for the heating season and on how to calculate energy consumption. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, given the numerous appeals made by citizens of Ukraine, by social and political organizations and by public organizations, the unification of citizens in the media has raised the issue of rising housing and utilities tariffs. Based on the government's concept of the need to regulate the activities of natural monopolies, of government regulation, once again, I would like to emphasize what water and sanitation and heat supply companies of the State-commungos consider to be appropriate and even socially necessary to take joint action to analyse the economic feasibility of tariff policies. This work has actually started with a price inspection, and we wanted to invite people's deputies and all the public organizations to take part in this work. Regarding the main problems that affect the financial situation today, I would like to say that, from January to August, the total debt has decreased by 113 million, but today it is 8.6 billion dollars, including the debt of $2.2 billion, the debt of budgetary institutions and organizations is 272 million. We're very concerned that there's a debt of government-funded institutions in the section of ministries -- the Mini-Defense 24 million dollars, Min. Internal Affairs is 17, Min. education and science is 16 million dollars. There's the debt of institutions funded from local budgets: 184 million dollars, that's exactly the problem we'd like to ask for your support. Dear National Deputies! The state of preparation of residential and utility facilities is consistent with the plans of action approved by local executive authorities and is permanent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u94	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Five minutes. Please, Alexander Bondarchuk, Korsak behind him Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u95	Alexei Juryevich! Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Your report makes it seem as if we don't have any such threats in general in housing and utilities. Although it has been reported recently in all media that the main funds in housing and utilities are up to 90 per cent and that your economy is actually bankrupt. And we haven't heard from you in this respect. How are you going to solve this problem? Can housing and utilities be pulled out without serious investment by the State or are you still going to translate all the burdens of this problem into the hands of the impoverished population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u96	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as asking a question is concerned, I'd like to say that I can't agree that it's when you say it's your housing and utilities. The vast majority of residential-communal enterprises are communal, they're communal property, and that's why, first of all, this applies to our territorial communities. Regarding the housing situation, I would like to point out that they are, these problems that you're absolutely saying that both the 80-90-percent ratio of core funds and the very poor financial situation, but unfortunately it's not half a year or even the last half a year that these problems have accumulated. They've accumulated all 14 years of our independence, because it's the housing-communal industry that's been subsidizing our population, unfortunately. That is, there is no doubt that huge funds must be involved. What will be the cost of state or not, I have no doubt that the issue will not be exacerbated by the State. You know the real possibilities of the State Budget better than I do. That's why we're proposing a series of concepts for reforming the sector, one of these concepts involves joint corporate financing mechanisms for enterprises that provide both public funding and funding from local budgets, and the bulk of the burden is on private investors' investment costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u97	Please, Alexy Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u98	It's a hell of a word to pass. Adam Ivanovich, Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u99	Paklusenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u100	Dear Alexei Juryevich, it's easy for me to ask you questions because you worked in Zaporozhye County as governor and tried it on your skin. Tell me, how does the situation really work with small cities? And how can we avoid this preconceived vanity? Why is it that debt problems are not dealt with by the authorities for a period of three days before the heating season? Do you know, if you don't know, please take a look, I'll give you a personal call, a heating problem: Volnjansk, Poga, Guliapole, Novonikolaevka Zaporozski district? And how do you comment on the funding situation of your department?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that I will always remember my cap, so to speak, the epoch, we can agree, yes, and I promise myself, literally next week to come and hold a joint meeting on the situation in Zaporozhye. Surely there is a problem of small cities and their residential-communal agriculture. And this is an objective problem, and believe me, I don't have a 100% recipe for today, so how can we radically solve this problem? The point is that we're in a great hurry to break down the residential complex. And now there are thoughts and suggestions, as Lenin said: First we need to reunite, then we need to think about how to move on. Regarding underfunding. There's underfunding from different sources. There's underfunding from the State Budget, and I've talked about it, and I know and assure the Minister of Finance that this problem will soon be resolved. There are problems in the local budgets, they are different in each region. There is a problem that directly relates to the level of population payments. I want to say that I'm very grateful that today our population's consciousness is that, despite its very low economic level here, we actually came up with 98 percent of the housing and utility bills. It just shows that people have understood, and now is the time when the state should meet people. With regard to underfunding for general housing and utilities, I would like to point out that out of the 400 million budgeted, only 186 million actually went to housing, utilities, and I can't agree with the principle that these funds were allocated. We patch up holes again, we repair roofs or buildings, but we don't solve a complex problem. That's why everything needs to be done in the budget next year to foresee a completely different approach to housing financing. The basic principle of this approach is that for every bracelet of public investment, you have to include 5 or 7 dollars of private investment. I just can't see any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u102	Well, Odessa was mentioned very often. Then we'll give Kalinchuku a chance to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania Dear Alexyy Yuryovich, many enterprises and organizations have been relying on subsidies for the construction of gas pipelines for the gasification of weeds in rural areas and in cities. But unfortunately, these subsidies did not reach businesses and organizations. I understand that's what the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is all about, but you have to know about it and control it. What does the committee do about it, and how can you influence this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u104	Thank you for asking. Well, the easiest thing I could do is say that, really, we're not responsible for this, but I represent the government, and I want to say that, unfortunately, it's very late for us to make this decision, but today, as far as I'm concerned, these costs are 187 million dollars, they're predicted, they're on Treasury today. So they're going to go to the region in the near future. What worries me is that the mechanism for allocating these funds to the Sustainable Komongosp was, in fact, only the role of the statisticians. We were just checking the crash and the technical documents on these objects, but we had no effect conceptually, unfortunately, on the distribution of these funds. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm asking you to support other approaches to the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u105	Thank you. Alexi Juryovich, please sit down. The chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Anatoly Petrovich Kljev, five minutes, please. Prepare Korja from the Committee on Construction and Transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The state of affairs in the fuel and energy complex is known to determine the country's normal livelihood. In recent years, structural changes, adaptation of enterprises to market relations, improved payable discipline, as well as the restoration of the coal industry, have resulted in balanced work by the TEC industries, and positive trends have been observed in the growth of key performance indicators. The country has already forgotten the correct cuts and other restrictions on energy consumption. Except in cases involving natural or technological phenomena. The long-term relationship with key energy suppliers in Ukraine was streamlined and translated into a long-term relationship between Russia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. Relatively stable were the prices of energy resources released by the consumer, which enabled the economy to develop at a high rate, to carry out social programmes aimed at improving the quality of life of the Ukrainian population. This situation has been maintained until the beginning of this year. What have we got so far? Inefficient management in TEC and tightening market administration. This has all contributed to the formation and implementation of short-sighted and destructive policies towards the economy at the expense of national interests. In a short period of time, there have been radical changes in the system of economic mechanisms, which could not help but affect the overall trends in the country's development. The galloping prices in the energy market have caused goods to travel on the food market and increased tariffs on the services of road transport, other goods and services. The economy and the population of the country are constantly adjusted to price dynamics at the expense of other, no less important, items of their costs. However, there are limits to allowable values when such imbalances arise. In cases of overstatement, there are real threats to national security. Such a situation could result in an expected increase in prices for natural gas imported by Ukraine from the Russian Federation from next year. Of course, the rise in basic energy prices is due to the rapidly changing situation in the world oil and gas market. However, in our view, such a gas situation is created artificially as a result of the violation of all economic diplomacy canons to the detriment of Ukraine's national interests. This is an unprecedented case in the history of Ukraine and Russia's cooperation in the energy sector According to experts, at a cost of $120 per thousand cubic metres of natural gas, chemical production will stop in Ukraine and at $140 becomes inefficient. In the event of restrictions on gas release for TEC and other types of fuel shortages, there may also be serious problems with the generation of electricity in the autumn-winter maximum 2005-2006. Is it worth further talking about the consequences of the management costs and the price to be paid in order to maintain the sustainability of the Ukrainian economy? Of course, an increase in tariffs for gas transit through Ukraine could be mentioned, but should it be taken into account whether this would result in some benefit in the future for Ukraine or would it be inevitable to lose? The situation of energy imports and the state of preparation of the TEC for the autumn and winter period 2005-2006 is a matter of concern to the entire MPs, irrespective of the factional membership of the people's deputies, as evidenced by their recourse to the relevant committee. According to members of the Committee and other people's deputies, the main issue now is the settlement of relations with the Russian Federation regarding the conditions for deliveries of Russian gas to Ukraine next year and the conclusion of the relevant treaties or the enforcement of contracts already concluded. The negotiating process, including at the summit level, should be intensified. It is also desirable to receive support from the State Duma of Russia. In our view, the violation of national interests will inevitably and negatively affect the state of the economy and the geopolitical situation of Russia itself. In order to remove the fuel and energy complex from such a complex situation, to prevent the development of the energy and financial crisis and to destroy the main sectors of the economy, to ensure the normal livelihood of the population in the coming autumn and subsequent winter periods, we believe that a set of urgent measures must be prepared and taken as a matter of urgency. To that end, we propose the adoption of Supreme Council Regulation 8128.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u108	To this end, we propose a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to prevent the deepening of the energy crisis in Ukraine. [[Registration No. 8128]] And begin to act in accordance with its plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u109	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, Vitaly Corge, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The situation regarding the preparation of residential-communal enterprises for the autumn-winter period 2005-2006 was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications in early September this year. According to local information, 87% of housing units in the country are now comprehensively prepared for the winter. It's not a bad figure, but 13% of the unprepared housing is tens of thousands of housing units and hundreds of thousands of our citizens. What should they do? After all, only three weeks remain until the start of the heating season. It is similar to preparing for the winter of blacksmiths, heat, plumbing, and sewerage. About 80% of the planned work consists of actual work from the capital repair of streets and roads. Worse situation is coal and liquid fuel. This is largely due to the level of debt for services. Yes, the total debt owed to residential-communal companies for the first August of this year was 2.2 billion. That's right. Anxiety is caused by the level of calculation of the natural gas consumed by heating companies. The total debt of utilities for gas on July 1, 2005, amounted to 2.5 billion. That's right. We believe that the difficult financial and economic situation in the field is due to a weakening of the state leadership of the sector. I mean, the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing and, of course, the underfunding of the State Budget have not yet been created. The implementation of the tasks and actions of the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2004-2010 is under threat. In view of the fact that only three weeks are left to remedy the situation in the preparation of housing-communal enterprises for winter, it is necessary: firstly, to ensure the primary and full funding of regional subsidies budgeted and the implementation of disaster bias and the prevention of technological disasters in the housing and utility economy. And the second is to analyse the current tariffs on energy resources and forecast their level in the autumn-winter period 2005-2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what are we going to do? Right now, we're supposed to be going with you to the Miscellaneous. Shall we go to the Vulnerable?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u112	Okay. Yes, we have to vote the verdict, and Andrew Petrovich called it, but I don't have it. Andrew Petrovich. Andrew Petrovich Klovev, where's the verdict? Where is she? When? Give me one copy, please. Dear colleagues, I don't see the decision. Now they're figuring out where she is. The MPs didn't see it, let's do it this way: on Tuesday, or when we make a decision on this issue, when it's given out, because I don't even have it, if I don't see it, I doubt you've seen it. We're done with you on this, so we agreed that the committee would prepare, distribute. And on Tuesday, you and I are going to vote on Thursday. So, with your consent, we're moving on to the Different. Please sign up. As long as the record goes, I'll introduce you to the announcement. In accordance with article 4.2.1, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules and the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, dated 23 September 2005, I will inform you of the expulsion of the national deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Budagyanz Mikoli Abramovich, Head of Sergei Petrovich, Mr. Kozlovsky Anatolia Mihajlovich, Mr. Igor Mikolaiovich, Mr. Solosenko Mikoli Pavlovich, Ms. Skitishviska Envera Omarovich, from the MP's Faction Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Please, we have 60 minutes on Razna. Please show the list on the monitors to remind your colleagues who is behind them. Please, Korsak's Alexi, Rajkov will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u113	Korsakov Alexei, constituency 50, Party of Regions of Ukraine. The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” party considers it necessary to explain to Ukrainian citizens its position on signing a memorandum of agreement with the President of the country and the Prime Minister on the agreement between the authorities and the opposition. The main motivation for us to sign the memorandum was a sense of concern for the future of Ukraine as an independent indivisible State with a developed economy and a decent people. At the time of the signing of the memorandum, the situation in Ukraine had become extremely complex, divisive and war of compromise among the first people in power had put the country on the brink of a sharp political crisis. The repression against the opposition through the use of force structures has not ceased. The situation has been compounded by errors of authority in the areas of reprivatization, economic governance in general and the individual sector. As a result, in August, for the first time in six years, the decline in GDP was officially recorded in Ukraine. This is because there were no and no objective economic conditions for the crisis. The further uncontrolled deepening of the crisis threatened a sharp decline in the standard of living of the population. In such a situation, the Party of the Regions, as a political force acting in the interest of the people, could not be sidelined and limited to traditional opposition criticism, there was an urgent need to lift political tensions and speed up, calm society before the March elections for councils at all levels. In this situation, the party has taken a step towards the leadership of the State, in the interest of society as a whole, by proving its ability to leave the interests of the people over ambitions and mutual claims. We have set a number of fundamental conditions in the event of the implementation of which we were prepared to give up the confrontation with the authorities. The demands of the Party of the Regions are: the cessation of repression against the opposition, the consolidation of its status and rights to special laws, the implementation of polytreform as a mechanism for the prevention of political crises similar to the current, immediate adoption of laws on the Cabinet of Ministers, on the President of Ukraine. The immediate introduction of amendments to the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which eliminates the prosecution of members of local political councils. The transparent formation of a new government based on professionalism and distance from business power. Finally. The authority gave the floor not to pressure the courts or to waive administrative resources in the 2006 elections. The faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine” states that the signing of the memorandum does not in any way mean that we renounce the political principles of our electorate. We have not been deprived of the status of the opposition, but the opposition is healthy and thinking, first and foremost, of the position of the people. We won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u114	Rajkov's giving the word to Sita, please. To prepare Anastasiav, he conveys the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mikhail Sithina, People's Party, Carpathia, 74 constituency. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In a statement made yesterday by Igor Jeremeyev of the People's Party faction, the faction publicly issued to the President of Ukraine a reasoned requirement on the need for radical change in human resources policy, particularly at the regional level. Among the examples of false appointments for governors seriously discrediting new authority were the many - suffering Zakartat region. Before the victory of the Orange Revolution, the region was celebrated by the most corrupt, ruling the ball of concept, not the law. Unfortunately, nothing has changed in principle here today. The area that is called came from the flames of fire, from the scavengers of some corrupters who operated under the roof of a well - known political structure and were identified with the former governor, the without limits of today’s power, which is being paid to ransom the head of the district administration of Victor Balogah. Little is said to have shocked my countrymen and voters, it simply killed the hopes of the people who were standing with Ukraine on the capital stage and hoped that the new authorities would break the back of the criminal pole. The Carpathians were well aware of Baloga’s actions since his previous governorship and his tenure as mayor of Mukachevo. It's him who's been creating affairs for years that have not been dreamt of by Ostap Bender. In its time, the central and local press wrote much and deliciously about the questionable activity of the owner of Barva. What a device that was turned over by today’s governor a few years ago with the repayment of millions of dollars in pensions and salaries! At first, people were forced to receive food sets at higher prices through the Barva structural units instead of money. Under the trusty cover of the governor for these products from the local budget and the pension fund, they were quietly given living money. According to the facts of the crime, a criminal case was committed. But for some reason, she was pulled down. Similar episodes behind the shoulders of present - day masters of Carpathians are many. It's not enough for a day to tell. Returning to the force of the governor’s district did not bring good or tranquillity to the people. As they searched for posturing work around the world, they cursed the authorities, so they continued to search for it. During this time, no new industrial enterprises have been employed, the situation has not changed for the better in agriculture, education, culture, and health. Instead of taking care of the increase in production and well - being of the population, the new governor’s team provokes new political divisions, conducts systematic staff cleaning, and imposes its rules on business. But the electorate expected a completely different kind of new power, and that's what they tell us at every meeting, whenever possible. The main question is whether he has a right or not to address the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u116	Thank you. Instead of Anastassieva, Vladimir Matthew is speaking. Get ready, Usachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u117	The people of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine, Yushchenko and representatives of various bourgeois parties, having announced a course on professional economic governance, the restoration of the rule of law and the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the improvement of the well-being of the people of Ukraine, have been able to confirm for ten months the integrity of the slogans and promises expressed in May. The events surrounding the privatization of the country's largest industrial enterprises and the remaining part of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, former Soviet Union flagman, can testify to this. In corporateization and the subsequent sale of shares in the factory, Ukraine lost the largest plant in Europe to a large-scale special craft. The number of formal jobs has been reduced three times and, in fact, eight to nine times. The volume of production has declined by tens of times, the issue of ships has ceased with ever-increasing demand for new courts on the world market. The sale, through a subsidiary company, of the Nikolayev Small-Tonnesty Shipyard of a State-owned stock package containing 90 per cent of the company's statutory fund, at a price 27 times lower than that previously sold by an unbuilt plant, gave its collectives, families of factory workers, a large part of the city's territorial community to no one in the hands of unknown, so-called portfolio investors. The new owners of the plant have begun their activities by violating contracts of sale in respect of compliance with payment deadlines, payroll repayments and the Pension Fund with their own sources of investment. All of these violations were known by the State Property Fund, which had concluded the treaty, but had not taken any measures to terminate the treaty. Having acquired the public stock package, the new owners did not enter into their investment commitments to modernize production, maintain jobs, build ships, but engaged in a banal sale of property, including that not entered into the State's main fund. The proceeds of the property stolen from the State exceeded the costs of the new owners for the acquisition of the State package. The Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine is aware of the State's damage to workers' rights, but it does not take effective measures to protect the rights of workers and the interests of the State. The anti-constitutional violation of labour rights has been supported by the judiciary. On 8 September, the judge of the Goloseiev District Court of Kiev issued a decision prohibiting the trade union committee of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant from holding any assembly and conference of the labour community without any reference to legislation. The appeal of MP Communists, the conversion of the factory to the President, to the public administration and control bodies remained unanswered. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, supporting the treatment of the factory community, requires the President to implement the full respect of the interests of the State by them and the Government of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u118	Thank you. Larissa's vacuum cleaner. After her, Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u119	Larissa Usachenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Information society is a society where the use of information technology, computing technology and telecommunications is common in all areas of life, where the level of knowledge, rather than property, is a determining factor in social differentiation, and the interests of everyone, economic, political, social and state as a whole are taken into account and reconciled. Ukraine belongs to countries where the development of the information society is just beginning. A positive method in this process is that there is a merger of government and business and the public sector for one common goal: to build and define the strategy and development of the information society in our country. Which should include, first, giving all citizens the opportunity to acquire and acquire the skills to work with information technology through learning and training. To this end, it is necessary to provide schools, libraries, archives, museums with computer equipment, to provide qualified professionals in the field, to create computer centers, and to provide free training for employees of state enterprises, institutions, and organizations. The other one. This strategy includes life support for small and medium-sized enterprises, enabling them to connect and use the Internet effectively. Third. Improving network access, especially in remote areas, in rural areas. Four. Promote the use of open information, available to all users of software, while respecting intellectual property rights. Fifth. Dealing with current problems. Such as the absence of a modern technology base, national information infrastructure, the financing of appropriate programs and projects, the increasing impact of local authorities on processes, information, the fight against computer and high - tech crime. And the last. The creation of a network of specialized science and technology centres whose activities should focus on the priorities of information society development in Ukraine. International cooperation with developed countries of the world, international organizations, is a special place in the development of the information society. It is therefore necessary to properly form Ukraine's consolidated position in that direction. Clearly, much of this depends on the level of socio-economic development and the international situation of our nation as soon as possible. Today we can certainly say that Ukraine is an open democratic state, a country of the bright future, and our shared task is to build on information technology, to form a political culture of a new Ukrainian citizen with eternal values and traditions of the Ukrainian people. Thank you very much, thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Eugene Filindash, please follow him, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u121	Eugene Filindash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Chief, national MPs, radio listeners! I would like to draw attention to the issue of the millions of our citizens, especially the young. It's a problem of mortgage lending for young people's housing. I will not explain to you, dear colleagues, that the welfare of our young people, birth, is largely dependent on the welfare of the young family. And the state of birth in Ukraine now allows us to talk about the demographic crisis. Clearly, the level of government funding for existing youth lending programs is only a drop in the sea. I'll give you a few digits. On the scale of our 2004 nation, only 2,700 young families and single citizens were granted credits. And the improvement of living conditions requires more than 100,000 young families, that is, no more than three percent of the young people who need it. Despite these figures, the 2006 State Budget project proposes that the financing of long-term credit to young people be reduced by 23 million dollars compared to the projected figures for this year. While it is intended to increase expenditure on another article, which provides for partial compensation for the interest rate on housing purchases, this amount actually reflects the amount of compensation that increases each year for loans made in previous years. It doesn't add optimism to the rapid rise in housing prices that can't be compared to the official level of inflation or the rise in real population income. In the past five years, prices, for example, have increased about 5 times in the Kiev real estate market in the dollar equivalent. In the last six months alone, housing prices have risen by 30%. Solving the Problem It won't work without a substantial increase in public budget expenditure. Also, without any more tangible support from these programs at the local level. Another aspect of receiving credit from many young citizens of Ukraine. In practice, it is virtually impossible for a young person to get an extended loan, an average young person. There's something to think about. The procedure of the queue is opaque and closed to the public. As a result, some citizens will receive credit today without, in practice, waiting, while others do not know if they will have their turn for the rest of their lives. And the middlemen in the paws help solve this problem for a reward, regardless of the order. Sadly, this continues after the arrival of the new minister in the family and young Pauline. And the situation is not changing. Therefore, the new government and the new minister who will be appointed need to be given much attention. And the Supreme Council needs to establish legislation in the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u122	Thank you. Peter Cibenko gives the floor to Viacheslav Anisim, a faction of Communists. Please. Get ready for Volinka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u123	Won't Zibenko walk. Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. Anisimov, 30th constituency, city of Dniprožinsk, faction of the Ukrainian company. In recent times, from the nationalists and socialists who are now in power, calls have been heard more and more, saying that people are tired of shocks, they need to calm down, because people's emotions are threatening the national security of the state. The most active ones are those who had orange devilish Sabbaths on Ukraine’s playgrounds yesterday. When a trusted nation gave them their full authority, it turned out that they simply did not know how to work. As in a cheap American movie, they are enthusiastically demonstrating their muscles, calling themselves terminators, attacking helicopters, and armoured transporters with private homes, offices, and businesses. School principals are demonstratively guided by handcuffs in rural areas, and hospital and professional officials are released in large numbers. The president will report the release of 18,000 officials without even considering looking into the Constitution and making sure that he has no right to do so. In positions of responsibility, ordinary ignorantness, boundlessly ambitious and greedy, but not for work, but for the good of the people. So it's no wonder that in six months they've been quarrelling, watering each other with dirt, and they're demonstratively calling themselves the national elite, and you, the revered Ukrainian people, among themselves, the biomass. When it becomes clear to everyone that they do not know how to work, they ask that, I apologize, the biomass is not disturbed and that God does not explode, that the explosion can move them away from the power trough, so the gentlemen are excited. Their call to calm down for Ukraine is completely sincere, for Ukraine really needs a sacrifice, just as vampires need a sacrifice. During the 14 years of anti-communist rule of Kravczuk, Kuchma, Yushchenka, five million Ukrainians were rushed to their graves, seven million were driven out of the country, nearly 200 billion dollars of deposits were looted, factories, colognes, radospas, but there is still land, rivers, lakes, and a railway. So the vampire authorities still have something to suck from Ukraine, that's what they need it for. For him to come to his senses, our people realized that he was not a biomass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u124	Mikhail Volintz, please. I don't see him. Avramenko Volodymyr is the same. It's a hunchback. Basil Nadrag, please. Phone in the pocket and on the stand. After him, Igor Alekseus passed the word to Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Regrettably, we have not had a better time in the Chamber today to discuss the problems of preparing housing and utilities for the winter, because, after hearing the information, we have not been able to ask questions to the Cabinet of Ministers, I think we have reduced the impact of this procedure in some way. Why? Let me give you some examples. We talked about preparing for work in winter is one of the most important areas. And here you were listening to a report by the President of the State Committee that said the situation was much better than it was. I want to ask you a question. I, representing the Lugansk region, am the city of Lugansk. I have a village in Jubilee, where instead of dealing with the boiler room and developing this situation, and it's only possible to develop it through the center, it turns out that instead they're starting to figure out and settle the charges that affect anything, except that the village of Luhansk Jubilee will come into the winter with warmth, because it's Mintopenergo's questions, and it's unfathomable that people will end up without heat. [[and the Minister of Fuel and Energy and the Committee on Housing and Utilities and the settlement of Jubilee are miners, and the money has to be centralized.]] Let's move on. Preparation of water treatment facilities. The subject? It's a theme. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from you in a few days. What, though, is the final point in obtaining subsidies from local captrudership and gasification budgets? In the same Luhansk, these are schools and hospitals, which are primarily preparing for winter, this is the Great Vergunka, which is submerged, and its gasification is the only way to facilitate people's participation in order to enable them to live in at least less comfortable conditions. Sources of energy in Ukraine. There's a lot to talk about that we're missing something. But there's methane in coal. According to experts, we have 12 trillion cubic metres. It would be enough to produce, I beg your forgiveness, almost all the electricity that the coal industry needs today for its domestic needs. Regrettably, I am approached by those who do not do so, and by those who are developing. What does the world’s experience tell us? What it takes to do that. We don't have that anywhere in the executive's office. No one's doing that on a case-by-case basis. So, in summarizing the situation, I can say one thing. We are going to winter, and in this winter we would like the Cabinet of Ministers to remember its obligations to the population in front of the territories. Please consider this my request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u126	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u127	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Ukrainian workers, oppressed by the ruling regime of Yushchenka, are increasingly taking up their ranks and are actively fighting for their rights. According to the Communists ’ initiative, protests against the status of power have been rocking all over Ukraine. In the Chernigiv region alone, recent events have taken place in all cities and renegotiations against the use of harmful administrative and territorial reform, the sharp rise in prices and so-called harassment tariffs on residential services, and so on. A popular protest against rising tariffs for heat and water, initiated by the Ukrainian Company, took place on September 10, this year in Priluka. The audience condemned the anti-national actions of the local mayor as well as the social policy of the orange team. They asked the following questions to the authorities. Why Are Pre-election Promises Not Fulfilled? Why is the 50 - percent increase in tariffs for hot and cold water and heating? Why does the authorities not consider that new tariffs along with fast - rising prices for goods and services without raising citizens’ incomes are stripping them to pieces? Why is the city of Priluki, for example, much higher tariffs than at the nearby Neck? The adopted resolution sets out, inter alia, the following requirements for authority. City council members immediately convene an emergency session and suspend the operations approved by the Mesquikon. Since Mesquicon, together with the MPs, stop spending budget money on secondary measures, focus all financial revenues on ensuring the city’s viability, raising the well - being of citizens, and functioning the city’s public sphere. From the Provincial Interdisciplinary Prosecutor’s Office to verify the legality of the imposition of excessive tariffs on the city’s population, which are approved by a decision taken by the Mesicon and take appropriate steps to respond to the opposition. More than 10,000 are required. signatures. I hope that victory will follow the inhabitants of Pritak. And from this point of view, I would like to point out: Ukrainian workers, do not put your back in front of the bourgeois government, unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine, and fight decisively for your rights. All power is for the working people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u128	Dmitry Rudkowski, followed by Vladimir Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u129	Dmitry Rudkowski, Bilocerkow constituency, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, on November 18, 2004, in this room, you and I passed the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of Children of War, developed by the People's Deputies, members of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Baranovsky and Rudzkowski. This law constituted the legal status of children of war and established the basis for their social protection, guaranteeing their social protection through the provision of benefits and State social support. Especially children of war, people who are citizens of Ukraine and who were under 18 at the time of the end of World War II on September 2nd. Some benefits have been established. In particular: temporary disability payments of 100 percent of the average wage regardless of working hours, free travel of all types of urban passenger transport, road transport of general use in rural areas, rail, water transport of suburban connections, and buses of suburban routes. The right to a 25 per cent reduction in the cost of utility services - gas, electricity and so on within the average consumption standards. Children of the pension war or monthly life support or government social assistance paid instead of retirement. There is a 30 - percent increase in minimum pensions by age. The financial security provided for by this law is made at the expense of the State Budget. This important and timely law has been introduced since January 1, 2006. However, for unknown reasons, the Ukrainian National Budget 2006 bill, submitted by the government of Yulia Timoshenko before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not provide for funding for expenditure related to the implementation of the aforementioned law. I think, in any case, whether it's done consciously or wrongly, it can't be done. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine fully shares the concern and indignation of Ukrainian citizens who have the status of children of war and make numerous requests for support and assistance in the establishment of justice and the unconditional implementation of the provisions of the law, especially since this law is a direct act, the law of direct action. So I am addressing the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers with a strong demand: to review the state budget's position with a view to unconditionally taking into account the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children in the area of financing social guarantees for children of war. Ladies and gentlemen, please support me, and my statement is considered a parliamentary request by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yehanurov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. He'll be followed. Tsarenko gave the word, Shurmi, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u131	Fucking Communist faction. On October 3, this year, the city of Cherkasa will be protested by citizens of the city and the area for failure to comply with the decree of the citizens of Cherkasa, cities, and districts of the region, which took place on August 23, 2005, in connection with violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms. Participants in the meetings of citizens of Cherkasa, cities and districts of the region, which met on August 23, in the area of Vladimir Illic Lenin, in Cherkasa, where the local Communist Party headquarters of Ukraine, along with the district headquarters of the left front of Cherkaschina, expressed their protest and dissatisfaction with the policies and actions of the new government led by President Yushchenk. They've heard many times about the rapid improvement of people's well-being, about the fulfillment of promises made in winter on the field and here in Chercas, but in fact nothing changes for the better except prices and tariffs that rise almost daily. According to article 48 of the Constitution, every citizen has the right to a decent life. Article 43 gives everyone the right to work and the right to earn a guaranteed old age. But in our country, there are only authorities and officials who set up salaries that are tens of hundreds of times higher than the pensions and salaries of the rest of the population. We have a decent life for those who reject laws and live by the notions of unlawfully adopting the good of the people, hiding their profits, lying, and robbing the people and the state. We are worthy of a person who enters our wallet unceremoniously, raising the price of food and necessities, housing tariffs, and utilities, medicine, and transportation. The people gathered in the square, in accordance with article 39 of the Constitution of Ukraine, demand that the authorities turn their faces to the common people, resolve their current legislation, primarily their acute life problems. They do not want to live in poverty and poverty. But the power is deaf. She did not hear the voices of participants in the protests in Cherkas and Cherkas region on June 1 and 21, this year, August 30, in the village of Kolodizkom. She's deaf to the problems of residents in the area, where South-West and South-West areas, where autofuels are illegally built and children's parks and squares are destroyed, Cherkassa. She hears the voice of thousands of unemployed war veterans and laborers, disabled people, workers, and servants. It does not respond to the requests of workers, the villagers of the village of Kolodozky, where a broken factory is illegally carved into scrap metal, and today they demand improvement in their lives. That's why I'm asking the Attorney General of Ukraine to check the legality of the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u132	Thank you. Igor Šurma. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u133	The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party notes. The recent crisis in Ukraine's executive system has resulted from gross and systemic errors in human resources policy directly from the President of Ukraine. Human policy was committed to it. Subjectiveness and prejudice. It was a frank refusal to take into account political and social realities, to the fullest extent being the destructive effect of such destructive categories as camaraderie, family intimacy, friendship, personal devotion. All of this destroyed the basic component of effective government activity, the professionalism of its officials. The result of such a special approach to the formation of a state executive vertical was the destruction of the country’s economic system, which in recent days was recognized not only by the competent state authorities but also by the President of Ukraine himself in his statement to the Supreme Council. A special feature of the state’s new personnel policy has been the ignoring of current labour laws, the almost daily assurances of following the spirit and the letter of the law from the President’s mouth, unfortunately, had nothing to do with reality. The fact remains. Twenty thousand civil servants have been dismissed only because they worked under the previous regime. People’s experience and professionalism were simply ignored. Unfortunately, the knowledge that the president was elected instead of his environment came too late. The Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines the mandate of the President of Ukraine and foresees their delegation to anyone, even the Secretary of National Security or the Secretary of State of Ukraine. However, Ukraine has become a witness to freeness of speech and, clearly, a dangerous attitude toward the basic law. The faction of SDPU(O) has repeatedly called the head of state's attention to the inadmissibility of similar, essentially anti-constitutional steps, initiated the submission to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the conformity of the basic law of the President's decree concerning the powers of the Secretary of the NPO, but our demands were then ignored. The new authority also gave rise to the problem of cohabitation. In order to solve the problem, the president was all-important, and it was only today that the president decided to enact the rules of the law on the specifics of liberation, which was initiated by our faction. However, given the discovery of a criminal case involving a co-conspirator, it is difficult for us to believe in the President's intentions. The very sincerity of the President’s steps, but on the way out of the crisis, the faction was moved to go to the rostrum with that statement. We claim that in yesterday’s vote after the Prime Minister’s candidature, the old scheme of culinary arrangements was once again involved. The promised transparency and openness were once again eloquent. The Supreme Council has never learned of the President's intentions for the staffing of the government. Let's put it this way: The president apparently lacked the wisdom to admit his own mistakes in organizing the government today and did everything he could to ensure that he was responsible for future developments. Only rejection of underground games can happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa, followed by Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u135	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. Dear radio listeners, nobles! I have to go to all the authorities, all the honest people with the cry of the souls of the inhabitants of Kirovgrad. The city of Kirovograd is marked by a number of exclusive indicators. It's here by ordering the power of provocation that was taken for the city mayor's play. Here the Kuchma regime is removed from the power of the lawfully elected mayor of Cimbarevich and placed on this position of Chigrin. For nearly four years now, as the miscicon of workers and Communists has embalmed the land of the local community, they have done their utmost to give away almost all the municipal property for free of charge of the criminal elements. Prosecutors of the city of Kyrovgrad and the area have brought more than 20 protests against illegal decisions of the city, where most of the Trodova Ukraine party. However, the local judicial authorities are slowing down the solution to these problems. Is it possible for a normal person to understand the fact that eight out of the 46 deputies of the land are involved in criminal cases? Six labourers criminally forged elections in a hundred constituencies. The company in this world - famous fact is silent. On the contrary, it is common to hear cries of persecution. So where's the real face? Deputys of the city’s head Kuharenko and Andrew across from the Council’s rules of procedure, chosen not by secret ballot, but by an open vote. There's a prosecutor's protest, but Chigrin doesn't see a violation of the law because he's not friends with him. Two other deputies serve as city officials and have no responsibility because they have not taken an oath or are not civil servants. The chief physician of the first hospital, a member of the 100th district TVC, the deputy of the state of Larissa Andreyev hospitalized on the day of the election about 50 hospital staff who were in their jobs, but were forced to vote under control. Chigrin can't see that either, and some are yelling about her rights violations as well as the rights of his chief counterfeiter of Hilchenk's election. In a covered market, one of the deputies, the landowners leased two and a half acres [2.5 ha] of land and immediately reduced the land tax. The city budget did not reach 18 million dollars. So does it hurt the management of a city supported by communists in command, for the fate of the people, for the cold classes and for the apartments, for the ruined elevator industry, for the acceptance and so on? The city has run out of city hospitals. Chigrin’s and those who support him should learn to be the head of Malovsky’s Paradise government, a socialist named Neboga, who did all he could to preserve a liquor plant that is supported by the population of the region. Not only are Lenin’s monuments being demolished in the area but they are being restored. Therefore, I would like to ask you to consider a question to all interested representatives and authorities. The socialists and I, as a national MP, are addressing the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich. Get ready. He passed the word Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u137	Lilia Grigorovich, National Union of Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, and above all, distinguished voters! You'll hear a lot of different things about the Vamps that suck blood out of the Ukrainian people. But I want to point out that vampires and assholes get divorced when there's no God when there's 70 years without God, they're not gonna get divorced. But, thank God, today Ukraine with God, and day after day, step by step we will overcome this terrible, shameful phenomenon as an inheritance from the past. Dear voters, dear friends! I know that the difficult two weeks that we have lived with you have raised many questions, many answers, sometimes divisions, and sometimes doubts. But today I want to assure you from this rostrum that 17 days of the orange revolution is not a one-minute action that should have done everything and everything that has never been done and that we planned with you. This was just the beginning of a great process, a great work. And in this process, there will be many successes and mistakes, there will be many trials and difficulties. But the people who took the stage set a goal, a goal, and the main thing that he made his choice. Ukrainian national president Viktor Yushchenko testified that the distribution of orange elephants had ended, and the authorities had cleared the business. We are convinced today that the President has supported Parliament, its strong position by voting in favour of Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine at a time when some have been called a crisis of relations, a sovereign crisis, in 289 votes. And this is evidence that the ideals of Maidan need to be realized, forming a democratic vertical of power, supporting civil society. Today, there have been many doubts about what is signed as a memorandum between the Regions and the President. I want to say right now, let's mention that the Central Election Commission's decision on the results of the second round was overturned by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, saying that a forgery had been created. And so the political repression of a teacher or unemployed person who was there for 20 bracelets, she sat there for seven months and waited for that sentence and had morals. Society. But Mr. Kiwalov made a service floor; he committed violations that are treated as abuse by a high official of the state. And that's why I want all people to know that there will be no kivals on the Central Electoral Commission and there will be no teachers or unemployed who will allow themselves for 20 bracelets of ticketing, and there will be no chief doctors who will put people in the hospital. That's what the president said: the election will be fair. And one more thing about the playground. Majdan was a unique phenomenon of planetary historical order. And I'd like us to realize today that this is an event that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u138	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, instead of Gennady Widow. Get ready for Chechkanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u139	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine The faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine is concerned about the situation that now consists of the creation of the National Park "Cold Jar" in the Cherkas region. Taking into account the unique historical, artistic value of the complex, history, culture, and nature in the territory of the Chigir district. And the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR decided on March 7, 89, to establish the Chigirian State Historical and Cultural Reserve with a branch in the Cold Spring, which was granted the status of the National Reserve in 1995. At present there are three botanical local customers in the forest, apart from the monument to the nature of the national significance of the Cold Spring. Zubovsky, And the White One. The cool Yar is not only 9,000 acres [9,000 ha] of forest floor but also unique monuments of history, culture, and nature. And they are all closely related and harmoniously complement each other. This is where most of the monuments are: the Motroninian town of Scythian times is a monument to national archaeology, the Holy Trinity Monastery of National Architecture, and the oak of Maxime Iron, one of Europe’s most powerful trees. And also places related to the heroic liberation struggle of the Ukrainian people, the Republic of the Netherlands in 1918-1922. And surely all these monuments have a unique meaning for future generations. More than 140 species of shrubs and woodland species grow in the Freezing Spring, about 150 species of grass plants, over 80 species of birds, about 30 species of males, 10 species of amphibians, and so on. And this tells us that the territory needs a variety of scientific research, but it's going very slowly at the moment. We need to realize that there are very few places like the Cold Jar in Ukraine that need proper attention. The most valuable areas of the local Freezing Spring landscape are marked by a national monument. But these measures are not enough; environmental services, students, students, and caregivers are now involved in the study and conservation of the region. It is not enough to preserve a unique environment and solve problems to create, in our view, a conservation structure that should be the owner of the entire territory. It is most appropriate, according to experts, to create a national park to which to transfer the lands of Krisletsky and Gruszkow Forestry, the branch of the Cold Yar, the National Historical and Cultural Reserve of Chigirin, and the preservation of cultural heritage. The public has repeatedly raised this issue, there have been decisions by a number of district, rural, and district councils, but there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u140	Let's fix it if the legislation gets in the way. Sergey Chickanov, Communist factions. To prepare for Frost, Anatoly Drachevsky gives him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u141	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. Our lives and the lives of the electorate have one feature that we cannot change. The thing is, summer always changes autumn, and autumn changes winter with her frosts, snow, colds. And this is something that happens regularly, unfortunately, not all high-ranking officials know it and take it into account. For example, Sevastopol Ivanov’s head of State is very sensitive to changes in nature. For more than 10 years, heat has been scarce in the long - suffering city, hot water has been forgotten, roofs are not repaired, and heating seasons are threatened. Mr. Governor sees the solution to the issue of heating Sevastopol as simple as possible, the main thing being to raise public service tariffs, with as much as possible, as he has tried repeatedly in recent months. At the top of cynicism, there are attempts to raise tariffs on what there is really nothing that people do not use. Gorsovet Sevastopol rejected these attempts three times and became guilty, as did the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation for some colleagues in our Hall. They have become an obstacle to the way of Ivanov and to his great ferrets and transformations in the city. In order to remove these obstacles from 17-19 September during this period, the internal affairs authorities in Sevastopol, according to a decree above, in violation of article 30 of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, article 71 of the Law on Local Self-Government, began to hunt down members of the City Council, primarily the Communists, by trying to pressure them by violating procedural rules. This took place before the upcoming city council session. Apparently, not Ukrainian laws, but the laws of the Majdan, to which Ivan had been treated in some way, have become a priority in Sevastopol. Apparently, President Yushchenko should also consider where Governor Ivanov is preparing a social explosion in the town of Sevastopol, provoking people to starve and cover the streets, as was the case last winter. Members of the City Council participated in this exercise. Unfortunately, the third defence of Sevastopol, the defense of its own Government, the anti-national ruling regime and the nearby local officials, is ongoing. Man’s patience is boundless. Let them live properly, or they will take appropriate measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Anatoly Frost. Goydash. I can't see. The kings are the same. Blackwolf, Malinowski. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At the request of the people of Tokmak, Zaporozhye district, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Volodymyr Mihajlovich. “Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! The President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko and the members of the Supreme Council, have repeatedly stated that we will live in the rule of law. We want to believe that, but we can't. That's the reason. The authority of the judge of the Tokmak District Court of Igor Glebovich Ushatovyh ended on 5 June 2005. When, on 8 June this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine addressed the issue of the approval of a judge, in particular Judge Ushatogo, the vote gave Judge Ushatay 48 votes in favour. And the decision to elect the Oshath judge has not been taken indefinitely by the Supreme Council. Under the Constitution of Ukraine and the Judicial Administration Act, the powers of the judge are also terminated as President of the Tokmak District Court. Nevertheless, Oushataj continues to work and direct the court to the rights of the President of the Rajsud, meets with the judges weekly, distributes cases for the judge at a time when the incumbent of the Tokmak District Court has been appointed Shapovalov. In addition, Ušataj has access to civil and criminal cases, other service documents, which are not acceptable at all. In those days, Ushatya is trying to delay all regulatory delays until the next nomination for the session of the Supreme Council. As Judge Oushatey does, here are some examples. Unfortunately, I won't be able to read it. How justice is done, O Hearer of mind. On 14 October 2001, Intersyuz, the Head of the Intersyuz, in an uncertain state, carried out an accident on the Niwa service vehicle. As a result, the motorcycle driver and his wife were fatally injured and their three-year-old son, Vladik, remained an orphan. The criminal case was dealt with by Ushati — and sentenced below the lower limit: four years on probation for one year. And released the assets of the Inters Union GS from custody at a time when the civil action for the recovery of moral harm was essentially not considered during the trial. To date, the sentence for finding moral harm has not fully been implemented. Little did the judge take into account the fact that this Coal had already been held accountable for driving the car in an unsettled condition. Well, there are many other examples. So after the press conference as Frost, well, that's me as the people's MP, where I've voiced my position, and Judge Oushatey has begun to threaten the collective and those people who address me as the people's deputy and others with what he's about to do, and that he's bound to be a judge and so on. Therefore, we strongly request, ask our current speakers to address us at the sessions of the Supreme Council and to take measures to prevent the approval of such judges for life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. After him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go down to such a hammock as Mikola Sadowa has now done. People, I think, will judge communists and socialists in the March 2006 elections. It's more important than that. So proud of the authorities, and only the authorities celebrated the 14th anniversary of the initiation of the anti-State counter-revolutionary coup on all channels, even who came in with the clothes on their families. In the days leading up to this, round tables were held on the topic “Ukraine’s Independence – A History of Achievements and Prospects”. Although all the gains are economic decay, privatization sins, rural looting reforms, unemployment, the deepening of the spiritlessness, especially the young. In short, the winnings are "unsurpassing". And one of them, the most painful and disgraceful, has sent 7 million Ukrainians abroad to earn a living to support the family. And whose economy are they working for? Even the Germans probably did not take as many people into exile as corrupters and oligarchs of the Qutsmian and Yhtschenky authorities sent in the white world. And the perspective can be judged from my region and the optimistic attitude of the Kirovograd sub-units, who are boldly talking about positive sums in the light of the increase in mortality and poverty in the area. For example, the head of the health department noted that the health sector worked well, the main indicators were done, and in fact the optimist forgot that maternal and child mortality had increased by 34%, and the region was becoming increasingly vulnerable to HIV infection and tuberculosis. Twenty - four obstetrics have no polters, and in a crisis of personnel, medical personnel have begun to shrink dramatically. In the area, there's a constant deficit in wages, and all of that now is success. Mr. Bennett also forgot to report his novelty to the doctor, i.e. a hot phone, in case a patient has a problem, you will be helped by a hot phone, but it's just a laugh, because when a doctor comes to the hospital, you have to pay for gasoline, medicines, and now you're going to get paid for a hot phone that doesn't exist. Why this farce, and who, and how much can be cheated? And in such a situation, the leadership of the area reassures the people, motivated by the objective process, but it shows that neither the country nor the new authority nor thought of giving a decent, equal life to all people. And for what the people need, and for what their troubles are. They only mentioned the people on the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Next up is Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u147	Anatoly Orzhachovskyy, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, voters. I'm forced to once again address the issue of protection of cultural heritage in Hersonian, in the state. As I analyze the latest actions and inaction of power, I conclude that something in the power of the Ukrainian elite has happened with memory, since on September 22, this year, government men have not even found the time to place flowers in the tombs of the guerrilla glory Heroes in Kiev. In the year of the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War, a memorial sign was destroyed for the liberation of the city of Zurich. Earlier in life, I had been able to inform law enforcement agencies on a number of occasions. Now I'm forced to draw the attention of the government, the public to the state of emergency and technicality of the art of national importance -- the Legendary Touchanka, in the city of Kahouka. Regrettably, my previous remarks by a colleague of Samuel did not have a positive effect except for the government’s descriptions of officials and the Herson government. The latter was unable even to determine her responsibilities, but she conscientiously repeated the reply of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine that it was the Kahovské misdemeanor’s business. A survey of the state of the Legendary Dot shows that its individual details and constructions are at the point of destruction. In the bronze elements of a sculptured group of horses, the cracks are apparent. They're also in the bronze shield, the base of the sculpture group -- the steel beams. Metal carcases are removed from the structure of the metal carcase by corrosion. The intense destruction of the Legendary Point complex has become possible due to the existence of natural factors and the lack of an adequate system of care in the years of independence, the use of irrigation land near a monument. In the wake of the monument’s condition, its historical value, the scientific institute, has produced the cost of engineering testing and well - organized territory. The cost of project work is estimated at 50,000 dollars. The total cost of restoration work will be about 500,000 dollars. There is no such amount in the budget of the city of Kahoka in the district council. War veterans, the Hersonian community, demand that the authorities urgently intervene in preserving the history of 1967 in honor of the glorious war history of the Ukrainian people. The failure to take timely action on the matter will result in further destruction of the complex and will result in trauma not only to the inhabitants of the Tavrian region but also to the immediate and distant borders. Given the architectural, artistic, national and patriotic significance of the memorial in the upbringing of many generations, we demand that the government, the executive power of the area, take into account the opinion of scientists and anticipate in the 2006 budget a subsidy not to carry out the restoration work of the monument. Otherwise, the population will give a proper assessment of the authority that ignores the law on preservation of cultural heritage. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u148	Thank you. Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Prepare Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u149	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished TV and radio listeners! As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was instructed by the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications to verify the information provided by the ZAT staff of the Ukrainian Passenger Service Centre on Rail Transport of Ukraine, Hotel Express. In carrying out this assignment, I associated with the members of the team of this company, who were very much asked to give their address to the Head of the Supreme Council. Please listen to him: "Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The closed-circuit company “Ukrainian Centre for Passengers in Rail Transport of Ukraine” has been successful in recent times, has in time contributed funds to the State Budget for State Property Rental, has been paying taxes properly, has paid wages to employees in good time, has taken steps to improve the surrounding area, raises the level of Chinese and city guests. Recently, however, all mental and unthinkable measures have been taken by Ukraine’s State Administration for the purpose of destroying our business. The Councilor-General of the ‘Urzalznice’ Bloodless has been openly stated that the Minister of Transport of the Red Cross wanted to create an entertainment facility in the city of the Ukrainian Centre for Passengers on Rail Transport. However, this is hampered by the fact that the hotel is in a long-term lease, which is why the latter proposes to terminate the rental contract of the Express Hotel by breaking the lease contract, actually leading to the liquidation of our business. The general shareholders ’ congregations rejected such a proposal, and persecution and threats of execution began. Infinite checks are being sent to the company, auditors of the Crossroads, the Holding Foundation, checking with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the transport police, the tax officers, firefighters and other control bodies. After the tests did not establish any violations, the actual capture of the hotel’s facilities began with the use of rail paramilitary protection and the use of watchdogs, which were harassed by the employees of our business and the correspondents who fixed the saviour. Ignoring the legal requirements to liberate the territory of our business in rented premises, locks break down, and doors are broken, which is a crime and are persecuted under the Law. Other legal requirements are simply ignored. Instead, there are threats of persecution at our address. The evidence of the abuse and abuse of office is found in the district police. Yet the Law is not written to criminals. Calls for action to comply with the requirements of the Law remain unresponsive, and claims remain uncontested. The illegal conduct of the advisers of the Ukrainian State Railway Administration and their supporters creates obstacles to normal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u150	Thank you. Leonid Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u151	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, at the request of the members of the Bukovina Gardeners' Association, I would like to read their address to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers. We agricultural workers in the garden sector, who in the near past were deeply concerned about Ukraine’s pride in the situation created in the fruit market. Working in extremely complex conditions, fuel-oil materials, fertilizers, plant protections, and mechanization are constantly forced to survive the absence of long-term credit. But despite this, the horticultural horticultural plants introduce modern intensive gardening technologies, grow new varieties, create jobs, fill state and local budgets. The produce we produce on our charitable land is estimated by the consumer to exceed the quality of the foreign. Under the conditions of small land, more and more want to restore the gardening industry to the level of world patterns, and we already have good results, as evidenced by the interest shown by specialists, businessmen from the countries of the European Union. Yet the destructive tariff and mythical policy that is being pursued in Ukraine puts our gardener at the brink of bankruptcy. In view of the fact that foreign fruits are imported, the value of which is higher than ours is due to State support, we are forced to work hard. In our view, the declarant remains a slogan to combat smuggling, which has become more sophisticated. It seems that gardening, especially intensive, is not comfortable in Ukraine’s dominant world. It is by our work that we create the future for our children and grandchildren, that we have put faith in your pre-election programs, and we are confident that you will soon do so again. But if our interests are not taken into account, you will not simply convince us of your sincerity. Do not test our patience or force us to use as a means of fighting for the interests of farmers of France, Spain, and other countries of the European Union. We want to work peacefully and be sure that we have the leadership of a nation that loves and cares for its people not only by slogans but also by concrete actions. We hope for mutual understanding, this requires not a simple time. This address is accepted at the Assembly of the members of the Intensive Gardening Association of Bukovina, taking into account the recommendations of the participants of the International Seminar on Intensive Gardening, which took place on 26 August 2005, with the participation of representatives from 17 regions of Ukraine and Poland and the Netherlands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-23-m0.u152	Thank you. Let's get this over with. I remind you that next week the national deputies are working in the districts. The plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on October 4. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
