ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:33]] There were 403 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Pak Vladimir Petrovich. Let us greet our colleague, wish him good health. Dear colleagues! Allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 16, 2005. Twenty-five issues of the agenda, 17 bills, 9 draft regulations and proposals by the President of Ukraine to two laws have been discussed. Nine laws have been passed, two bills have been drafted, five have been rejected, nine have been passed, and three have been rejected, and one has been postponed. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed in a new edition. Dear colleagues! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national MPs to make proposals and to announce requests, statements, and reports. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. And in the meantime, I'm going to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies; Mr. Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine for the improvement of highly qualified medical care for the benefit categories of the elective district 51. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:29]] For-64 Request not supported. Yurya BOJKA to the President of Ukraine on ensuring the right of national identification of Ukrainian citizens by restoring the record of nationality in the book of birth registration, birth certificates and passports. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:04]] For-55 Request not supported. SERGEY DOROGUANZOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the closure of the pedestrian movement on the street of the Bank’s city of Kiev. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the status of the courts of the Olijnik and Dustenk Associates. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the Red Automotive School of Public Education. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister for compensation from the State Budget for the expenses of the Open Shareholder Society “Werbowski” for the construction of a public education school in the village of Verbeuk of the Balkan region of Kharkiv. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the action taken by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in coping with the crisis situation of the Etalon plant. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister for the groundless liquidation of the State Committee on Veterans. CATHERINA SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures to regulate sugar prices. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister on State support for the fisheries sector. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on falsification and deliberate misrepresentation of facts regarding the activities of the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime in the Poltava region of Plujnik with a view to forcing him to be released from office by the Directorate of Internal Affairs in the Poltav region. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the violation of consumer rights by energy companies. A group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Budget Committee for the purpose of sending medical and pedagogical personnel to Ternopol on their own leave, and carrying out a review of the implementation of local budgets and information on the actual funding of the State budget expenditure for the first half of the year. [[HARAH, LESHIAN, COMAR]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, Biloczerkow City Head, for the completion of the repair of the driveway along the Yellow Street in the city of Bila Church. Mr Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the financing of the Open Shareholders Association “The Friendly Machine Plant”. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the receipt of salaries and other payments from the budget to the national deputies who have been appointed to positions in the Government and in the administration of the State and have failed to exercise their parliamentary powers. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister for the calculation of the pension for participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES, group II disabled. María MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the shore-building work on the Tis River in the village of Bustino Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Jurya BOJKA to the Prime Minister on the regulation of activities and the financing by the State of charitable institutions created by religious organizations. Sergia DOROGUNCOVA and Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the delay in financing the construction of the hospital's rehabilitation centre in Kiev on Smolenska Street. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the areas of Petrikowa district of Dnipropetrova. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the violation of the constitutional rights of pensioners, former employees of the Open Shareholders Association “Czerkaske Hymvolokno” in pension insurance for work in particularly harmful conditions. Oleg KARJOWA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the General Audit and Audit Authority on the violation of the legislation on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine in the conduct of tendering for the purchase of expensive materials for the production of textbooks and teaching manuals. Vassila BARTKIVA to Prime Minister, Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the dangerous ecological situation in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the construction of a new well in the village of Katerinovka Kremenicka district of Ternopil. Mr Boris ZAGREVA to the Prime Minister, Attorney-General, on the violation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine by officials of the Shaka District, Volin Region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on guarantees of the stability of the work of drug-using enterprises engaged in geological exploration. [[SINGER, LOBODA, MALINOVSKI]] Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Prime Minister on the moratorium on land removal and allocation. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister concerning the conservation of southern Ukraine’s forest plantations. Andrea POLITA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Odessa District State Administration, Odessa’s city head for the efforts of the city’s authorities to dismantle the city’s only monument, Volodymyr Lenin. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the transfer to the municipal property of the Grebinkov City Council of the Poltavian district of the fecal water pumping station. The Lebedev Valley to the Prime Minister on the reconstruction and expansion of Borispol Airport in order to increase its capacity. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers for the financing of the unfinished construction of the water dehydration station in the city of Brezne Plains. Anatoly of Rachansk to Vice-Prime Minister Mikola Tomenk, Attorney-General, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the State Tax Administration on the Disgusting Treatment of Children's Rights to Childhood on the example of the elimination of the puppet theatre in the All-Ukrainian children's health centre of Eupatoria. Mikoli KULČINSKI to Vice Prime Minister Mikli Tomenka for the threat of the elimination or eviction of the Poltava District Library for children of the name Panas Mirno. Jury CARMAZIN to Vice Prime Minister Mikolio Tomenka, Minister of Education and Science, Authenticity College of the Ministry of Education and Science for the violation of the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 31 December 2004 No. 1791 in the assignment of the scientific title "professor" at the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for the conduct of further investigation into the death of the ex-Minister of Internal Affairs, General Kravchenk. MICHELLA REDOVSKI to the Attorney General, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Head of the Council of Judges, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Security Service for the verification of the unlawful acts of individual judges by granting permission to listen to national MPs. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for unlawful arrest by officials of the Office for Combating Organized Crime, citizen Igor Rabbit. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General on the unbiased, biased, unilateral, and improper consideration of the civil case of the third group of Abwasin and the unfair decision of the judicial authorities of the district of Suma. Taras ČORNOVOLA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the Supreme Court for the charge of the sale of the courts issued by the President of Ukraine and his invitation as a witness for the bribery of the judge in the case of the legality of the privatisation of the “Criminals”. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the Board of Directors on the conformity of the current legislation with the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 440 of 11 June 2005 concerning the return of the package of shares of the Krivoristal combination. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the right of a citizen of Romanov as founder of a private enterprise of the “Collector” company, and the illegal actions of officials of the State Executive Service of the Johno-Frankow City Department of Justice. [[SAS, ZUBOV, CONSTANTINOV]] Alexander BONDARCHUKA and Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the decision of Kyivrada regarding the removal of the school's territory – boarding school No.14 on Radovny Street in Kiev for the construction of two 16-story residential buildings. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General about the violation of the rights to life of a disabled person and the Philippe group by the medical institutions of Kiev and the improper examination of his complaints. MICHAEL ZUBBI AND MICHALI GAPOČKI to the Attorney General for violations by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of the distribution of budgetary resources for the development of tribal affairs in birds. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General about the delay in the examination of the claims and petitions of a Scybinski citizen for the murder of her son. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General on the violation by the Attorney General of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of co-owners of the collective manufacturing and trading firm “Croclus” as manager of the enterprise. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on the investigation of corruption and other illegal acts in relation to the Hmelnicka factory of metal-press equipment Prigma Press. Gennady SAMOFALOVA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the verification of information published by Deputy Minister Fokinim on the involvement of businessmen in the social project of the Ministry of Interior and the legality of such activities. Yuri SOLOMATANA and Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney General on the legality of the criminal offence by the Public Prosecutor of the Luhansk Region concerning the citizen of Kirilov of the city of Lysichansk. Valerium OF THE LABEDIV AND THE YOURY OF THE ORBJECTION to the Attorney General on the facts of gross violation of the rights of members of the people, members of the local councils and citizens who took place during the session of the Shevchenkov District Council in Kiev. Viacheslava ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General for the prosecution of criminal cases brought against the former Dniprojergin City Head of Sweden. GREGORY BONDARENCA and Anatolia RACHANSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on illegal construction in the green area of the village of Szczytka in the Kyiv region. John MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General’s Office for the groundless cessation of investigations into abuses committed by the former management of the state’s environmental and natural resources management in the Zakarpatsk region. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the examination of the statements made by members of the Corestinian City Council of the Žitomir Region regarding human rights violations and the persecution by law enforcement agencies of members of the territorial community, officials of local self - government and the city’s head. John BOCOGO to the Attorney General for the verification of lease agreements for the entire estate complexes of state enterprises and other state property. John YVANCHO to the Attorney General regarding the misconduct of officials and deputies of the City Council in making decisions. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney-General on violations of the rights and legitimate interests of the citizen of the Republic of Poland, as well as the formal and bureaucratic treatment of the officials of the internal affairs authorities with regard to allegations of crimes and non-execution of the ruling of the Krukow District Court of the Poltava District on the application of security measures to the applicant. Mr. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Attorney General for the inaction of the Attorney General's Office regarding the appeal of the deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 1st call of Makar. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the investigation of the facts set out in the article “Who Needs Main Kampf” in the newspaper “Village News”. [[The Rabbit, the Storm, the Cauldron, and others]] MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Tax Administration for the Response to Crimes and Abuse of Tax Administration in the Chernigian Region. Igor ŠURMI to the Secretary of State on the closure of Banking Street for pedestrians — residents of nearby dwellings. Mr. Andria SKILLA and Mr. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Minister of Interior, Head of the State Customs Service, Head of the Administration of the State Border Service for the purpose of addressing the inhabitants of the village of Shegini of Lviv district about the inefficiencies in the organization of the crossing of the Ukrainian-Polish border. Mr. Jurya KARMAZINA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Attorney General, for the violation of the law by officials of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor’s Office regarding private entrepreneur Kuzmin. YEUGENA HIERNIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the legality of land allocation in the nature conservation reserve near the village of Guta Bogorodčany district to the citizens of Janukovič, Vishivanyku, Bruce. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the provision of disabled workers and a group of residents of the village of Stara Chortoria of the Žitomir Region by car with manual control and a wheelchair with electric power. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. Alexia KOZACZANKA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy on the ineffective use of the Odessa region’s State Integrated Trade Enterprise, the “Christian” manufacturing power and property of the branch No.18 “Saratian Wine Plant”. Vladimir ANISTUKA to Minister of Transport and Communications, Attorney General for the Protection of the State Enterprise Delta Lotzman and its branches. Olga HINZBURG to the Minister of Health for Epilepsy Medicinal Products. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the extension of investigations into fraud by officials of a subsidiary of the Ukrainian-Russian joint venture KMT. Valentina Anastasiaeva and Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Minister of Defence on discrimination in the pension security of the disabled and the group of citizens of Savenko's widow Heroy of the Soviet Union. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the payment of his pension in the Donetsk region of a veteran’s work with toilet paper. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Minister of Environmental Protection, for the allocation of funds for the construction of water dehydration stations in the village of Lubar of the Zitomir region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Justice concerning the violation of the law on the registration of the financial institution of the savings and credit association “Cox” in Kirovograd. VITALIA KORJA and SERGEY SHEVCHUKA to the Minister of Health for the Legality Check by the Ministry of Licenses and Permits for National and Unconventional Medicine. Ms. Vladimir MATVIEVA to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the consequences of the closure of secondary school No. 3 in the city of Ocakow of the Mikolai district. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Attorney-General, on violations of legislation by employees of the Labour and Social Protection Directorate of the People of the Regional District State Administration of the Poltavian Region. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Head of the State Committee for the Protection of Work for the Verification of the Legality of the Manufacturing of the Child Enterprise “Over the Dniestrom” of the Open Shareholder Society of the Lviv Ceramic Plant in connection with the sharp deterioration of the environmental situation in the populated sites of Piszna, Černica, Naditiki Mikolaiów Region of Lviv Region. Vassil BARTKIV to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the material and technical equipment of the Obolon School of Education in the valley region of Ivano-Frankow. Mikhail Kosiva to the Minister of Education and Science for Unsatisfactory Response to the parliamentary request for violations of legislation in the educational sphere of the town of Shahtarsk Donetsk. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Ministry of Defense for the involvement of members of the Ternopil garrison military to dismantle trading venues in the Ternopil matter market to persons who have been violated by criminal cases and contrary to the decision of the Ternopil City Council. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the review of the activities of the head of the Korean District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the region of Ravensk, in part of the abuse of office and violation of professional ethics. EUGEN HOURNIKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the effectiveness and legality of the use of the funds of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Fund for the Protection of the Environment and the activities of the district management of ecoresources. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the certification of passenger vehicles. Alexander TKALENKA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the disposal of toxic chemicals in the village of Tomarino in the Berislav region of the Hersonian region. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the improvement of the service of citizens at the train station of the Deaf of the Sumu district. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Minister of Justice regarding the failure to execute court decisions on the repayment of debts by the Ministry of Labour, carried out by a team of the 28th Chief of Staff in the city of Eupatoria. Paul QUICHANA to the head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on violations of language legislation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Sergey BICHKOVA and Boris HOT TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for the results of the inspections by the National Tax Inspectorate of the Kharkov District of the Ukrainian Research Institute of Fireworks of the Name of the Coastal Region. Mr. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration on the gravity of the settlement of payments for non-quality and unreceived housing services in Suma. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities concerning the tow truck with the construction of a capital repair of the apartment of invalid II group Derevyanka by the utility services of the Dniprovsky District Housing Authority of Kiev. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Head of the State Tax Administration regarding the formal replies of officials of the State Tax Administration in the Cherkas region to a parliamentary request for tax evasion and the legalization of the income of the Ukrainian-German private shareholder association Grafia-Ukraine. KORJA’S Vitaly to the Head of the Security Service for the Verification of the Corruption of Individual Officials of the State Tax Administration in Kharkiv Region. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Head of the State Highway Service on the condition of road traffic in the area of the Mikolai district of Lviv. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Court for failure to execute the decision to reinstate a citizen of Vojtov in the post of Starojadiv village head of the Czerniewec Region. SERGEANT BICHKOVA and Boris HOT TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for failure to execute judicial decisions by officials of the Specialized State Tax Inspectorate for the work of large taxpayers of the city of Kharkiv. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for refurbishment in a residential building on the street of the Malo-China Sportshall and children's rooms in saunas, restaurants. Valery PASTUTENKA AND VICTOR AWAY TO THE HEAD OF THE EQUAL REGIONAL COUNCIL ON THE LEGISLATION OF THE “PRESENTATIVE APPLICATION” BY THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SOUTH COUNCIL TO THE CHAIR OF THE EQUAL SECTOR November 30, 2004. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the city’s Kiev head, the prosecutor of Kiev, for the illegal transfer by the city council of Kiev to some citizens of land on the nonexistent Michurin Way. Efima FIXA and Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration for the provision of full information on the acquisition of land and the construction of land in the city of Jaremch Ivano-Frankiv district by the President of Ukraine. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General for the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Workers of the Open Shareholders’ Society “Micolayivcement” of the Lviv region, which is related to compensation for damage caused by occupational illness. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the abuse of construction of a high-rise office and residential complex on the streets of Saxagan and Pankovsky. Jury SOLOMATAN to the head of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation into the situation of poisoning a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, National Deputy Victor Yushchenk on the establishment of the true membership of samples of blood and biological substances that were analysed for the substance of dioxin in the case of poisoning a candidate for Presidentship of Ukraine, National Deputy Victor Yushchenk. Andrea POLIETA to the Head of DPA, Head of the State Customs Service, Head of the State Committee on Financial Monitoring, Head of the Board on the Crimes in Export of Product, Tax evasion, Financial Offences by the Management of the Open Shareholder Association “Dnihina” and Society with Limited Responsibilities “Science and Finance Company “Policy”. Mr. Alexander Tkalenka to the Head of the Hersonian City, prosecutor of the Hersson District, on the inaction of the leadership of the Hersson Mesquikonkam in the issue of the issue of the issue of the issue of property right of the Hersson Physic-Technical List. John BOKHO to the Kiev City Head for the gravity and artificial delay of the process of privatizing land areas by members of the Green Beetle Garden Society. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the political, economic and social arguments of the government's planned increase in gas and electricity prices. Andrea POLIETA to the Odessa city head for improving the living conditions of the first group of Cooper’s Irina Mikolayovna. Ms. Vladimir Lještenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the conformity of the current legislation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the verification of the actual vote in the election of the President of Ukraine. All requests, Your Honor, have been made. Only 111 requests have been made. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 20, Communists - 37, "Regions of Ukraine" - 11, SDPU - 7, People's Party - 3, Socialist Party - 7, Block Timoshenko - 7, Ukrainian People's Party - 12, Democratic Ukraine - 5, non-fractional - 2. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the speeches of the national MPs with statements, information, reports. On the board of the name of the National Deputies, please show. John the Rabbit, please, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u2	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Declaration by the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party on the prevention of coastal, river and sea destruction The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is concerned about the prolonged degradation of the natural environment and believes that the anthropogenic pressure on nature in Ukraine has reached a critical limit. Environmental problems in the country are caused both by the legacy of Soviet farming and by the neglect of the need to move to a stable environmentally balanced development in the present. One problem that does not find its solution and even deepens is the destruction of the shores of Dnieper and the Black Sea and the Azova Seas. According to monitoring, the length of the wreckage has increased from 2 to 5 times over the past 30 years. The shores at the Dniprov watersheds and up to 60 percent of the coastline of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas are being actively destroyed. The main reason for lowering the stability of the shores is the further increase in technological stress through the adoption and implementation of shortsighted and even criminal farm decisions. A clear example of such harmful activities is the recent artificial change in the company of the Leipzig Fairway on Dniper, which was headed toward the steep shore near the village of Sokirne Cherkaske district. These actions have resulted in accelerated destruction of the Dnieper coast and large landslides that threaten the village. In 2004, more than 12 meters [12 m] of coastline were destroyed, and in just the night from 28 to 29 April of this year, 15 meters [15 m]. It's a faction. At the time of such destruction, there is a threat of destruction of watersheds for the city of Cherkas, a factory building, and a village of Sokorne, which is 60 meters [60 m] away. Also in the sanatorium. In time, the destruction of the natural shore protected from flooding and submergment. Witness array. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party believes that increasing technological influence on coastal areas requires urgent adoption of a nationwide programme to strengthen the banks of the rivers and the coasts of the seas and their engineering protection. A project of an appropriate government programme developed by the Cabinet of Ministers was returned to the Supreme Council in 2004 for government development. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party calls on the Cabinet of Ministers to finalize the project of the current state programme and bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In general, we believe that solving the various problems of environmental degradation is only possible as part of Ukraine's new development strategy under the current model of the eco-economic economy and. Environmentally balanced development. Dear National Deputies! We recently had a parliamentary energy hearing here. No man has talked about environmental pressures, although we know that the construction of the Taslic AES will destroy a unique natural and historical cultural object, a landscape in the Mikolai district. So I urge you to pay attention to environmental constraints in any economic decision. Let us not look for simple ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u3	Lilia Grigorovich, the "Our Ukraine" faction is invited to the performance. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u4	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to extend my warm thanks to you, the higher legislative body of Ukraine, for yesterday's decision that you did not canonize the corruption roof of 150 in order to take the high-paying and high-ranking criminals into custody. Thank you. After that, I would like once again to thank the truly superior legislative body and the legislative position and the moral position. And that's why, after your decision yesterday, I came up with the idea of addressing you, Ukrainian national deputies, like the arbitral court. And I am addressing you, first of all, not as a Ukrainian national deputy, but as a citizen, as a Ukrainian and as a mother. This year my son graduated from the 11th class, graduated from the ordinary Ukrainian school in Kiev. But it's just an external form of this event. Because it's no secret that in all of our schools children speak Ukrainian on a break, in lessons that are taught in Ukrainian extremely minimally. And I want to show you, I've shown it endlessly to the joy of finishing school, showing my son's graduation tape. All the inscriptions the children made heartily, beautifully. But it's Russian. I want to show you my son's graduate today. Here's an 11th grade graduation, taught by such teachers in the city of Kiev. My dears, please tell me if my human rights are guaranteed. Have we ratified the human rights convention? Are my child’s rights guaranteed, or have we adhered to the Constitution? I'd like to ask, how do I show this album to parents, grandparents living in a Ukrainian village? They'll tell me: "Lila, but mine passed the Siberians to save this language and teach you. And you're in the city of Kiev, being a national MP, you couldn't keep the basic." And now I want to say a few words as a national MP. I hope you can hear me, Donetsk. This did not happen in Donetsk, it happened in Kiev. It's happening, it's unfortunately there. And as Ukrainian national deputy, I seem to be speaking here for the first time, but I'm speaking from the position of mother and man. And I didn't make any legislation on strengthening Ukrainianization, about special Ukrainianization of Donetsk, Luhansk or Crimea. But what I'm saying is that that disgraceful poster, the convention, the charter of language, it's from the wicked one. Because the great Russian Dostoyevsky said that if you don't love and feel sorry for your people, you can't love and pity anyone else. And I'm going to Parliament, to you people's deputies, like the arbitral court. And I'm going to address the end of this session. How should I ensure my child’s rights and the rights of children?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u5	Mikola Shershun, People's Party faction. Prepare Oreste Klimpus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u6	Mikola Shershun, People's Party faction. Dear Head, dear colleagues, the People’s Party faction is deeply concerned about the situation that has arisen in the area of capital construction. It's been six months since it's been running at the expense of state budget subsidies, not on the Chernobyl program, not at the expense of energy in 30 kilometers of AC. Reasons two: No funds are allocated and no tenders are allowed. In the first case, subsidies to date have not even been issued by the government, although all related issues have long been agreed upon in Kabul. The funding schedule for the construction of social objects in the 30km AES area, signed by the head of the energy plant Nedashkovski, is not carried out. For example, the Plain region alone did not receive more than 9 million dollars in June. Buried gas pipes lie on a dead floor, gasification is dead, and 90 percent of them are built, but they are not built, like in villages. My district. The same fate and town for orphans in the Plains, where nearly 10 million bracelets were won last year. We also lose objects that the state finances under lower conditions. For example, a school in Ostroz in Plainsland, a part of the state of 400,000, will contribute twice as much to the social investment fund, but after the state has fulfilled its obligations. Another stumbling block is the ban on Kabmin from conducting tenders for the purchase of work at budget costs. We got a locked circle of problems. The cost of construction does not stand out. And if they are, the ban is in effect and they cannot be used. And time flies, most objects were to be put into service either before the start of the school year or before the start of the heating season. Only urgent steps by the government can remedy the situation, for the tender procedure involves a three - month delay, a delay. Therefore, the faction of the People's Party calls on the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, to immediately lift the ban on tendering for budgetary costs and to consider the reduced procedure for their execution, to make a decision on the capitalization of State budget subsidies, to oblige NAC Energoat to adhere to the funding schedule for work in the 30km AES zone. And finally. Turning to the National Budget Act of Ukraine, article 51, paragraph 3, states that the distribution of funds of the said subsidy is made on the proposals of Ukrainian national deputies, consistent with the relevant local authorities and local self-government authorities, not the other way around, as the Ministry of Economics is trying to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u7	Orestes Dmitrovich Klimpus, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. I want to take advantage of the opportunity from this rostrum today before the Day of Medical Workers, which we will be marking by the whole state on Sunday along with the great religious holiday of the Holy Trinity. I would like to welcome all those working in the field of health care and their professional holiday to wish them success, happiness, and happiness. I mean, we remember you, we know and we appreciate all of our factions of "The One Ukraine" and all the people's deputies, too. We, the faction, have passed a law on the special order of health-care providers, which provides for the level of payment to health-care workers during the retirement period to the level of government officials. So once again, I welcome you all, and I congratulate you and wish you all the best and great luck. For the rest of the time, please hand over Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u9	Vadim Gurov, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u10	Vadim Gurov, Kribass, Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I will not talk about the situation in which the mining and metallurgical complex has been felt, as the whole country knows. Three meetings of the special commission have already been held. Yesterday, two and a half hours ago, there was a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue, and there were conclusions. Most importantly, we are already working on a law that we have not even included in the agenda. I therefore request Law 7622 to include it on the agenda on Tuesday and to consider it on first reading. Thank you for your attention. Act 7622.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u11	7622. Okay. The Secretariat, please take into account. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready to pull the strings instead of Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u12	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I do not think that today is a new and unexpected topic of national responsibilities for ministers, other responsibilities with the compatibility of a parliamentary mandate. Today, representatives of the new government are violating 78, 120 articles of the Constitution, the Law on Ukrainian State Service, the Law on Corruption. In view of the failure to comply with the requirements of non-compliance with other types of activity in accordance with part four of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article four of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies, articles 1.6 and 4.1. 7 The Governor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine refers to the Head of the Supreme Council for the suspension of payments in respect of the execution of duties by the following national deputies: Mr. Vladislav Anatoliovich, the Governor of the Chernigian Region; Artemenko, the Chief of Staff of the Zaporozhye Region; Boyku, the Chief of Staff of State; Balozy, the Chairman of the Zacarpathian State Administration; Bondarchus, the Director-General of the University of Bondar; Bondaru, the Chairman of the Volinian Administration; Guru, the Mayor of Odessy; Jerovsky, the Governor of the State of Justice; Jovakia, the Chief of State of State of Justice, the Chief of State of Justice, the Chief of State of Justice, the Chief of State of Justice, the State of Crimea. [[united]] I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, the honorary head of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" party: show political will, if they don't form parliamentary powers, release them from the positions you've assigned them to. Victor Andryovich, if you want this law, the faction of united Social Democrats will write you this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u13	Oleg Tagnibok, non-fractional. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u14	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow national MPs, journalists, listeners! Imagine a situation that, say, under Moscow, there's a military memorial somewhere in Borodino with the inscription "Dead Soldiers of the Napoleonic Army in the Battle of the Motherland." This is absurd, and imagine the reaction of the Russian side. We have this possibility in Ukraine. I would like to pause for a moment from the story of the opening of this monument to the Eaglets in Lviv. There was the Ukrainian-Polish War of the 1820s. On the one hand, the Ukrainians fought, defending the Western Ukrainian People’s Republic, and on the other hand, the Poles fought, occupying Ukraine. There were Entente troops on the side of Poland. And now in this situation where 24 numbers are going to open up this pantheon, the inscription on Polish graves is going to be: "Here lies a Polish soldier who is greedy for his Fatherland." What was a Polish soldier doing in Ukrainian territory? Today the Poles are laughing, saying that it turns out that Lviv is a Polish city. Which Lviv Polish city, if Lviv was founded by the Ukrainian prince Daniel Galician and named after his son Lev. We are not opposed to honoring the memory of the dead, to honor them, but there must be some kind of national dignity, a society. Let's say, "Polish soldiers who died in the Ukrainian-Polish war." And a dot. Why write that they "killed in the struggle for the Fatherland"? Here in our Ukrainian territory. And in that situation, there's actually some provocation going on. This provocation came from the Polish side, and our Ukrainian authorities supported it. In fact, the hands were twisted by members of the Lviv City Council, who had not yet been provoked by the Kuchmew regime. And now I want to address Mr. President. Mr. President, you see, this situation is actually provoked, even if the political parties are called against it, but the inevitable vandalism, which you and I will then have to blush before Europe and the whole world. Because Western Ukraine still remembers very well what Polish differences were. And so, dear society, I would like to address the President today: Stop this act of affront to the dignity of the Ukrainians, do not insult the memory of the Ukrainian soldiers who died protecting the Ukrainian land. We must immediately stop the process of national humiliation. We have no right today to provoke any misunderstandings. The Poles expressed their wish -- and as a result, Ukraine agrees to anything. But let us have some dignity and national pride! I hope that by 24, this problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u15	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Melnik instead of Samowolski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u16	Dear national MPs, dear radio listeners, voters! Today, on the eve of the Professional Day of Medical Workers, with whom I welcome all medical personnel, I would like to inform you that I have received a call from a group of health workers in Poltava that the law enforcement authorities have not long since been detained and arrested by the Chief of Health Services of the Poltava Department of Public Health, Victor Petrovich Lisak. It shows that this is a deliberate, politicized case, biased by the legal authorities in our country, as it goes throughout the country. Dear friends, honourable President and ministers who are involved. You're not hunting them! That's not what you're planting! That slogan you used to say, "Word should be in jail!" It's not exactly about people like Victor Petrovich Lisak. I've already talked about three days of planting Kuchma, there's something to plant, and then people will take your action, and then people will see that you're really fighting banditry, fighting injustice in our country. Sit down, Dusty, even though he's in high government office right now, but wherever he goes, all over his business. Everywhere, people are groaning about what they are doing. Of his actions. Why don't you? And you're just thinking about what happens when you put these regulars in jail. A person who participated in the liquidation of the Chernobyl 2 category, pre-heart attack, and did not shake hands with a police officer who was handcuffed to this citizen. He's still in the hospital. Dear friends! Surely we all need to settle down here, as we do against the approval of the judges and here, we need to stop this genocide together. Although for justice's sake, I have to say there's a good thing. Some even see through. You see, even those who sat and laughed a year ago when someone blocked the rostrum today normally block the rostrum, protest normally. I loved that Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk had seen it, too, when he realized what he had done in the desert because they were doing it in the desert. You know who did the wrong thing, but if Leonid Krawczuk realized that that was exactly the result of the fact that the party's Paradise and Rounds were closed in 1991. Now, Leonid Makarovich, you get that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Yes, Melnik Mikola Eutychiyovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Belarus instead of Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u18	Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners! Revolutionary uplifts, enthusiasm, mass energy, romanticism all these, unfortunately, things are unheard of. The political capital, acquired by the leaders of the orange revolution, is truly priceless, but impeccable. And it would not be desirable for the politicians behind the people to allow themselves to be deceived in their expectations. Everyone knows that the people on the stage of Maidan were fighting for power, and they were doing it to now confront the President, get in the way of him and get rid of his job. People stood on the Maidan for the authority of a high moral, honest, true, authority in which politics should be pure from clan business. How, then, did you, Victor Andryovich, put Ukraine’s human resources policy in place for a man named Peter Prashenko, who should not do so under any other circumstances than the normal functioning of a public car? Do you, Victor Andriyovich, not see that Prashenko is turning Ukraine into his fatherland and is not thinking at all about your authority, the authority of the state. You, Victor Andryovich, have criticized similar practices in the past, promised that businessmen in the seventh generation cannot be in political power, especially sitting on two chairs. Sadly, Peter Alexiovich sits on two chairs, and who will prove that he does not use those places to increase his capital? So, Victor Andriyovich, Political Duster, Business Duster. These are not rhetorical questions for the electorate. He is interested in how and why it happened that Dusty does everything and everyone instead of doing what is prescribed by law. So my question is really rhetorical. He was not inherited from his grandfather, his great - grandfather, and thanks to his talent and sophistication, the Dust family has sugar and little. enterprises, car tractor factories, hundreds of tractors, grain and sugar combines, shipbuilding plants, tens of thousands of acres of land, and it also needs hundreds of millions of dollars of capital. And this list can and can continue. Then, as far as the hands of Peter the Orange differ from those of Pinchuck the Blue. Why the first is power without borders, and the second is suspected of criminal offences. Dear Victor Andryovich, what difference does it make? Where's the truth? Why wait for our electorate?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u19	Oleg Belarus, Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare Lechchenka instead of Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u20	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies and citizens of Ukraine. I'm speaking on behalf of three factions: BUT, "Our Ukraine" and the Ukrainian People's Party. I was asked to express our deep concern about the recent situation in Parliament. The government has introduced some 70 bills aimed at implementing the President's programme and the Government's action programmes. But only 7. This situation is a consciously organized blocking of government bills and government action programmes. Sadly, many of these bills have been rejected in general and forever. Where is our Parliament going, or is it working for the people, the Ukrainian people? We have with you, honourable national deputies, a decision to cooperate with the Government and Parliament. First Deputy Prime Minister of China regularly sits in Parliament's Conciliation Council. The Prime Minister and the head of the Supreme Council hold joint meetings with the leaders of the factions and the committees. And that doesn't work out very much. The situation with the legislative activity of Parliament is deteriorating, and a large group of WTO laws have failed. A group of customs laws failed. We need to mention the shared responsibility of Parliament and everyone without excluding factions. Apparently, the time has come, a high time to sign an interfractional agreement on the cooperation of most of the factions of Parliament in support of the President's program and the government. We call for the creation of such a consolidated majority of parliamentary factions. We turn to all factions and, above all, to our friendly factions: to resolve this issue immediately. We ask the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the head of Parliament to support this productive initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Prepare for Sulkovsky’s dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u22	Vladimir Lešchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovščina, interfractional parliamentary association for the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia "Zubr". Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected voters. Allow me to inform you of the outcome of a very important event in the life of the Slav peoples of the First Council of the International Union of Public Associations of Slavian Keys, which took place last weekend in the town of Tver of the Russian Federation. The common desire of the brotherly Slavic peoples of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia and a number of other countries to unite. It is the natural response of self-defence, the survival of a complex period in the history of the world's civilization of comprehensive globalization. And no matter how much the political and financial circles of the West try to separate the Slavs, weaken them, and subjugate them, they will not succeed and will never succeed. Most peoples of Ukraine, for example, favour an alliance of independent States of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, for the establishment in their territories of a single economic space with the participation of Kazakhstan, against the accession of our country to NATO. The current authorities have to consider this. A united initiative to promote the spiritual and moral revival of the Eastern Slav Orthodox peoples, to preserve their cultural, historical identity, to strengthen a single confessional space, to simplify the positions of Slav civilization in the international arena was born in mid-2003 on the twerk land of the east of Volga. Its great interest was expressed by Belarus, Bulgaria, Russia, Serbia, Montenegro, Ukraine. This initiative was supported by the members of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus. Leadership of the Standing Committee of the Federal State of Belarus and Russia, trade unions, a number of authoritative public organizations. The first Council was attended by 14 delegates from Belarus, 87 Russia, eight Ukraine, one from Serbia. Members of parliaments of these countries have prevailed, including two representatives from the Parliamentary Association of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zubr. The Council considered the admission to the International Union of Social Organizations of Slavian Keys of a number of collective members, the approval of missions, the programme of action of the Union, the election of governing bodies. The President of the International Union of Social Organizations, “Slavian Keys”, was Mr. Torshin Aleksandr Porfirjevic, Vice-President of the Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. Co-Chair of Zabolota Sergey Makarović, Vice-President of the House of Representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus. For Ukraine, the post of co-chair remains vacant for the time being. The People's Deputies of Ukraine, Grachev and Lechchenko, have already been elected to the Union. We believe that the decisions of the Council will contribute to the unification of the processes of the Slavs for the benefit of our peoples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski. Dear colleagues, in response to dissatisfaction, all the necessary documents have been prepared. Prepare Shurmi for the same reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think it's not only up to me today, it bothers all the national MPs that we are as the Head of the Supreme Council under the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we have almost every day to read and ask our questions about the grave violation of the Constitution and the law of Ukraine in Ukraine. You're going to read them. We have a mandate to check with the Attorney General's Office, without exception the ministries and offices of Ukraine, and ask the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister. But of all this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today we see these organs coming up to this test not just on one side, on the surface, just making fun of the questions of the national MPs and practically confirming it. Here's an example: "Dear Paul Ignatiusovich" gives me the answers that were asked on 20 and 22 April of this year about the situation that took place in the educational field of Saarnin, Kostopil, Strotsky, Goshtan district and so on in the Plain region. [[Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine]] It is established that the dismissals of employees of education authorities and educators to which you refer are partly to take place, and so on. They say that the head of the Saarnin Education Department of the Lavor Reich has been appointed, in violation of the requirements of the appointment and discharge of heads of administrations, departments, other structures, departments, and so on. And what do they write at the end? Indeed, it is established that the initiatives of the heads of the Saarninski and other heads of administration are being largely eliminated by lying, political pressure from the positions of school principals and so forth, doctors. And here's what it says at the end: the results of the education management check. [[This is signed by Minister Nikolainko]] Mr. Nikolaynka, what are you doing? But we're the only ones in your faction and in your party, we hope that you're best and just. You write that all these violations are in place, and take immediate steps to stabilize the personnel situation, please ask the district administration to take action. This raises the question: Similarly, this district administration, led by Basil Red, performs miracles there! So I'm addressing, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you, what we need to do here, so that we don't torture you in vain, and for any benefit, we need to check a number of answers to the requests of the deputies in charge of the Attorney General's Office, led by individual deputies, to verify a few facts and to bring to justice those bodies that check our questions for no use at zero, zero-time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u25	Igor Šurma’s dissatisfaction with the answers and the fact that all documents required under the Rules are prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u26	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Not only was society in Ukraine, not just the public, not only the European community, but world society has always been concerned about the level of bribery and corruption in the Supreme Council. And the fact that we're proving bribes, getting bribes has always been a problem. On March 29th, in a live broadcast of "Double Evidence" to the study "1+1", the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, he was the Ukrainian National Deputy Poroshenko published information about what he had to bribe. I asked the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to clarify in the living, working territory of Ukraine the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, when, where, to whom and for what he was bribed, why was this subject not considered under article 369 of the Criminal Code? I received a note saying that the prosecution is being investigated. From April 23 to today, there is no answer. And it's absolutely no surprise to me, because Peter Prashenko, I call his name specifically to be the national MP who is supposed to be in the hall today, and I'm denying everything I'm saying. Today, Peter Prashenko has the potential to influence and pressure the Ukrainian Security Service, the judicial authorities, the power structures, and this does not cause concern for the President of Ukraine. I want to say there's not enough compatibility here, there's still a great example of bestiality. I would like to bring to Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, the godfather of the President, who is not taking the example of how to do things to his relatives and not to frame the President, just as Mrs. Bilozer, Minister of Culture, has done, and has given her authority, that there is a law specifically prepared for him, a draft law on nepotism. This law will be dedicated to Peter Alexiovich Dust. And I think that if it were the President's political will and the political will of the Party -- the People's Union of Ukraine -- they wouldn't be allowed to have their political opponents put the subject on a daily basis through the media into space and into society, because we're ashamed of them, so we're raising the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Allow me, if you don't mind, to respond to a statement made by three factions, because it was the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask if you'll allow us to publish the results of the vote for the government bills. And then we're going to see who's opposed to the government and who's failing these bills and then we're going to be worried that Parliament isn't working today. I would like the MPs, even as high as the leaders of MPs and factions, to humiliate the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to publish the annotations of those laws and the quality of those laws that are proposed. The Supreme Council has not considered or will not look at butterflies - the Supreme Council should consider the official documents. [[Applause]] Third moment. I would like ministers to come to the Supreme Council, not at the level of the tenth deputy minister, and to argue the position of the government. Then the Supreme Council will make a decision. [[Applause]] It's the fourth time. I ask that they publish when these laws have passed, 70, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council is not going to be a fire team, then the government has to send documents directly to the President to sign them. And if they did today, and tomorrow the Supreme Council should accept these documents, I don't think I will. I would like to stress once again that the situation in Parliament is not improving, but is the principle that Parliament is a parliament. He proved this during the trials we experienced during the electoral campaign. And finally, last. If the honourable colleague is struggling to create the majority, when the issue was being raised, I told the President of Ukraine, "Then we should return to these offices other people who know how to create the majority. I want every MP to have their hands twisted and to sign about creating a majority." And finally, the last. If someone has a very large itch to create a majority in Parliament, to swerve Parliament, then all the portfolios should be allocated. And they divided the country into three political forces, and they want Parliament to stand for other political interests today. I'm sure that won't happen. Parliament will be Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u28	I didn't call her last name. No, you can't. Dear colleagues, we passed a law with you to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act of 2005. If you remember, it was military fuel. But when we accepted the document, we allowed some inaccuracies in line with the current budget. We need to clarify. I would ask you to briefly inform the First Deputy Chief of the Committee, Ludmila Paulovna Suprun, and we have made a decision, because that can only be done by the Supreme Council. We cannot make technical adjustments without the decision of the Supreme Council. Please, Ludmila Pavlovna, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. When the law was passed on The amendments to the State Budget Act regarding the provision of the Ministry of Defence expenditure are one of the articles, namely, article 45, which we have set out in such an editorial. It has many points, more than 60, but when we passed the law itself, it was done the following: in article 45 we left only one 54 items with you, and all of the points from 1 to 53 actually fell out of the text. So there's a request for us to confirm the technical remedies that apply to the following. First. The changes we have endured relate exclusively to parts and articles, articles, and figures that were in the law. We only write one thing. Instead of putting it in this article, we write: Part One and Article Two of this article. And the second. Instead of Article 45 in the editorial, we write "Article 45, paragraph 54, in such an editorial." It's going to be an exact technical legal order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I ask you to vote in favour of such amendments so that we can pass this law on to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:09:30.]] For 348 Decision taken. On behalf of the Ukrainian national MP, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would very much like to ask you today to consider a ruling that was registered yesterday under number 7675 on the celebration of the Lassie Ukrainian Theatre's 80-year-old anniversary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! There is a draft decree, 7675, on urgent measures for the preservation and development of the National Academy Theatre of Russian Drama, named forests of Ukraine in relation to the 80th anniversary of its establishment. What would you think about that? But then we have to vote, put it into the order of the day. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council Order, registration number 7675, for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:11:07]] For 307
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u33	Decision taken. I then ask Valerie Gabrieline to brief this document. I'd like to ask briefly, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u34	Dear friends, this year the Forest Ukraine Theatre will open its 80th season. Well, if you imagine: How can a person live to be 80 years old, what hard and hard work is this? What about the theater? If the theater does 5 performances, 5 performances, 5 premieres within a year. And in every show, only five people will be employed -- it's already 2,000 human destinys played in front of the audience. Joy, pain, bitterness, passion, everything is in the theater. Lesi Ukrainians have always witnessed the highest culture and dramaturgy, the theatre has worked and created such great directors of the modern world: both Warpahovsky and Nellyvod, and Hohlov. The theater had amazing artists: Lavrov, Halatov, Luspekaev, Borisov, Majuga, well, it is impossible to list them. The theater is a daily feeling that when a person comes, he gets that feeling and then carries it inside forever. And that stays with a man forever. So today's bill, I would very much like us to think and think about all the people who worked at the theater. About all the people who visited the theater. The viewers who have been raised by the theater for many years. Today I realize it's not easy. A lot of things are complicated, but I think the importance of the theater, its need for every single human life, is great. And in my view, the concept of spirituality in today's life must be very clearly defined -- it is more done and born in the theater itself. You can fight, you can reproduce, but you can't live without love, you can't live without good. Because love and hate are two equally strong feelings and must be used with care. I would like you to vote in favour of this bill, help the theater, congratulate it and make its life in the future much happier, easier and more pleasant for our viewers, and more useful for the people we work for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, there are questions before. Dear colleagues, let Yuri Anatoliyovich ask a question, we vote, we need to have an understanding in Parliament. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I respect the theater. The point is that this project was not handed out to the deputies. I'm paying attention to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, an undisbursed project we're putting to the vote and an unreadable project. Now I've contacted the computer, and I'm explaining that it says, "Recommend to the President not to interfere, and so on and so forth." That's what it says. I don't have it on my hands yet. So I'm asking you, first of all, do you think we can break the rules like this, even for a beautiful woman, for your sake, I respect you very much. Well, let's see if we can see the project so we can see if we're working within the Constitution. You understand whether we have the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on this issue, or whether it corresponds, in fact, to the Constitution. Tell us, please, that I do not yet remember the case, but we have already asked the first question of the order of the day. I draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council to the inadmissibility of such actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, perhaps. Valeria Gabrielna. Dear colleagues, maybe this way, I'll read this document now, okay. Valeria Gabrielna, you can sit down, I'll read it. One moment, dear fellows. I mean, this is a Parliament that on November 27th made such a decision that we today have the opportunity to talk about it, and again it has made such a decision. Then you showed your activity. And then you didn't know how the question would be solved. Let us discuss these problems in a calm manner. I'm reading, I'm going to read, Your Honor, your decision, you're going to make a decision, I'm going to read, I'm going to ask you. In connection with the 80th anniversary of the founding of the National Academic Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukrainiana and with the purpose of its preservation and development, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. First. To recommend that the President of Ukraine take immediate measures to stop the months-long unwarranted intervention of law enforcement agencies, officials, executive authorities in the production and creative activities of the team of theatres. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prohibits any alienation of property, privatization of premises, as well as the land areas used by the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine. Consider the issue of preserving the creative team and the artistic leadership of the National Academic Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine and ensuring the creative team's right to decide their own manufacturing and creative issues. Obliging the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to comply with the requirements of legislation regarding the prohibition and intervention of creative activities of operators, to stop the constant efforts of baseless dismissal from the administrative and artistic functions of the theater. To be foreseen in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 the goal of the National Academic Theatre of the Russian Drama of Forest Ukraine is to complete the construction of the small stage, the theatre and the production and construction workshops, as well as the construction of repair works, and the purchase of the necessary theatre equipment. Obligation of the Kyiv City State Administration to resolve the issue of the transfer of buildings and buildings, which has been occupied since 1926 by the National Academy Theatre of the Russian name Lesi Ukraine, from municipal to state property, and to establish the right to use the land used by the theater. Use it. I'll read it to the end. I'll finish you off, my dear fellows. Taking steps to perpetuate the memory of prominent theatre performers, the parishes of the Ukrainian Theatre, which were founded and worked at the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine. Inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the implementation of this decree in October 2005. Here's a project. Sign up for the show, sign up. Sign up, then from the committee. You'll be speaking from the committee at the end. I'm telling you, you're on the committee. First let the MPs say it, and then you sum up the point of view, I'm asking. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, microphone, please. Take five minutes to exchange your thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u38	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences and fans of the Russian theater called Lesi Ukraine, I just want to confirm once again that Ukrainian culture has a beautiful theater in the person of such a creative group, and we all love and support this theater. But to make such an absurd decision, it just made me feel so indignant. Well, you can't do that without handing out documents, so read that you have to do it, you have to do it, you have to do it. What do we accept? It was recently the 70th anniversary of the National Union of Ukrainian Writers. So I was able to get an approximate document so that Kuchma would never touch the Medvedchuk. We have no right to accept such a document. And then, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we often do not get involved in our problems. Let's say we celebrate Maxim Rilski's wedding there or Ulas Samchuk. They voted for it, they didn't. But there's the Ministry of Culture, so let it deal with these issues. You win the court, you get Reznikovich back, everything happens in the right circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u39	Sergey Drogunzov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u40	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I don't know what the cheese boar is about is about a normal draft decision, which is essential for our Ukrainian culture, which includes not only a basic Ukrainian culture, a Russian culture and a Crimean Tatar culture and so on and so forth. You already know we have a multinational state! And no one there is obliged to the President to care for a well - known cultural actor who has just given a speech! It's a recommendation, it's a normal reference to the President, it's a normal reference to the government, it's a normal reference to the Ministry. I see no reason not to consider the matter or to resolve it. I think we're going to make a positive decision, and you're going to demonstrate yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u41	Matvienkov, please, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u42	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I would like us to reject the fact that we are here to throw away our emotions and the political passions that surround this issue and look at one thing: spirituality today is indeed in a very difficult and difficult situation. People who have prepared projects that have expressed their views can understand that they are now fighting for the right to work, the right to carry beautiful, the right to raise young people, the right to work with people, and the right to bring art to people. We've got thousands of people today, young people in the back yard using drugs, doing things that we don't understand. Indeed, the school of culture is an art school. That's why there's a proposal. There are no, so to speak, mandatory factors. Proposal of a recommendation. There is a proposal for this order to be adopted and the action of the persons to whom it is addressed is to be taken or not to take a decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u43	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to what the draft decree says. So, first, to ban any alienation of property. What's wrong with us being at the theater, saying we don't have to take the property that he owns and privatize the premises that he owns? Further, the proposal that the 2006 draft budget should take into account targeted support for the theatre. What's wrong with that? Next, commit the local city authority to transfer the respective areas and territories from the municipal to the State-wide property. What's wrong with that? And last of all, what's wrong with wanting to perpetuate and call on the outstanding artists who worked in this theater? Well, in the end, my dears, these are basic things that say that someone in this country needs a culture. So let's prove that at least in this case, she's good for us and we're ready to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u45	No, no, no, wait, wait. We still have Eugene Kirilchuk. Just a minute. And then Paul the Silent. Dear colleagues, please. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u46	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There were good criticisms. I'd sign every word of our fellow folk artist, she'd say a lot about the theater. But there is a procedure, there is order. And if we did. If we've put the day in order. Don't make any noise, or I'll ask for extra time!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u47	Calm down, everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u48	There's one point.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u49	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u50	The Budget Committee should be counted. There is no financial basis for how much to build, for what to build, where to take the money, how much it takes — five million or 50 million. Well, nobody's ever made that decision. That's why I'm suggesting that we put it into the agenda -- let's put it off so that we can spend the week and the Expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Paul Silent. Dear colleagues, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party I asked Valérie Gabrielne to address the committee, which I did not consider, to the greatest regret, this problem. This problem concerns not just one theater but the whole theater area in Ukraine. And there is no doubt that all these problems need to be solved in a complex way, not by providing some separate benefits for one, or even a well - deserved theater, in which the entire school of the Correspondents actually worked and which today have huge acquisitions. And I'd like us not to replace and create this image of the Politburo that has to solve these issues today in violation of the procedures and rules that we have in place, only in violation of the Theatres and Theatres Act. I want all the land to be passed on to the theaters, but not only to the forest of Ukraine: to the theatre of Frank, and to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, let's go through the procedure! Again, I want to say that the performances are over by the deadline. Paul silently represented the committee, and he spoke. So, please, come on. There's a man on record at this point, and he's going to be the national deputy, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, and we're going to be determined. Everyone, calm down, please. Well, it's okay, everything's going according to the Rules, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I fully support the challenges raised by the conservation and development of the academic theatre of the Russian national drama Lesi Ukraine. I'd like us to support all the same problems all in one theater in Ukraine in the same way. I'd like that. I am addressing the appropriate committee of Paul Silent. Let's support all of them in one theater and include all of them in one theater. One. The other one. I firmly oppose the violation of the Constitution, in particular article 19 of the Constitution, which stipulates that all the authorities of the State act on the basis and within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And that's definitely why. We write down "commit the Kyiv City State Administration to urgently resolve the transfer of buildings and buildings that have occupied the national theatre from municipal to state property since 26." Is that calculated somewhere? Do we have an Omelchenka response? We looked at her, asked Kyivrada's opinion? We are obliged to do so by law. We didn't do anything. The other one. "To oblige the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to abide by the requirements of legislation." Thank God! I'm just trying to make sure everyone's okay. As far as the ban is concerned. It goes on to say, "In the production, creative activity of the subject to stop the constant efforts of baseless dismissal from the administrative and artistic leadership of the theater." Under the law, according to the law! - the Ministry has certain rights and we can't prohibit these rights from carrying out the Supreme Council's decree because we gave these rights by law. How can we do this? Well, that's the end of it. It recommends that the President of Ukraine take steps to ensure that law enforcement authorities and officials are involved. Just like that. In the middle of the city, on Bogdan Hmielnicki Street, two floors are just rented -- it's all called groundless interference. [[repeat]] And I always have a question -- what's the value of that? And to the end. I'd like to make it clear that lobbying isn't just in the economy, it's in culture, it's in science, it's around lobbyism. When he's a healthy lobbyist, when we lobby for the interests of the Ukrainian people and for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, it's normal. Such a determination requires substantial work. We put it in the agenda, let it draw the conclusions of the committee one, two, and three. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u55	Andrew School, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u56	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that, in fact, a decision in the Supreme Council is rarely taken out of the voice. You can make exceptions, you can don't make them, but in this situation it's about trying to substitute concepts. 80 years of theater activity, 80 years of theater is a weight, an honorable and outstanding date. I don't think there's a national MP in this room who would be against celebrating a similar date. But the first items of this regulation are clearly printed and extracted from another context: stop checking the theater. This was the subject of consideration by the relevant Supreme Council commission, several dozen references on this subject, and it was proved that the theatre hostel located in the center of the city was illegally leased to a private enterprise with the right to ransom. And that was proved. This was said by the director of the theater on the appropriate commission, where he stated that this was done in connection with the fact that it was not possible to maintain the room. What difference does it make how this was done? Kyiv's Attorney General's Office checked. How can we, which we have the right to point out in a decree that is dedicated to an 80-year-old theater, not to carry out or perform checks? So I want to be very and very careful not to alienate government property. But the state property is already alienated there because it is already purchased from the dormitory and no longer belongs to the theater. So there should be checks, there should be proof of compliance with the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. Nor do law enforcement authorities need guidance, not even the Supreme Council for their activities. And so, for me, this is a bony thing to include in the beautiful next paragraphs. Count the budget committee, it's okay. To be able to work fully at the theater, there's a land plot -- it could all be. But I would suggest to both the author of the rulings, and to the relevant committee to dissociate from this decision are completely incompatible with the same name of the thing. There's nothing here that's been said about Reznikovich. It's not a theater, it's one person. I want everyone to understand that. So we're going to support the theater, and the lobbying, the political, the problem of the state is that Reznikovic sold part of it, there's no one. That's the problem with the D.A.'s office, that's all. That's why I'd like to, no, the court proved it because the D.A. filed a case. The court proved only that it was unlawfully dismissed. So I want to say that in this situation we've put order in the day and enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u57	Yes. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, and Nadrag, and that's it. It's short.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u58	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovva Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a very clear statement, let's say my position, in any case, no one has the right to speculate that this is the theater of the Russian drama. On the other hand, I would also like to remind the radio audiences who are hearing us that we have in Ukraine if I am not mistaken for 38 or 36 Russian - speaking theaters, or so - called bilingual theaters. And it would be very appropriate for us to ask the Supreme Council a question before our cousin Russia that either one Ukrainian national theater should be in Russia, especially Moscow. He's gone. But that's a very different question. That's a very different question. I understand my colleague and the wonderful actress of Ukrainian actresses, although Russian-speaking-Clocked, I deeply appreciate her creative work. And I understand that she wanted to do something for the theater that really got into a scandalous situation. And I wouldn't be happy with all these layoffs and all this scandal around the theater. But we can see for ourselves that there is a legal way. The Reznikov has been reinstated, the court has reinstated him as an artistic director, and it's fine. And I think the minister here should step down, because there's a law, there's a right. That's why I think that this document, which is presented, with very good intentions, is actually very invalid. We have no right. Look what we can, whatever we accept, predict when preparing the draft State Budget Act to anticipate the funds. We'll take the budget. Please make an offer, I'll vote for it. But I just got back from Kirovgrad, and I'm going to Mrs. Lockdown, where is the theater, you know this key theater, this is the Ukrainian theater based on the Corofia of the Ukrainian Theatre, the pitiful theater. Because of this, I am in favour of helping this theater as well as the theater of the Russian drama. And you can't deny me the right to take that position, Mr. Simonenko, and don't yell at me, I'm not afraid of you. I therefore believe that the Committee on Culture should be entrusted with the preparation of a comprehensive theatre document, in all the theaters that are in Ukraine today, especially in Ukrainian theatres, because nowhere else can the Ukrainian theatre flourish, only on this earth, the Ukrainian theater is real, and that it should be entrusted to our Committee on Cultural Issues to prepare a document. Voting in favour of this document, obliging the city authorities, obliging the President, obliging others to pay attention to one single theater in Ukraine, we simply have no right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u59	Basil Nadrag. Well, one minute, do you need a result or a replica? The result is obviously necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Vasily Nadraga, People's Party. I would like to ask one question. My dears, are we adopting a law or a decree? We're making a decision. In this regulation, we, as a legislative body, propose to consider issues. I will not now list for a long time that it is proposed to consider property issues, nor will I say what it is proposed to consider budgetary matters. I would like to say that it is proposed and, accordingly, we expect that all those whom we turn to as the Supreme Council will be dealt with in our proposals under existing legislation, will consider these issues and will come out again, if the budget is concerned, with the proposals of the same Supreme Council in order for the theatre to receive funding in 2006. I don't see anything in this that could stop us. We know with you how it forms, for example, the same budget, how difficult it is to introduce expenditure items. So it is bad that in the 1980s, we draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers, the body that prepares proposals in the budget, to take into account the interests of one of the central theatres of our State. Colleagues, what's wrong with that? Next moment. I would very much like to address everyone without exception. Let us talk about the particular theatre and the 80th anniversary that it notes. Because from the rostrum, there has already been a topic that has been discussed both at the inter-State level, at the national level and at the language level, and at other theatres. I repeat, the decree concerns a theater that is 80 years old this year. One of the two theatres that constitutes the cultural value of our State. What's wrong if, once again, we ask the President on behalf of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to be careful, I repeat, to one of the two central theatres of the State. Colleagues, I don't see anything wrong. Regrettably, there is something else that I see is the desire to make a policy where it does not exist. Culture policy, I don't think we should do that, and that's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. One minute at a time. Just a minute. I see, fellows of honor. Samilik and Silent, one minute, please. We're on, but we're running out of time. Dear colleagues, I'm taking all those who signed up to keep you in a normal mood so that we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, today’s calls not to take part in the vote for this decision are our share in destroying the remnants of culture and spirituality in our country. It's not about Rezniković, it's about a theater that in 1925, when Ukraine was in disarray, was created by Soviet authorities and existed for 80 years. He has truly become a model of the spirituality of our culture. And in doing so, we're protecting not only this theater, but all of our theaters, all of our culture, all of our spirituality, which is being destroyed today, I want to say: the disgrace of the authorities that are forcing us to deal with these issues today. And if we already want to protect the 20 percent of the population of Ukraine that we have to join our family today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. Paul Mikhailovich and all. Please don't direct me, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u64	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u65	There's no list yet, don't rush.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, a historical reference: this theater was founded by the Ukrainian corpse -- first. Secondly, I won't touch this subject either, but most importantly, most importantly: you can understand that yesterday, when you look at the bills that are passed around the committee, they are doomed. And I would like us not to deviate from the procedures that have already been put in place. Let's look at this topic and this decision first on the profile committee. Some comments will be made, and the committee will be accompanied, and I think there will be an expert evaluation accordingly, because this is about budgets and the general principles of theatre. If this were to apply to the award of a group, we would support, and we would do something else. It's about property problems, financial problems. That's why I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u67	Yes, thank you. One minute, one minute. We'll make a decision, then we'll make a line if we can, because we have to make a decision. Come on, my dear fellows, you're simple. With the voting procedure, please, Assadchev. I'm going to read to you what you're going to accept, and you're all going to calm down. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends, we all love the theater and theatre of the forest of Ukraine. I just can't understand one thing: why do you think that if we take this decision in the way it was read, it's the best option? And if it's supported by a profile committee, would it be bad? Well, that'll be even better. Do you think that dreams will make a very bad decision? Well, why? It's a committee of profiles. and the budget will work. And we're going to see why it actually ended up in municipal property, a state theater funded by the State Budget? Let's take a professional look at these things. We ask, let's make the most professional, the best. Maybe there's something else we can include in this decree. Why do you think the first text was made is the best option? And the profile committee is asking me to work -- no, we won't, because he's going to do something wrong. Well, you can't go like that. I think let's get her to work and vote next week. Let the committee work anyway. There are experts on this committee, aren't they going to do worse? I don't think so. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I think that's how we should do it, because we're already involved. Obviously, we got caught up in the unprepared enough. We need to get out of this. That's the first one. The other one. But you've noticed that everyone says they didn't see the verdict, but they're talking professionally. So while you've been discussing this, I've been working on this draft decision, and I'm going to read it to you. There are some emotions, and they obviously need to be removed from the commitment to the Ministry of Culture. I'll read it. I don't read the Preamble, it stays: "Recommend to the President of Ukraine to take the necessary measures to stop the involvement of law enforcement officials and officials in the work of the collective." I filmed everything else there. "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine prohibit the alienation of property, privatization of premises, and the land area used by the National Academy Theatre of Russian Drama." Next. There I shot, I only read what's left: "Look at the question -- I beg your attention -- about the preservation of the creative team of the National Academy Theatre of Russian Drama by them. The forests of Ukraine and providing it with the necessary conditions for the realization of the right of self-determination in manufacturing and creative matters." Well, well. Whether a point relating to commitments to the Ministry of Culture is deleted, it is incorrect, and secondly, there is already a reference to the President of Ukraine. With regard to budgetary processes, it is suggested that we write: "The Cabinet of Ministers study the issue of the award of the National Academy Theatre of Russian Drama. The forests of Ukraine provide adequate budget allocations to complete the construction of a small stage, a theatre lobby, and production workshops, as well as repairs, and the purchase of necessary equipment. And the next moment. Instead of obliging the Kyiv City Administration to recommend that the Kyiv City State Administration study the transfer of buildings and buildings occupied by the National Academy Theatre of the Russian name Lesi Ukraine, from municipal to state property, as well as the development of the right to use the land used by the government. So it's all done properly and delicately. With this in mind, my dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree, registration number 7675. Please vote. Let's demonstrate that we're normally finishing a week's work, doing normal work, working hard, working hard, working hard! [[11:44:19]] For 261 Decision taken. Please. One minute, one fraction, one minute. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 43, National Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 9, SPU - 27, Ukrainian National Party - 1, SDPU - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 8, "Afterfractional" - 11. Dear colleagues, I don't think we should be here again. Well, we're about to get involved in this discussion, well, please! The replica. The name was Peter Simonek. He's entitled to a replica. And the next question. Well, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u70	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable radio audiences! As you can see, it is us Communists, continuing the glorious traditions of the spirituality of our people, who have proposed to protect the theatre from arbitrary, arbitrary conditions in an independent Ukraine, nationalists and socialists, in order to preserve theatres and cinemas. I want to address to you, the power of nationalists and socialists, where is the cinema of Duženko, where is the Yaltinska Cinema, Odessa Cinema, where all the publications that were produced by mass circulation are large numbers of publications, where are cultural palaces and clubs? You've turned them into casinos and brothels over the years, today you've alienated them from access to culture and access to the sources of spirituality of our people. You are trying to overthrow today, destroying the most important of all, the most sacred of traditions and loyalty to the traditions of the former generations. We protect the people of Ukraine from plebeev politicians who destroy State independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u71	One minute, Bespaly. Then there's the cloud. Well, Your Honor, after the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u72	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" for the reasons of the vote. It's a legal moment first. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to remind you that exactly a week ago, after the chicken voice here was too much. Well, a decision that was very questionable, you're doing the same thing today. After that. You said a week ago, "Now we're going to act exactly on the Rules." Now you have to think about it! - the national art theater we decide on in the regime of legislative autonomy. They're reading something from the rostrum, they're voting for something. It's in shape. Parliament cannot work on its own and govern the state on the basis of the self-reliance of the artist. Now essentially. This is very often done. The title says happiness, you open the cover, the mother of God! - it's a disaster. It's not about creativity, it's not about protecting culture, it's about legalizing the theft by some officials of what they haven't stolen yet. And you can't support that, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u73	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u74	Stepan Cloud, Ukrainian National Party Dear Mr. Head! You set up the Supreme Council today, and you set up the President. I understand you're very good at improving documents, but first, you violated our rights, because when you made your changes, we had to talk briefly. You didn't let us do that, even though there were requirements. And the second. We want to have the law and the Constitution or have the President interfere with his telephone rights, for example, with law enforcement agencies. And the second. Why do we forbid law enforcement authorities to perform their direct functions if there are signals that there is a violation of the law, theft, or any other kind of machination? It is their responsibility to carry out these functions. And we want to ban it. And you, with such experience, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, are pushing Parliament into a position that is not parliamentary, on the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. Let's do it this way. I'd like that. Just a minute. Who was the name here? Side and everything, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u76	Dear voters! The Socialist faction supported the Supreme Council's decision on the Forest of Ukraine with all its votes. But one of the deputies here, the leader of the steel gulag party, allows for events against socialists every time, stressing the power of nationalist socialists. I would like to say that this is not true at all, but it still shows that the leader of the steel gulag party is working today and is speculating for the next election. This time. And the second. Such mergers do not attest to the speaker’s great mind, but they do testify to his primitiveism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I'd like us all to calm down now. Dear colleagues! I would ask that we calm down and come out of what we need to do together, that we need to find understanding and mutually acceptable positions. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! I would like us not to exaggerate the meaning of the document we have adopted. It's going to be the same thing because we signed a memorandum yesterday, it's going to be something similar. Today, one side shouts, the other shouts. And I'd like to ask when we're making a decision to have you in the session room. We voted in favour of him for 300 votes. Therefore, the draft Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas of the Old Housing Fund, registration number 7483, is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities - Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. The narrator will be speaking. Head of the Committee Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko This is a five-minute report, three-minute answers, for the same report, five-and-three minutes. Discuss and make a decision for 15 minutes. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u78	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, invited by the Government to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the complex reconstruction of neighborhoods, micro-regions of an outdated housing fund, is due to the real state of the existing housing fund of Ukraine and the need to improve the living conditions of their residents. I'll give you some figures: for today's housing fund of the first mass series that needs replacement or reconstruction is about 1.2 million apartments, which is 25% of the city's multi-housing housing fund. About 2% of the housing fund is in a vehicular and emergency state. So the only way to start thinking about it is once again, to start solving the problem of an outdated housing fund and replacing it with a modern comfortable home is non-state investment. This is the way other countries, such as Russia, have gone, where the involvement of investors in such programs has produced positive results. Regrettably, there is no real financing mechanism in Ukraine for the replacement of an outdated housing fund. That's why the government didn't execute the program to reconstruct the first mass-series housing. It has proved impossible to implement it only on the basis of public and local budgets. What are the main obstacles to investors’ participation in similar programs? First of all, this is a lack of regulatory basis, criteria and mechanisms for the replacement of housing and non-residential premises, as well as the removal of land. The second is that there are no procedures for identifying the areas, the blocks that are to be reconstructed. This is a lack of requirements for new housing to replace the obsolete. This is the absence of a clear definition of investor and city authorities’ obligations in the implementation of retroactive housing replacement programs. It is to settle these and other issues that you have proposed a bill. Key rules of the bill. First of all, it's a complex reconstruction and blockage of neighborhoods, and it's an out-of-date housing. Secondly, this is a definition on the competitive principles of the developer's investor. This is an opportunity to combine the costs of investors of developers and local self - government agencies to carry out engineering training, to build social facilities, to build engineering infrastructure, and to build well - built territories. It's moving people directly into neighborhoods that are subject to complex reconstruction into new housing. This is a forward-looking provision, I would like to emphasize once again, the pre-emptive provision of compensation for owners of housing and non-residential housing or compensation for non-residential property costs according to their market value. This is a 50 - percent increase in ownership or rental for owners. This is a definition of the basis and order of alienation of housing and non-residential housing for social reasons. It is also a characteristic of financing the relocation of tenants and owners of housing located in the area of a complex wasteland, at the expense of investors without budgeting. It's an agreement on projects for the reconstruction of an old housing fund based on a single window. The bill is generally supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The need to resolve these problems in connection with the organization of the reconstruction of the outdated housing fund is also recognized by the national deputies of the National Council of Ukraine, a professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Meanwhile, a number of good proposals have been made to the draft Act by the Chief Scientific and Expert Offices and the National Deputies, which relate in particular to the need for a clearer definition of the obsolete housing fund, the non-proliferation of the law in the area of memory protection and the historical habitats, the clarification of possible sources of reconstruction, the establishment of financial guarantees for the completion of construction and the improvement of procedures and the grounds and procedures for the alienation of premises that relate to the outdated housing fund. This is an increase in the capacity of the population living in the territory to make the final decision. Please support the bill on the complex reconstruction of the neighbourhoods of the obsolete housing fund and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u79	Thank you, Alexy Yuriovich. Please sign up for questions. Three minutes. Tealenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u80	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexius Yuriovich, this is a complex reconstruction of the neighborhoods. And we know perfectly well, and in many small cities, urban-type villages exist simply in an accident in a state of horrendous housing, where it's impossible to live today. Is there anything similar for separate houses and not for neighborhoods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u81	First of all, it is definitely a complex reconstruction of the neighborhoods of two issues. First of all, this problem is very big in large cities. And secondly, today we're talking about the lack of the possibility of budgeting, you know that much better than I do. So nowhere in the law is it written that this refers to 20 houses or one or one hundred. But the point is that these projects will certainly be the first to be implemented, where investment attractiveness is today. If there's an investment attraction in the regions you're talking about, there's definitely going to be projects there. But I would like to point out that we're starting this process, and no one can say that we're going to solve this problem in a year or two. We're starting to solve this problem. That's what this bill is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u82	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Bronnikov behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u83	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear reporter, yesterday the Supreme Council tried to adopt the new Housing Codex. Today, the government is proposing measures to rebuild out - of - date housing and so on. The government is offering, but it's not offering any money. And I look at it.: what the authorities of local self - government should do, I wonder. There, as in the good old days of our day, instead of baskets, it is suggested that we recommend, approve, confirm, and so forth. Please tell me, what will be the amount of self-government given to this case? And the second. Can you honestly say the law for Kiev, the big city, or the village in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u84	Thank you for asking, for the right question. First of all, I would like to reiterate that the law now provides different possibilities for pooling funds and the State Budget, and local budgets, and investors' costs. But based on real practice, and I want to give you figures that over the last four years out of 32 million. In Ukraine, only two per cent were built at the expense of the State budget and two per cent at the expense of the local budget. And everything else at the expense of the population and the investors. And that's why we're proposing different mechanisms, but they're going to start those mechanisms where there's actually going to be an investment attraction. And this is a measure of the answer to your second question. I'm telling you frankly, I think the first Kiev for today is more prepared for this. [[I think and I think]] But I'm sure it's parallel, and there's already work in the big cities -- and in Odessa, in Donetsk, in Dnipropetrovsk, in Lviv, in Kharkiv, and they're just going to be a second wave with a little delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u85	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u86	Alexei Juryevich, no questions needed. And the fact that you've dealt with this problem, thanks and honor. But here's the problem. Without a problem, people moved from place to place, our great Stalin. In the rest of the days of human displacement, there was a problem. It seems to me that the law seeks to alleviate the problem of human rights. Is there no violation of the right of the owner to housing, a violation of the Constitution when we cannot move him without the consent of the person and no one has the right to decide for him? Pissip.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Costinovich! Thank you for the right question, too. There's a real problem, we all feel it. What's more, if we don't start solving it now, we're going to have to do it in a year or two, but we're going to be dealing with the windshields, not the windshields, we're going to have to do the windshields. Today, article 12 of the law prescribes a standard for applying the social need to solve this problem. For social reasons, and this rule is laid down in the second paragraph of article 12, all residents will be offered or prejudiced, not later than prescribed in the Constitution after a state of emergency or war, namely, in advance, or financial compensation, or the provision of a correspondingly enlarged housing area. And it is also written that if these results, these measures do not result in results, the standard of forced removal of this dwelling may be applied with this compensation. But we now think that this is not contrary to the Constitution, because there are absolutely concrete proposals for every inhabitant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexi Juryovich, sit down, please. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Liaison of Valery Pavlovich Desertka. Five minutes report, three questions answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I just wanted to say that I'm very sad and sorry, and I don't know how to say that we didn't adopt the Housing Code yesterday, which, in principle, defines the ideology of our citizens' further housing. So, first of all, yesterday we got a transcript of all the national MPs. I already signed all the letters this morning. All the suggestions that have been made to you have been taken into account. I appeal to the Supreme Council to include in the next plenary week a draft of the Housing Code and to vote for the following week. And Vitaly Shibko asked me a question yesterday -- I have to say it -- right out of today's law, the Housing Code. Well, we'll try to count them too. That's what happened. And I want to talk to the next one. Regrettably, despite the committee’s meeting, this law was incorporated into the agenda. I would like to see that we do not include such questions without consideration by the committee. Next. We had a very keen discussion at the committee meeting. We split up. Most supported the bill, and there is a minority. I think that Mikola Kruglov should say the word on the subject and the questions raised on our committee. Right away, I want to tell our voters and those present in this room that this law does not solve the problem of providing housing for our citizens so that everyone knows. More today, it's aimed at securing the rights and work of investors who will work in the reconstruction of neighborhoods. But he'll have to work. And I want to tell everyone that it's only then that it's going to work if the investor has a profit. There'll be no profit -- no remodeling of neighborhoods here at all. But the reconstruction has to be done because we have the center of the city of Odessa -- I can give an example, the reconstruction of the neighborhoods is not done, the Dnipropetrovsk, the Kiev and many other cities. This law must be adopted. I'm not going to talk about the last problems that might arise. But in order for us to vote it out, I can put it to a vote in the first reading. And in my opinion, we should vote today in the first reading, except for paragraph two of the Final Provisions. I'll vote it, I'll read it to you. He says about the following: this is the main issue that arises when considering this legislative act, the rule is to exclude: "If more than 50 per cent of owners, tenants, non-residential buildings of the house have agreed to move out, other owners of housing may be subject to compulsory measures, for social reasons, to alienate these premises by way of redemption at market value, and to tenants at housing premises -- to evict them with prior provision equivalent to the area of housing or non-residential premises in an order established by law. This paragraph should be deleted and voted on in the first reading. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u90	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Let's sign up for questions. Yes, please, three minutes Koval. Cook's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u91	National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Please pass the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u92	Bogdan Kostinuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u93	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Valery Pavlovich! Well, first of all, I want to say that we're going to support this law, and although we understand that today it only applies to Kiev and the central part of it, that is, it can work. Why? Because they are investment attractive, they can be objects. Tomorrow it will apply to big cities and so on and so forth. And when. It's going to be when our citizens actually have a higher standard of living. We're thinking that the investor is the main investor, that's what it is. The first investor is our citizens, then the second one is the one that accumulates their costs. I have a question. The weakest link is forced eviction. It doesn't matter whether 50 percent is agreeable or 90 percent. One problem if not correct is the problem. How to solve this problem, according to the Constitution, because lawyers say that this rule is still contrary to the Constitution, it is controversial.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u94	I repeat to all deputies, you have two questions. The reconstruction will only take place in small cities when the investor is attractive. [[Well, there's Brovary, Boryspill, where there's cartilage, old microregions or other cities.]] So the cost of housing is going to be something that's going to stay in the process of building a new house. A few apartments, they're going to be implemented at such a price that they're going to get a profit from this reconstruction. That's the first question. Why am I filming this article? We have in the Housing Code article 22, which, in principle, deciphers the order in which citizens are resettled in the reconstruction of microregions. So we're going to accept without what I said in the first reading, and then we're going to work out the second reading and adopt the Housing Code so that we can have everything in context just as much as we can for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u95	Mikola Kuharczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u96	Chef, Communist faction. Dear Valery Pavlovich! In the beginning, I want to correct the inaccuracies expressed by the previous reporter. He said he was fully supportive of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The main scientific and expert office said it was appropriate to send for re-reading. Now let's ask you a question, Valery Pavlovich. If you know part two of the second article of the 12th, 50 percent of the eviction, you're practically losing the meaning of the bill, and I think the government and Julia Volodymyrna themselves will call it off of the Supreme Council tomorrow. And the third question. You know, this bill goes into a set of drafts on what's called "The Theory of Quality of Life." And yesterday, the 15th, Ukraine's Land Trade and Land Market Act, the Supreme Council voted zero. So no one supported this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u97	I said in my statement that I recommend that the leadership of the Supreme Council should first be tested on the committee and then planned or incorporated into the agenda of the Supreme Council. Regrettably, the matter was raised, that is, the Rules. Now that we've come to this, I can say boldly that it violates any sense, because when we work on the first reading, we're going to solve the question in this article like this. How we resolved the issue in the Housing Code regarding the non-removal of citizens for non-payment of rent. We've found a solution to this question, and we're going to solve it here. It will necessarily be related to the Housing Codex, which we will settle. And the problem is. You can imagine. You're living in the house now, he's going to crash tomorrow. The City Council will decide that this house is an emergency, that you will be evicted, that you will be taken down, that you will not be asked. This should never happen. So I suggest that this paragraph be removed, and then we will remove all the problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u98	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, please sit down. The only thing that we don't include in the agenda without profile committees is that we can't go into the agenda without them. No, I mean, you're saying that, without consideration at the Committee, we tried to get into the agenda. This is not a violation of the rules. So let's move on to the discussion, 15 minutes, please, Vladimir Puzakov. Oh, wait, please, Vladimir. Well, the committee had a separate opinion. Please, Kruglov. Mikola Kruglov, there was a certain thought on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u99	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. From the beginning, I wanted to say that once this Law was implemented, if it was adopted, the order on the local councils would not be reduced by more than one unit. This apartment will be built exclusively for money. This is the first, secondly, I would like to say and point out that this bill is not alone. This is a system of laws for the implementation of this Law that needs to be adopted as a minimum of 10 bills that regulate exactly the creation of a source of financing for this building source that tries to create at the expense of the mortgage. And even today, there's a government project that says that state mortgages in the 2005 budget are expected to give the Cabinet of Ministers a guarantee of 10 billion dollars to make it a mortgage. That's the first one. Secondly, from this series of bills, one bill has already been passed, and for two bills there is a decision of the Finance Committee: not to adopt two more bills. So it's practical how much cheese is and is not regulated from the point of view of the Constitution of Laws, these bills. In addition, what I was going to say in this bill, just after the Supreme Council signed a memorandum yesterday on property integrity, this bill even rewords that memorandum signed yesterday by the Cabinet of Ministers along with the Supreme Council. Moreover, this bill clearly lacks the notion of social necessity. Everyone hides the social need to evict a person, but what a social necessity no one writes in this law. There is no warning as to what a person will be given money, whether it's financial ability or a manoeuvre fund, nor is it. There is no compensation for the cost of the person we say will be evicted and transported elsewhere. But most importantly, there is no guarantee of a return to the microregion from which she was evicted. I would like to say that so far, all these questions have already been settled in the draft Housing Codex, which we also turned away yesterday. In this regard, I propose that this bill should be rejected, that four committees should be assembled, that the whole package of bills should be seriously discussed, and that it should be decided only after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready, Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u101	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The design of the project is simply fabulous and unfulfilled, though it is due to the need to rebuild the existing housing fund and improve the living conditions of the country’s population. I fully agree that more than a third of the population of Ukraine live in residential areas that have poor technical status, low operating qualities and have mainly exhausted their exploitative resources. Everyone knows that there are a large number of emergency dwellings and repairs in Ukraine today, and no one is planning to do so. But this mechanism that the government is offering is very similar to a meat crisis mechanism with a fuel-oil crisis. So people are being evicted from privatized apartments in one area, and after repairs that are unknown when built by builders, people can offer another area. And who's going to pay for the larger square? Does this government and the Prime Minister personally not care? Are you going to move people to the orange tents of Midan Independence in the winter? Now let's raise the statistics. How many young families are in line for housing? And those in turn in the '80s, when do they get to live? As it turns out, those in line will be provided with housing from an old foundation that should be legally tolerated, and those who had previously had housing with all the comforts will be given a new one? It's just an illusion. It's another trick of the people. If this law goes into effect, it is only in Kiev, and, as always, the whole of Ukraine will work for it. What about the periphery? Local budgets today are not even able to carry out capital repairs to such buildings, plumbing, and sewage systems, roofs, and other works. So to solve the housing problem by half, it is necessary to renovate the old housing fund in turn. And for young families, it is necessary to provide a mechanism for low-percent long-term housing loans, as proposed by the Communist Party of Ukraine all the time. And to do that, you need to create a stable cash base that will enable the national mortgage lending system to function effectively. This bill is not supported by the Communists. Because we don't want to be liars in front of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u102	Thank you. Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. By fully supporting the "Land of Quality Life" programme and recognizing the need for its legislative provision, I would like to make some comments on the bill. First. The bill does not take into account the interests of residents of an outdated housing fund. It should be borne in mind that the vast majority of them are elderly people who have lived in their homes for decades, who have become accustomed to their own microregion, and who will feel neither the need nor the desire to change their place of residence. So, in my opinion, the harsh rule of forced eviction of 49 percent of owners, tenants, article 12, is unacceptable. It violates citizens’ rights and property rights. The state has to guarantee that these people continue to live within their microregion, and so they have to get housing on property rights or employment in the start-up buildings of an investment project. It's supposed to be a convenient infrastructure for them, and so on. The other one. It is evident that the bill is about empowering authorities and local self-government, but it does not mention the right and authority of the city community, especially the part of it that expects the prospect of forced displacement. This has already been the case, especially in Kiev, when decisions on the building are adopted in the land, often not in harmony with the will of nearly three million Chinese. Perhaps it would be wise to ask questions about the holding of a local referendum to agree on a specific investment project with the local community. The bill is designed for the participation of major investors. If such investors are found in Kiev and several other major cities, the problems of people living with cartilage in small cities will in no way be solved. There is no need to rely on public and local budgets. We should not count on the creation of funds for the reconstruction or replacement of a housing fund. The involvement of construction investors in small cities would be possible only if they were granted a favourable farming environment. However, this problem is not dealt with in the bill. Four. It would be legislative to limit the cost of construction by at least 20 percent, which would reduce the cost of apartments and make them more accessible to future buyers. Fifth. It would be all right to create an enterprise with the disposal of construction structures, old buildings that are going to wear out. In any case, they could still be used in road construction. But despite these and other comments, I believe that the bill can be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u104	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u105	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Dear colleagues! The subject of the bill is housing, which is recognized by Vethim. What is it? In the absolute majority, it's cartilage. Khrushkovka, originally built for 20-25 years. They have already survived all possible depreciation periods. And the way the people live in cartilages, which are easy to say, have long and long been ordered to live, is true. Enough, so to say, to go, I don't know who, but I have Luhansk to see that there's nothing so alive. And to invest in repairs often, it's a very difficult problem, because communications have deteriorated, the foundations have been designed not to serve so long, the walls have created confusion at all, the roof is a reminder to a greater extent. I understand this needs to be done, and we won't be able to change everything immediately. But I think the proposed bill provides an opportunity to start a movement on this issue. I will give you a few figures: see, in 2000-2004 in general, 36 totals were funded and built in Ukraine. 31.6 million square metres of housing. Of these, 2.5 per cent from the State budget, 2.1 per cent from local budgets, and 61.1 per cent from the population. So, in fact, housing was built by rich people because the average citizen we're talking about isn't able to buy an apartment, even if it's going to cost $200 or $300 per square meter, which is considered a discount when we're talking about commercial housing. So when it is said today that there is a mechanism through which you can try a part of the population that is unable to do so, I stress that you are not able to buy your own housing, give you housing, I think you have to do it. We are obliged to enter, and to do so accordingly. But I would like to say this: for first reading, this bill is an idea of how approaches are best suited. The only thing I doubt is that I would ask the authors to elaborate on the second reading of two questions. The first question is, of course, the problem that was referred to as a professional committee here is the problem of forced eviction. We cannot allow a person to be thrown out of his home simply because someone who does not live in this house is alone, without taking his opinion into account. Secondly, I think that the situation needs to be addressed accordingly, how the new housing, which is clearly larger in areas, will take into account the interests of the people to whom this housing will be given in exchange.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. He will be followed by Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, our citizens! As the owner of the crossword puzzle, I've been interested in reading everything from the first to the last line. And I want to tell the government that there is no comprehensive approach to drafting legislation in the government. It's not specifically about today's Ministry -- it's just a diagnosis of today's government. Because there's an article on the 22nd in that project that looked at where it was written yesterday. And Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko spoke tenderly, very tenderly! Why? Because this is just one thousandth of the code, that's what you're saying. And how much is this thousandth share, when it came out of the Prime Minister's mouth as a pianist, that's the main thing, and not the top priority, to solve the housing issue, and not to say or report to society, where 400 million of the capital investments that we now have to distribute under the State Budget Act. They didn't say anything about it, and we say, "We're going to do it now." And now, in Kiev and other cities, 20 to 25 percent of the prices of cartilage rose. Now we're going to do some prescribing tricks. All the Kiev deputies, including Boris Bespalliy, asked me to say that, and to take off this hoax. People, don't expect--the government didn't offer anything good this time! So I'll make it clear that this has to be part of the law, especially the Housing Code -- once again, the second -- delete articles that conflict with the Constitution. The entire Constitution is in conflict with part 2 of article 12 of the draft. One. Confronts the Constitution, the Transitional Regulations, which change the current Housing Code, or the old one. The rights of citizens are narrowed down, and article 22 of the Constitution is violated. Three. These are the colossal remarks I have as my coowner. And this law can generally be called "the protection of the interests of the investor." That's it. Because there's not even a principle in approaches. Principles. Article 2. There is no guarantee of the right of Ukrainian citizens to housing at all. Write this down and set it as a priority, the first principle that should be in a loving government of a loving country. So without the Transitional Provisions, without Article 12, without Article 7, this law can be adopted in the first reading, but then it must be put there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u108	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u109	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Respectful colleagues, the complex reconstruction of neighborhoods and microregions of an outdated housing fund, and the improvement of living conditions are of vital importance. At the same time, as of January 1, 2004, there are 1 million 400,000 new workers in line for housing, but the turn is progressing under the current conditions of financing the case with very slow. At a rate of one and a half percent per year. So if the turn doesn't go up, the last one gets housing 66 years later. And to that. This bill, and all that we're discussing today, does not touch this category of our population. The initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers to at least try to find a way out of this sad situation for residents of the "breeding" could be welcomed, but with this initiative, the government of capitalist ministers went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in a very attractive form, it lays some hooks for the benefit of, first of all, the so-called strategic investor. Let's take a look at article 9, "The Source of Financing, Reconstruction, Replacement of the Housing Fund." First of all, the cost of some investors is more likely to come from Turkey or Norway or from some other overseas states, and then the cost of reconstruction funds is somewhere in third place, the state budget, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever expects too much of this bill, stop. Article 12. She's been talked about a lot. I'm going to bring in just one line from this 12th article: "the ransom trail at market value." If you don't even agree to be evicted, but if you have a social need, you'll be evicted, and you'll get a penny for this cartilage, and then you'll try to get any housing at all. Thus, such a bill is designed primarily to satisfy the interests of so - called strategic investors, men of authority, money. And use any hooks, conditions to remove the distressed people who are hoping for something. Such a bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u110	Question completed. Motives, a minute, Gournik, please. After him, the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First. But what we have to say is that people's housing problems are not born by today's government and not even by the Bush authorities of yesterday, but are the result of the 70-year prior regime, when 1.5 of them are in turn. Well, Stalin was very easy to solve at the expense of the gulags, and now the cartilage problems exist and say that the government doesn't do anything, but there's an offer that people get cheap housing. Another thing that is dangerous and dangerous is not related to this bill, but to the bills that change budgets. State guarantees for 10 billion. We know how they come back. And as for this annual budget, until there's a capplosure, no change can be made. So you can only accept it in the first reading and wait for the distribution of the capillaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u112	Stepan Cloud, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u113	Stepnam of the Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Well, dear colleagues, let's not get carried away, the problem is housing, and this law is not going to improve, and it's not going to improve. It is designed to satisfy the interests of certain building monsters, with the help of certain officials in government structures. And this law opens the way for expropriation in favour of these monsters, creates opportunities for high corruption and so on. In the absence of time, I cannot stop and analyze all the articles in particular dangerous articles 12, 13. One thing surprises me is that there are literate lawyers in the government, but how could they pass such a law, which is contrary, violates several articles of the Constitution. Clearly, this was done on purpose. If the Sicilian mob had such a law, you know, it would be very happy, because it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u114	Yes. Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to emphasize. First and foremost, only by means of laws can we solve the issue of quality and full-fledged housing, so that buildings are not built where the customer wants them, but where people live, first. I mean, make all the buildings investment attractive. And only in this way, just through the construction of areas that occupy low-floor areas that are not suitable for housing cartilage. Only by building a modern - day home will we be able to provide housing for all who need it. That's the first one. The other one. All those who have a hand in not voting for this bill should be aware that they have deprived people of a quality and full home. Because on the question of who will compensate for the larger area, large and powerful loans will be compensated by the state itself. There is only a need to vote on the law. So I urge you all to vote on this law in the first, second, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u116	All those who signed up had the opportunity to speak, and the rest of you let go of your hands. Quickly, the replica was mentioned in his name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u117	Fast, Socialist Party, Dniproperty. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you took note of the report by Valery Pavlovich the Desert Girl. What does this account reveal? It shows that we are dealing with bills that repeat the same positions. That is, the positions that were laid down in the Housing Code, which were not accepted yesterday, are repeated today in this bill. So we either need to develop a housing code to take into account what we have there, and take into account the thoughts and aspirations of all of these people who are concerned with this Housing Code, or give up it, and work out a whole series of bills that are in this. touch the fields of our housing code. And then we're going to define ourselves and not repeat ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u118	Please, one minute, Kucherenko, Alexei Yuriovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I'm very grateful for a whole series of perfectly appropriate effective proposals. I am convinced that they can be included in this law. Secondly, I'd like to remind you of another moment that we've forgotten today. It's about a powerful building industry that we've practically lost. Today, in the face of the collapse of the external markets, it is this sector that can become a locomotive for the economy of Ukraine. And that bill that's being proposed today can push this field, I can't agree with the classification of building monsters. And thirdly, the basic idea is this. Let's imagine there's a house. 450 deputies, and if you take me, 451, for example, live in this house. It's getting old, there's pipes running, there's water running. Sooner or later it will have to be tolerated. What mechanism do we have to make to build a new house on this site, if, for example, Yuri Anatoliyovich, is not willing to do so? It is the creation of this mechanism that is described in this bill. So I think and I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and to work on it, taking into account your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u120	The discussion was concluded. I would like only one reply when it was mentioned that within 75 years a housing problem was brought to the depths. Give God to any government, and to the previous government, and to the present one to satisfy as much as they did then, we'd have a lot less problems. So let us be objective, not politicized. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Quarters, Microregions of the Old Housing Fund. Registration number 7483. [[12:37:18]] For 230 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 59, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, People's Party - 32, Block Timoshenko - 32, Socialists - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, Social Democrats - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 17, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 2, Postfaction - 9. We're considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[new editor]] Review of the simplified procedure. Registration number 6281. Reports the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, Klimpush Orest Dmitrovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u121	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, which was adopted in 2001 and contributed to the development and development of road transport and the improvement of the market services of transport, and to the improvement of the efficiency of its operation. At the same time, this law requires substantial improvement and, above all, strengthening state regulation, ensuring transport security and accelerating the integration of Ukraine's transport system into the European and world transport systems. The existing legislation does not define a number of important legal principles regarding the organization of safe provision of services, the activities of international road hauliers, it does not take into account the characteristics of the organisation of road transport services that have taken place in recent years in the transport services market in Ukraine, where some one hundred thousand non-State-owned carriers now operate, with only 54,000. licenses that are owned by 180,000. transport equipment. In Ukraine there are now taxis without registration and payment of any taxes of about 20,000. Citizens. Car transportation is extremely dangerous. In 2004, more than 53,000 people were killed in traffic accidents. persons. And it's a major social disaster. And that is why he needs further improvement and full legislative provisions. In view of the above, making changes to the law is both relevant and necessary. The bill defines passengers at all levels — the country, the area, the city, their rights, duties, and responsibility. A defined system for State enforcement of road transport legislation, a set of requirements for road hauliers and a defined system for their admission to the service market, a requirement for means of transport, provides for the improvement of the state registration system and the calculation of means of transport, periodic state-of-the-art technical examinations, and the introduction of a clear policy for the instrumental control of their technical status. The basic legal standards for passenger service, transportation, carriers, and passengers have been established, and the procedure for the award of licences for bus routes for general use has been improved. The requirements for means of transport and carriers are harmonised with those of European cooperative countries, which will facilitate the facilitation of the admission to European transport systems of our carriers. In the drafting of this bill, we take into account the bills submitted by the people's deputies in the field of "Car Transport" -- the laws of Alexiyuk, Grachev, Proskuratov, Svášáš and others. Together, those suggestions that were right and appropriate were not only taken into account by those who contradicted, for example, and restricted the rights of business entities or offered extra administrative services. Not the draft law is the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority, which contains a number of observations, but generally recommends that it be adopted in the first reading. There is a conclusion from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which also recommends that it be accepted as a basis. The project was published in the media, discussed at numerous conferences and forms of transporters and public authorities, received full support, I repeat, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and professional associations of Ukrainian carriers. Individual comments from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the National Deputies, and the comments of the ministries and authorities to this draft bill will be taken into account when preparing the document for the second reading. Individually, other comments were taken into account and passed on the new law. The copyright team is very broad. In addition to national MPs, they include experts, representatives of public organizations, scientists, and experts. So the committee reviewed the law and recommended that it be adopted as a basis for adoption in the first reading. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to also support this proposal from the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u122	Thank you, Orestes Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Short-term procedure. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. After him, of course, was Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, which has now been reported, on road transport introduced by national deputies Klimpush, Kuharczuk, Kruk and others, has serious advantages because it has an attempt to address many problems in a comprehensive manner. And at the same time, there's a lot and lots of comments that also come up. In particular, there is a car inspection. You know, probably all of you are sick and tired of those inspections, and what's going on right now. In particular, in this law, the explanatory note for this law is that this law will contribute to less people being killed in road traffic accidents, and only in the last year 6966 people were killed -- that's half of all people who died in Afghanistan in 10 years. That's how healthy it is. But how does this law affect the quality of roads? No way. So I'm reminding this honourable committee that for two years, the Road Traffic Code, which was supposed to reduce this trauma, because it's a code of laws, because it made demands, including the militia, and for those who do road cover. This law has not been passed here before the public court. I've asked the committee, give a good conclusion -- negative, positive -- kind, but let this law go out on the side of the Supreme Council. Then it unlocks the situation, then there won't be any situations that now run after Lieutenant General Razwadowski being stopped or followed by another MP, stopping what the "PL" number has. That's all we have to think about! What, there's no other problem in the state? The cars that say "mafia," "hope," "mania" and so on can't drive, and they can't drive from "v." I don't have that number, but I'm going to Yuri Lucenka. Well, someone in there thinks with their brains what you're doing, doesn't they? So I think there are very serious issues here in the inspection part of those control functions that are in this law, and I'm going to make my proposals. But as a whole, the law in the first reading can be adopted, even though I don't understand what kabotage is. I know what a seaman is. It's shipping off the coast, which is kabotage.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u124	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. It's Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The bill submitted for consideration is a new edition of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, which was adopted four years ago. And if that old law was aimed at increasing the influence of the central executive authority in the field of car transport, it now has an open, so-called market filling, and it's de facto aimed at lobbying the interests of the private carrier. And I'm not sure that there are any drafters who don't actually own the car industry. These are the provisions of the bill that touch the tariff policy of road transport. You and I are witnessing the introduction of a new tariff policy in Kiev, and how the population is beginning to boycott a private carrier who is suddenly doubling passenger fares. That is why these issues must be key in this bill, and they must be harmonized with the Ukrainian Code of Masters and the Law!" About prices and pricing" and the current Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. Article 21 of the bill requires that the owner of the means of transport be kept in specially designed premises, on sites provided with security equipment. [[garage]] This seems to be a violation of the owner’s constitutional rights, some say. But if we agree that we don't have to do this, so that the transport that we use for public transportation is the god knows where, we're going to get so many emergency situations with you, it's going to be hard for us to say that this law has contributed to improving traffic safety. The same can be said of issues related to registration, preparation, and periodic technical inspection of vehicles. This law is contradictory. On the one hand, it is aimed at ridding itself of the influence of the State and on the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u126	Basil Nadrag, the People's Party faction, will be followed by the Hoornik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u127	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has been drafted and prepared by fellow MPs who are professionally engaged in transport. It is worth reminding you that one of the authors is Levin Anatoly Ivanovich, my colleague in the People's Party faction, who traditionally and professionally knows what transport is. And what transport is today about what our population is facing, I can tell you that there are some 100,000 carriers of non-State ownership in our country. What kind of cars are these? What kind of cars are they? Regrettably, it is very often a rather problematic transport. We all remember, probably with you, and the same accident on 2 June in Odessa County, and if you remember Crimea and Hmelnicka, only 40 people died in these three accidents, tens were injured. Both adults and children were injured. And according to this logic, the laws set out a system whereby the State would provide adequate conditions for the development of this transport, because only one billion investments in this sector are required annually, otherwise these vehicles will continue to drive until each trip can become a tragedy. The Act therefore offers an instrument to which the State will contribute to the investment process in road transport. The bill, prepared not only by our colleagues, was discussed in the media, discussed in the relevant Ministry, the All-Ukrainian Association of Road Carriers, the Association of International Road Carriers, trade unions and the mass of other interested persons. They all gave positive conclusions. I therefore believe that, for first reading, the Law is sufficient for us to vote on it, to support it, to continue to deal with the issues that exist. For example, I have a question about the second chapter of the proposed bill, which provides for and prescribes the main functions of State regulation and control of the system of public administration and control, rights and responsibilities, issues of certification, licensing and tariff policy. I think that in this chapter we need more detail to write out a mechanism to eliminate any potential for corruption when the car carrier receives the relevant certificates, licensing when tariff policies are defined. In these matters, I think that we need to create the most transparent mechanism for both carriers and executive authorities, and most importantly, the population knew how, who gets the right to transport them and at what cost, since the protection of the interests of passengers is essential when we talk about the movement of the population. Based on that logic, I propose that we support it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u128	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u129	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Honourable MPs, honourable voters, the proposed bill is the result of the long-term work of the entire copyright team. We can thank him for that. And we see that the situation in this transport services market has changed considerably. And we remember the early '90s, the '80s, a bunch of people who couldn't transport public transportation. There was no transport connection in many villages. Now the situation has changed. The carriers compete in front of each other to capture the passenger. But this whole situation needs a legislative order. And that's why this law is relevant and very right. Because of the imperfection of legislation in the transport market, transporters who cannot meet the safety requirements for transport services are allowed to use appropriate and potentially dangerous means and other similar things. And the subject requires a solution. But there are some imperfections in this bill. In particular, I would like to say that there is a reference in the explanatory note to the 2005 State Budget. I'm a member of the Budget Committee, and I couldn't study that link at all times. If this is a overlapping of a special fund, it will require additional legislative implementation. According to some experts, the circulation of inspectors, as provided for by the bill, the introduction of a so-called transport inspection, is not very justified. We have another transport inspection in our country that is not prescribed by law. And frankly, we don't know how it's going to work and what it's going to do with it. This is the most important gap, in my opinion, this bill is the introduction of this institution of transport inspection without defining its functions, states, budgetary costs and things like that. My proposals are that the bill in the first reading should be voted on. But there's a very big danger that this position of transport inspection without defining its function will remain. And so it would have been better if either the question had been removed or the bill had been written so clearly that it did not raise unnecessary questions. I propose to vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, although we've violated the rule of law, because it takes two for, two against, but they're all in favour. This gives us reason to expect a positive passage of the bill. So I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, the new edition, please vote. [[Registration number 6281]] [[12:57:31]] For 298 The law is adopted as a basis. We have a reason to go to the Vulnerable. Please record. Yes, turn on the monitor. One hour. Please, Istvan Geidosh. Get ready for Hades. None. I can't see Geidosh. Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u131	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Radio Hearers! Istvan Hydos, 72 constituency, PSP faction. I was forced to go to the rostrum by the situation surrounding the substances imported into Ukraine by the Amazon company. As a result of the panic among the population of individual Carpathians, and not only the Carpathians, the media, reports spread that thousands of tons of harmful jachemics have been imported into the territory of the Beregian region, which have had a devastating effect on ecology. In addition, some of them, hiding behind aliases, like "the circle," which also lacks any official information about his address. The founders, however, associate the import of these substances with me. In view of these circumstances, almost two months ago I was asked by the Attorney General with questions: First, is the substance imported by the Azone harmful? Has the legislation been violated, and who is specifically involved? Despite the first question about human health, the answer came within 43 days. In addition to the fact that a criminal case was committed, the name of the substance contained no information. The same was repeated by the Attorney-General at a recent press conference, although he added to journalists the assumption that individual politicians and officials were involved. At the same time, despite the claim that the substance was harmful, the Public Prosecutor’s Office has not yet ruled that its harmful effects would be eliminated, while the Zacarpathian Environmental Administration has stated that the harmfulness of the substance has not been established. The question is, in this case, what is more interested in the public health prosecutor's office or in trying to spread to journalists rumors about the involvement of politicians in the ozone business? Why is there a direct contrast between the harmful nature of the substance in law enforcement and the Zacarpathian ODA, why is it that, when it comes to political involvement, the Piscoon did not name any last name and, in the end, why is there no reaction of law enforcement authorities to the fact that individual media are irresponsibly accusing me of being involved in the activity of the ozone without calling any fact? Taking into account the above, in addition to the specific answer to the question of the existence of a suspicion of the prosecution in my involvement with the ozone company and its import into Ukraine of the substances mentioned above, I ask the Attorney General to answer my previous request and finally to give a final answer to the question whether this substance is harmful or not. Believe me, this is a major issue that concerns us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u132	Bastard, I can't see. It's a walkie-talkie. After Ratushniak prepare for Onichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I want to give you a little bit of information from our modern life, and this isn't a horror movie scenario. One firm is in power in the Zakarpatsky region. "Suppliers" according to the company's relatives, relatives and associates, become intercessors, prosecutors, DPA administrators, fire department, CES and so on, including customs and so on. This is Barva, the CEO and founder of today's governor, Mr. Baloga. So today we have in Zakarpat, if there was a monopoly of one party and we thought it was terrible, then the horrors came only now. So now we have Davos in Ukraine. I want to tell them: "Honorable, no investment can be made in a state where the Constitution melts, where there are accomplices, where there are illegal heads of courts, governors, district leaders and so forth. You can't come here, then wait for the normal elections, the normal state coalition and the stable, progressive development of this state. So for Carpathians, the orange revolution, which was actually a carrot coup, was a film of horrors that's brought to life by a firm. And Yushchenko needs to know about it. He gave power to the Mafia in Zakartat. And those heads — the household court of Vaščilina, the Appeals-Strijak — that were linked to bribes, criminal acts, and the virtually crackdown of criminal structures. Chali is in prison, and his 70 ice creams are serving the governor today. You need to know about this, Victor Andryovich. You gave the Carpathians away to one firm and the Mafia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u134	The word is Michael Onichtuk. Get ready for Anishtuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u135	Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! In particular, I would like to address those citizens who live in the Gitomir region, since it will be one of the enterprises and the situation on this earth. Dear friends, it is well known that one of the priorities of the socio-economic policy of the state today is to stimulate politics and pursue the policies of engagement of Ukrainian citizens. And it's absolutely natural that this priority, which is shared by Ukrainian citizens, today should be the cornerstone of the work and the President's representatives in places, I mean heads of administration, and more than that, it should be the essence of their activities. Why am I talking about this? The fact is that in the Zitomir region, especially in the Romani region, there is one company called the Romani Glass Plant, or not the only business that is strong in this area, which is in a state of sanitation and, in particular, whose activities depend on the fate of more than 400 workers in this factory who provide jobs to families living in this small district center. And it's strange that the recent ones have actually learned that representatives of the State Tax Administration, in particular acting as a committee of creditors and directing the resolution of this enterprise, rather than pursuing a policy of preserving the enterprise, saving jobs, have decided to eliminate it. Perhaps the workers of the factory who work there do not know about it yet. I think by listening to this broadcast and broadcast by the Supreme Council, they'll finally find out what's threatening them. I hope that the district government and district management will take this decision very seriously, bearing in mind that it has put the business at risk, especially in the context of what it is governing. This enterprise has essentially carried out the decision against which a criminal case has been committed on the basis of evidence of crime. [[Part 1 of Article 366 and 365 is a forgery of documents, abuse of office]] Moreover, these people are admitted to government offices, whose purpose is to preserve jobs. Moreover, it is known that the President of the State has assigned the task of raising jobs, at least one million a year. So I ask that this conclusion be considered an official appeal to the President's Secretariat. The Cabinet of Ministers, a request to the Cabinet of Ministers for a thorough study of the situation that has arisen and to prevent the liquidation of the enterprise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u136	Vladimir Anishtuk, a faction of Communists, instead of Masenko. Masenko gave him his word. Next John Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear constituencies! Three months ago, the executive power of the city of Odessa hero illegally, anti-constitutionally seized and led one of the most unconscionable and unscrupulous politicians, a member of the "Our Ukraine" Gurvic faction. According to the direction and support of the strong world now in the city of Kiev and the sold local judiciary. His insolence and insolence attest to the fact that he is still a people's representative of Ukraine, while acting as a city measure. It is a vertigo for the years 1994-1998 in South. You've already cut down the trees, bumped into each other, soiled the political situation to the limit, you remember, and now you're repetitious. In the millions of Odessa, hundreds of unresolved problems, terrible roads and sidewalks, there is no hot water, galloping food prices, high child care, a city recorder on AIDS, tuberculosis and so on and so forth. To distract the Odessites from solving these problems, the cave anti-communist, the masculine anti-counsel Gurvitz, along with his team, has taken a special initiative in his replacement for Kuriné, has set his main goal by inaction, as they know how to eliminate the remains of the Soviet socialist symbolism in the town of Odessa, namely, the only monument to Vladimir Ilic Lenin in the square of the October Revolution, now the Kulik Field, and to rename a number of parks, squares bearing Lenin's names, the Lenin Commosmol, without even consulting the Odessites, referring to a commission there. The Odessites remember Vandalism Gurvica in 1995, when he destroyed it in one night, I emphasize, in one night, the Odessites woke up in the morning, all the monuments to outstanding Soviet officials, and that went away. Once again, his vandalism will not pass. In Odessa, mass protests began, tent towns were established. The main motto of the protestors is "For the dirty hands of Gurvica from Lenin's monument" and "Fascism will not pass." Communists, representatives of the other left forces, demand from the leader of the regional organization of the Socialist Party of Governor Vasily Susko. To prevent the implementation of the plan of Vandal Gurvica, the exacerbation of the political situation in the city of Hero Odessa, and the clashes of supporters of the left opposition with the law enforcement authorities. If that happens, all the blame will be on Gurvica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u138	John Boki, the faction of the socialist party behind him Shershun passed the word Overrazi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I am once again forced to go to this rostrum to speak of the release, illegal release and mistrust of a prominent scholar, Sergey Galchinka, who, under the authority of President Yashchenk, was released from office as Director General of the National Museum, Taras Shevchenk. The paradox is that Sergey Galchenko himself, as I said before, is a proponent of Victor Yushchenk. But Galchenk was released because the President was convinced that he wanted to destroy Shevchenk's museum. In the meantime, it was different. It was about upgrading the exposure, about. The figures of Taras Shevchenk as an artist, a poet, a Titanic of the Spirit of Shakespeare, Pushkin, Dante, Petrarca and so forth, a poet of the world. It was a new, deeper reflection on the character of Taras Shevchenko. Unfortunately, Victor Yushchenka has access to one artist, the author of an old exposition. And it is his ominous role in the liberation of a prominent scientist that is spoken of today in both the museum and the scientific and literary community. It seems to me that, in this case, the President has actually taken on a non-Kingdom business, not his task to go to museums and release directors, not his task at all to evaluate scientific concepts or museum concepts. There are specialists for this. I dare say that Sergey Galchenko is a museum specialist, perhaps even a higher class than our President in banking, so there's no rule of office here, and there can't be a rule of office in the dismissal of someone and something. We have to come up with scientific conclusions, scientific criteria. And in this case, I would say, even, the impeccable release of a man who is loyal to both Ukraine and Shevchenko, loyal to our cause. I don't think there's much to be convinced in this case that Sergey Galchenko needs to be reinstated. It must certainly be restored. I would only ask the President not to assign this to my godfather, the minister of culture. Because it's a wild situation, it means that the President gives him an order to be released, and the Minister of Culture has a mandate to restore it. It's no good from a purely masculine point of view about a woman. And what I'd like to say is that I'm speaking not only on my behalf, but from the entire spectrum of cultural workers, actors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u140	Basil Nadrag, a faction of the People's Party, will be followed by Igor Šurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u141	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues, you and I have adopted a new Act on Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Regrettably, real life raises issues that require further development. Let me give you an example. In the mining environment, which I represent as a representative of Lugansk, the recalculation of previously appointed pensions is satisfactory because those who received decent salaries in the early 1990s today receive good pensions. Here, however, the miners who are just preparing for a well-deserved vacation are, unfortunately, concerned because their pay has not grown, but has decreased with the period. This is because the overall situation in the industry has changed for the better, and many mines are working steadily, and the volume is increasing. Over the past year, only my Lugansk region has given the country over 26 million tons of fuel, including 3 million tons of superplane. In their appeals to me as a majority minister, miners point to the fact that wage rates for workers remain at the 2000 level. As the agreement between the Mintopenergo and the industry trade unions was signed in 2002, it has not been revised in four years. And the average bet is 160 bracelets. Therefore, in the light of the various production supplements, individual professions are paid below the minimum. The arguments of the industry manual are one: there is no money, the miners' budget has been cut. However, as the miners prove, the situation is due to new distortions as well. So a kilo of coal is an average of 15 copies. Four kilowatts of electricity are produced from kilograms. The population buys 16 kilowatts and the enterprises buy an average of 30. If you calculate the yield of energy, each kilogram of coal will produce an amount of 20 copies of 1 bracelet. If the fuel is for the coxochemical industry, the profit is earned on metal. I'll get another calculation from Lugansk again. The region sells coal monthly for 260 million grivens, of which 255 million grivens are paid. And energy from this coal is already selling its products for 1 billion grevens and spending only half of the earned amount on wages. It does. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy itself has a reserve, and it is only necessary to review the price policy in order to resolve the issue and not violate labour legislation. You can't make energy on coal miners and coal miners on coal miners, so if you'll excuse me, for your own sake. After all, the employer has no right to approve wage tariffs less than those provided for by law. And normal earnings will ensure people's normal existence today and what I started out with a normal pension in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u142	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party united. Behind him is Ratovny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u143	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Today, a faction of United Social Democrats has raised the issue of bribery and corruption, in which Ukraine has been accused by representatives of the world community. I would like to draw the attention of both the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General to the problem of corruption and abuse in health care. Over the course of 10 years, it has been emphasized to the power structures that, in fact, no one in this field is able to establish the very fact of corruption. You don't have to look for anything today. The Minister of Health, who is Ukraine’s national deputy, today violates 78 articles of the Constitution, 120 articles of the Constitution, he violates the Ukrainian Civil Service Act, Ukraine’s Corruption Act. Today, the minister of health has misled the entire population of Ukraine of the fact that he has filed an application for his powers as head of the profile committee. That's not true! It's a cynical lie not to say more harshly. On Wednesday he held a committee meeting, presided, and stated that he had not written any statement. I am inclined to trust the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. I don't know who's telling the lie, it's the point of clarifying the relationship between them. And I went back to the subject of medicine because today, on the eve of the Holy Trinity State Festival, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, all medical personnel, from the organizers to the person who ensures the existence of this area: doctors, nurses, health workers, people of other professions working in this field, and to wish for a totally different attitude and attitude towards themselves from the authorities, the new authorities, so that they do not suffer from the anti-constitutional orders of the Minister of Health, such as the 81st Order, which restricted the right to choose medical workers among students who finish higher education. [[united]] So that there are no orders like the order that predicted the eviction of Ohmatdit workers and the placement of Ministry of Health staff there. I wouldn't want to deny the right to adopt a profession of obstetrics and gynecology that the minister would not be able to acquire the profession of a drug doctor, because homelessness and drugs are painful subjects. I would like to see a completely different attitude towards medicine in our society so that it has full preference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u144	Mikhailo Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. He's behind him, Andrew Poliyet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u145	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I want to raise a problem that some of the old nomenclature have been saying for 14 years that it doesn't have to be raised, that it's not a priority, that it doesn't depend on the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. Despite President Krawczuk’s awareness of the President’s mission, a decree was adopted to eliminate the monuments that are left behind in the era of totalitarianism and slavery in Ukraine. Throughout every district center, except Galicina and Volina, there are monuments to a man who was never in the territory of Ukraine, but who did all he could in the early 20th century to try the Ukrainian people for his own nation in the form of the Ukrainian People’s Republic in the form of blood from Ukrainian citizens. Each district center and district center is surrounded by a monument to the man who sent the Muraviov gang to our capital, a monument to a man who hated the Ukrainian nation’s desire for sovereignty, for his own independence. This is because the monuments of Vladimir Ilchi Lenin are everywhere. Despite the fact that even the people of Symbirsk demand that their city be restored to their historical name and returned from Ulyanovska to Simbirsk, we in Ukraine keep a monument to a man who, I say again, had never been to Ukraine. Is it simply a memory, is it not a testimony that Lenin has remained in the heads of many of our people and is hindering us from being a truly democratic, European state? Is it normal when there is a European square on the central street of Khrestática at one end, and on the other end there is a monument, in the very heart of the capital, a person who did not love Kiev and who did not love Ukraine? Is it normal when these monuments are found and there is no monument to our Gehtzians in Caneva, Chigirin, other places of Cossack glory, and there are monuments to one of the greatest Ukrainian haters? I believe that now, in order for the decommunization process to take place definitively, we must comply with these orders - and eliminate these monuments. The Ukrainian National Party welcomes the initiative of the Odessa city authorities after the final discommunation of this famous Ukrainian city. And if the authorities don't do that, we'll make it a public, national, human initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u146	Andrew Polit, Communist faction. Instead of Simonek getting ready for Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u147	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! This topic has already been raised twice today in this room, including the Odessites. And I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Central Committee of the Komsomol of Ukraine, the Odessa Roundup of the Company. And I think it will be a statement in response to today's bitter speech by the MP of Ratushny. On 14 June this year, a meeting of the Historical Toponym Commission of the Odessa City Council decided to refer to the Odessa Regional Public Administration, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the dismantling of the city's only monument, Vladimir Ilich Lenin. This monument is located in the Kulikov field in Odessa and is a monument to the architecture protected by law. By 1994-1998, the monuments of Kirov, Sverdlov, Marx and Engelsa had already disappeared into the household of Edouard Gurvica, Mayor of Odessa. After 14 years of independence in Ukraine, do times of war with monuments, street names and squares, wars with their history and memory? Did it have to be done through the courts to get the mayor's chair back in order to rebuild the public, find the enemies of the people, demolish historical monuments and rename the streets? As far as we are concerned today with Vladimir Ilyich Lenin's personality, he is certainly an outstanding public and political figure for our people, the founder of the world's first working and peasant State. Lenin's theoretical heritage is being studied in all leading universities of the world. In addition to the demolition of monuments in Odessa, it is also planned to rename the streets of the October Revolution and the Lenin Komsomol Park. The name of the park named after one of the world's most numerous and authoritative youth organizations, the Commodore and built into the means and with the active participation of the intergenerational Communists, runs counter to the adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, with us. With our 2004 decision on the 85th anniversary of LCSMU and the strengthening of the role of youth social organizations in the education of young people. The Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine and the Odessa Regional Committee of the Party require the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the local authorities of Odessa to end the Waqhanali, to prevent the monument from being demolished by Vladimir Ilic Lenin and the name of the street of the October Revolution and the Lenin Komsomol Park. Get your hands off Lenin! The provocations don't go through! I think this will be a worthy response to my colleague's vicious speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u148	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Instead of Costinuk. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u149	Dear voters! Right today, it was said here that power was in the hands of nationalists and socialists. And it's too much to argue, because all the important positions in the government in the hands of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, not to mention the areas, not to mention the arrangements, where, who will defeat the communists in what areas. But I'm surprised by the actions of the socialist capitalist Baranowski, how he hurts for the agro-industrial complex. According to legislation, 30 percent of the compensation for the production of agricultural machinery should go for compensation. I'm really worried because we have a giant like Hersonian. It's like a Herson Combins factory. This is the kind of government support of a domestic manufacturer. What does this socialist minister do? Costs refer to the cost of loans. Who's taking them, please tell me? Who are these loans to? I remember the end of 2004. 60 million dollars in loans were still unused and lost in this budget. Here are your specific actions in support of the domestic manufacturer. Next. A selection program is in place in Ukraine. Seven million dollars has already been allocated. Who got that money, do you think? Nothing like that. Those who do not even know what such a program is and how it should be implemented have been received. So I want to tell you how government funds can be used to reason. There are government programs that need to be supported. And here's the case for the Attorney General's office. I believe that, both under the Kuchma regime and under this regime, those in power who break the law will never, of course, be punished. But I'm saying these issues should be settled in the Attorney General's office and the court. You can also talk about a lot of other programs as if they're being implemented as if they were "supporting our agriculture." I mean, yes. Both the socialists and the oligarchs have gone up in ecstasy and are working to destroy our culture, our theater, to degrade the rights of 20 percent of the Russian-speaking population of Ukraine. This is the price of this demagogy that they're doing in this room and in the executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u150	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Get Tarasa Blackwall ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u151	Dear fellow national MPs! I was very pleased to hear the representative of Mr. Shurma's SDPU, who raised the issue of combating corruption and various abuses. As the people say, whose cow is running and whose cow is silent. I want to say that, you don't even have to do a thorough analysis, all the state-owned, commercial structures that lead the representatives of this, this criminal-political clan, in those structures, are definitely plagued by crime, and there's a violation of the law. Now, I've recently asked the Attorney General's Office to investigate the activity privatized by representatives of the SDPU itself, and I received an answer from the Attorney General's Office. I don't like the answer at all, so to speak, because the Attorney General's Office confirms this fact, which I was referring to in my question, but it also points to that. And she says that a documentary check found that the VAT on Carpathianblanergo was exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine, according to contracts made with different companies in Latvia, U.S.A. Textiles, textiles and so on and so forth. And when I, you know, get to know these organizations: the activity of the Kiev Dynamo, which trades not only football players, but also socks, bras, oil and what do you want. When Pretzelblanergo also trades criminally in a variety of uncharacteristic structures, and the Attorney General's office just doesn't fix and open, and doesn't bring criminal matters to an end, it's not clear to me at all. I could say, give an example of that, and illustrate that the representatives, where the representatives of the SDPU (oh), are there criminals. We have Sergey Medvedchuk, head of the tax office of Lvivsky. Once Kozak is the director of Western regional customs, a thorough crime. Miroslav Homiek, former heir to Sergio Medvedchuk, is a criminal. Sasuk, Rizak, counting is just hard. So when I don't meet people in any region of Ukraine, people make sure that today's authorities in law enforcement are more active, they say, to put those criminal authorities on the front lines of the entire SDPU criminal and political clan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u152	Taras Cranvill, faction of Ukraine, followed by Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'm very sad. Let me tell you something. I'm very sad that, unfortunately, the new authorities have inherited very well a number of methods of the activity of the bushmism, which they seem to have been fighting so seemingly, and demonstrate the same lack of acceptance simply by the possibility of the opposition to it being so beautiful, and the same methods of carrying out. Kenzier, shut up. And the same attitude with opposition forces through political and legal repression. And I want to stop at a few things that have been going on lately. Our faction has asked the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the discovery of anatomy, for example, the same thing as Kolesnikov, where evidence is found in the evidence base, such as a video recording where Kolesnikov is. I apologize for where Pinchuck, the principal witness and accuser of the sad - looking case, relates how he felt after he had just spoken on the phone with Kolesnikov. Such a level of paperwork is found in a criminal case and is an evidence base, which is the basis of the fact that a person is again held behind bars for two months with a direct violation of the procedural norms of Ukrainian legislation. I want to go to both Piscot and Lucenka, if you're a lawyer, find out how long it's been since this level of evidence can be conclusive and can be the cause of arrest and detention. If you still have a drop of honor and conscience, make a thorough effort to punish those who do. But this has become a trend. Known things that try to spread around Viktor Yanukovich are around other people who are involved in opposition activities and who belong to this environment or who are the leaders of the opposition. At every turn, there's a constant upheaval of public opinion by tying up all sorts of dirty things. By the same methods, both Victor Yushchenko and Julius Timoshenko can be planted today, and by the same methods, they count the same costs at the hot times as needed at the time. And it's very often not necessary, as has been the case lately with the urgent repair of the Ternopil airport under one of Victor Yushchenk's private arrivals and nothing more. Why I am alert to these very problems involving people who. take first place in the opposition. And because political repression has the ability to go down. Many applauded when the decision of the court overturned the President’s election. Fewer people applauded and pondered when the Kolesnikov business began. And these things begin to reach each individual citizen step by step. The mahogany of repression is easy to break, and it is very difficult to stop. So our call is to stop the repression and punish those who are really to blame. And our colleagues. To enjoy it, because this rascal could ever touch them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u154	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist faction. Instead of Peter, prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u155	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues and distinguished radio listeners, are primarily our constituencies, and our constituencies. I went to this rostrum to remind you that two days ago the Supreme Council of Ukraine failed those bills that were aimed at restoring state regulation, restoring state ownership and restoring state influence on all socio-economic problems. Only two factions voted in favour of these bills. One of them, allegedly by the authors, voted that the whole acceptance that 22 percent of government ownership was or was only because the Qutshma regime for 14 years during December 2004 was very actively supported by a faction called the faction of the people. I mean Communists. Today, when translating theirs, it's always from a sick head to a healthy one, translating all their actions that supported the Bushman regime, they're using some terms that remind me of a simple parrot, you know, one pirate named Silver who's been yelling all the time, "Piasters! Piasters!" By 2004, the piasters were gone, as if normal. We can talk about both nationalists and socialists now, but we don't understand what we're talking about. That's the first one. The other one. Today, and this is a problem, a problem that's extremely serious, is once again what's going on in privatization. The law on guarantees of rights for privatized property owners has already been launched in the Supreme Council, which provides that, regardless of any action, all those who "accepted" the property of the state in 92-2005 will be amnesty. And you can't let that happen. And I'd like to be here, who's listening to me today, that we're extremely serious. Oh, they don't listen anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u156	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u157	So again, I'd like to point out that a lot of businesses that are now "accommodated", owners of these companies are violating shareholders' rights, in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u158	Yeah, no. Your time is up. Anisim, faction of socialists, Viacheslav After him, Sietch. Communists, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u159	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anisimov, 30 constituency, town of Dneprodžinsk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich, respected radio listeners! It has repeatedly been said that reprisals are applied under the current regime against the regime of the deceased. I'll tell you a few examples when people who represented the previous regime have already put their roots in the regime that is now in power. Their desire to remain in power is sometimes simply striking. There seems to be no obstacle to moral order for those who have repeatedly changed their political makeup over the past 13 years. Well, you know, it happens all over Ukraine. But in the city of Dneprodjyrnsk, it seems to be simply a nuisance, and the political ascension of individual actors simply becomes a farce. The socialist party did not hear a scandal when a parallel structure was established, and those who formed and fought the previous regime did not stay in business, but those who worked for Mr. Janukovic today are well-managed by the socialist community organization. The funny thing is that the chairman of the territorial electoral commission, the person who did everything possible to vote in our city in Dneprodžinsk, 70 per cent, I stress, is 70 per cent behind Yanukovič, now also a red-headed socialist and is part of a faction of socialists in the mountains, a faction that, by the way, was not born in the city of Dneprodžinsk. Even more surprising things are happening with the city organization of the “Batskina” party. On this point, I would like to address the Prime Minister directly. Dear Julia Vladimirovna, of course you remembered your last visit to Dneprodžinsk. Of course, he left a heavy impression on your soul. You remember how a group of young men actively prevented you from meeting with the voters. What they didn't do: the eagles, the whistles, the drums, the powerful sound-enhancing apparatus, once and for all, they played a fun song about Victor Fedorovich. I remember you talking indignantly about how you never met such a hammock. At that time, these young men were protected by a powerful police border. What's interesting is that the main city trooper has already been removed, and those guys who set you up in Dneprodžinska travla are now headed by the "Batakščina" city organization. I didn't plan or plan to interfere in the internal affairs of the Socialist Party and the Fatherland. I have just been approached by representatives of these parties on several occasions and have been asked to provide this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u160	Mihailou, faction of the People's Party. Chicanov passed on the word to Peter. There's no Sith. Then please, Petrov Viktor Borisovich instead of Chickanov. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u161	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Petrov, Communist faction, Vinnitsk district. On June 15, a protest was held in Winnice near the walls of the district government, in which, apart from the vineyards, a delegation, a group of sugar factories:..., komarov.., government and higher. The workers of these factories are forced to protect their businesses from destruction. As well as representatives of most districts protesting the liquidation of 11 districts in the area, most of the village councils, schools, and hospitals. At the request of the meeting participants, I announce the requirements. "We, as participants in the protest rally, declare our readiness to fight decisively for the rights and interests of the working people, against the course of power at hand. Ukraine, transforming it into a colonial commodity of the West. Action by the authorities indicates that the presidential outfits in Ukraine have resulted in the preservation of the old regime, the continuation of the Qustimism under the new sign. The president openly ignores the fulfillment of his pre-election promises, does not do anything to create promised additional jobs, in the country food prices are rising rapidly, housing tariffs are rising, municipal services are rising. The Winnicks are outraged that the City Council session decided to double the rent. The rallyers demand that the city council members cancel the decision. The government continues to experiment criminally with the people, trying to carry out what is called territorial reform, which will further accelerate the extinction of the village. We demand that the deputies speak out against the intentions of carrying out this shameful reform in the country. We find it unacceptable to say that the head of the Ivanov District Council approves the reform project without taking into account the opinion of the population and the public area. The district’s leadership insolently and unpunishedly continues to destroy the leading industries, especially sugar. Seven Winnitzka sugar mills, effective, so - called owners have already cut the metal scrap. In spite of the protests, the same threat came to Moevsky, Skomorozhski, Vladivski, Bersivski, Vychodjavski, and other sugar factories. The village’s extinction is accelerating. We require the head of the district government and the government to preserve and restore sugar factories. We find it unacceptable to be in the position of deputy head of the Corovia government, who in recent years, with a new, orange power, is doing economic work and destroying it. We protest against trying to rehabilitate UN UPA soldiers. We find it unacceptable for the authorities and some political forces to act on the falsification of history. We demand the head of the Dombrovsky State's public apology to the veterans of the Great Homeland War for his statement at the 60th anniversary of the Victory. We urge all workers to take an active stand against violations of their constitutional rights, and we urge all those who care about the country's fate to engage in the civil and political movement of the Left Front of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u162	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Ivan Tomic behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u163	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! National MPs from the Company are getting reports of all the new facts of the illegal activities of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. There's a city on the U.S. Polissa, which this year will mark the 1300th anniversary. Despite the crisis in the state, in recent years its residents, led by Communist city chief Volodymyr Moskalenko, have achieved good results in improving the business’s well - being and gassing the city. This is evidenced by the busy leading positions in the area and in Ukraine. There would seem to be a reason for the nation’s leadership to be satisfied with the situation in the city. But that was not what was supposed to happen. With the hands of law enforcement agencies in the city, real repression has been solved, and people have been blackmailed and intimidated to sit down if they refuse to testify about the abuse of the city’s head. With the same goal, physical violence is used in subtle ways. There is documentary evidence of this. So on June 14, this year, in an ancient city, representatives of the district attorney’s office and police were given a real show with the admiration of several dozen law - enforcement officers of the city’s council building and the organization of searches in the offices, the intimidation of the staff of the institution. All of this was done without a court decision. There was no need for such a storm, of course. After all, all the documents that seemed to have tried to find the bombers were repeatedly unhindered. The city’s inhabitants are shocked by such activities by the State’s law enforcement agencies. Today, at the next session of the Corestinian City Council, a decision has been made to condemn an artificially created line of law, which I am more than certain is ruled by Kiev. For seven years I worked personally in the famous Korosten in various railway stations, and I am well acquainted with the hardworking and wise inhabitants of this city. Therefore, I am confident that no one will be able to break them. And let him that wishes to do so not forget the fate of one stricken prince of Kiev who was torn to pieces. It's just... it's... Stick with the police, the communists of Ukraine with you, and together we are the force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u164	Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u165	Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainian Farmers! On June 2, 2005, the village of Chubinski received the second country-wide village party, with the participation of all the community organizations of the village, which commissioned the approval. "We, the participants of the second All-Ukrainian Village Evening, are authorized by Ukrainian peasants to declare the following. The Ukrainian village, as a spiritual and moral cradle of the nation, as a unique phenomenon of world civilization, is the foundation for the development of the whole country, fortifying its well - being. We are deeply concerned about the socio-economic state of Ukrainian villages. The Ukrainian village remains the most vulnerable chain of society. And Ukrainian agrarian politics for the trots of independence has gone from essentially administrative to a partially democratic model of governance, as national in form, to still remain Soviet in content and, in particular, in governance. We believe that a change in the situation will allow for better: first, a radical change in the ideology of agrarian politics, to which so-called programming support should be reviewed, in order to move to the proper integrated development of rural areas where rural people are at the centre. Second, by combining efforts in behalf of the welfare of the Ukrainian people, the APC public organizations aim to build civil society, reach a dialogue of power, and adopt a law that strengthens such rights of public organizations in the area of the APC. Third, the development and adoption of the Single Land Tax Act. Fourth, saving the benefits, adding value to the companies by 2010. Fifth, the 2006 government budget approval to support the agrarian sector costs not less than 15% of its total expenditure. And for social development, not less than 1% of GDP. Eighthly, to recommend to the Government, in accordance with the Law on State Support for Agricultural Production, to provide prices with market conditions from the 2005 harvest, which take into account the proposals of the public organisations of the APC. In particular, 3rd grade wheat is 823 bracelets. Developing a non-profit cooperative development programme, such as the state fund's support for such structures, the creation of wholesale fruit markets, recognition of an agrarian nation's priority policy, not on purchasing, but on selling agricultural products and developing new markets. With a view to fulfilling the requirements, we will soon be addressing the organization of the meeting with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u166	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Sound is off. Victor Taran, Vladimir Lechchenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u167	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, friends, colleagues. To order today's session on the bill project, which is so beautifully called "Prohibition of Political Persecution." Yet, the beautiful name is followed by a very different objective: to protect criminal criminals by presenting them as victims of a new power. The very setting of this issue demeans Ukraine. But when criminal criminals try to glue unfortunate victims here, it is long overdue for us to say a high point about the real heroes of bitter Ukrainian freedom. Unfortunately, not everyone in Ukraine knows these people. It is not known that the state system of the Soviet Union was not at all interested in the Ukrainian spirit, the Ukrainian patriots. Today, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko raises his word for the outstanding Ukrainian poet and politician Vasil Stus, who was murdered by the Chegebists. Vassil Stus, who was in the corporate dictatorship at the Ukrainian cinema, offered to stand up to protest against the arrests of Ukrainian intelligence. This unprecedented challenge of the regime gave him the invitation of Bolshevik femida to many years of prison mandrels. September 4th of this year is 20 years old from the anniversary of Basil Stus' death on a concentration camp of Ural prison land. And this woeful date should mark Ukraine by honoring Vasil Stus and his brothers, Alex Tiho and Yuri Litvina, at the highest level of state. We, the People's Deputies of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, express our concern to the President of Ukraine for the assignment of the posthumous name Hero of Ukraine to Vasilev Stusu. We demand that the Kyiv authorities establish a memorial to Vasilev Stusu in Lviv Square and the civil repudiation of what he was talking about in the Lviv square is planned to build a church, are empty and cynical denials, for the temple of God and the monument of Vasilev Stusu next to it are merely mutually reinforcing the aura of spirituality, the highest justice. Basil Stus lived and worked on Donetsk, on this beautiful but also bitterly damaged Ukrainian land, because there are still no Ukrainian schools, for there is still very little Ukrainian word. Because nobody seems to be here today. We do not need a native language, and we insist on opening at least a branch of the Basil Stus Museum in Lugansk. You can't love Ukraine with your eyes closed. And every nation that respects itself must see and know its heroes and the very dignity of the memory of Basil Stus will raise the moral and spiritual consciousness of the Ukrainian nation and the honor of our nation among the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction. Instead of Baburin, Puzakov
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u169	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Days have passed since the Ukrainian national deputy Lechchenko, together with a group of peasants, started fighting for the implementation of the current Ukrainian legislation, including the decrees of the President of Ukraine regarding the protection of property rights of residents of the small village of Lebedin, located in the Korob region of Chernigiv. There have been several requests and references to the leadership of the government, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Attorney General of Ukraine. The president has changed, a new cabinet of ministers has arrived, new heads of district and district government are working. But it's not going to work out. The question is very simple. After the restructuring of the former Colosseum Progress, some 300 landowners and property owners decided to establish their own farm in the village of Lebedin. It would be fair to divide the land and property between the two new farms and let them own it. No, it's not. This, you see, is not what the founder of the private agro-firm "Progress" Kapica wants. And he was supported by the old man in his shameful actions, and he supported the new authority. The cap has even resorted to gross violations of current legislation, manipulations, of which my statement of desperation has already written in some, the head of the Lebeden-1 community, Koshelenko Galina Volodymirovna. I appeal to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Mr Piscoun: Mr. Svetoslav Mikhajlovich, to examine carefully the facts set out in this statement and finally to take steps to respond to the current legislation of Ukraine. Please also consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. In this regard, I add Kashalenko’s statement. As for the traitors of the working people of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, she had her fraternization with capitalists and nationalists driven herself into a dead end. Now he doesn't know how to get out of it. That's why they eat at the Communist Party of Ukraine. Shame on them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u170	Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u171	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Not long ago, from the orange Kyiv hills of the revolutionary’s mouth, there was a sweet vow — a profound change in Ukraine’s health system. Someone was excited, and someone grabbed their head. But today's plans for the newly discovered med reformers are quite shocking, because their motto is to shut down the extra hospitals, cut the extra footage. But it is not likely that hospitals, even children, are being taken to improve them into a European system, but they are likely to be transformed into a European brothel. This is today being tolerated by the City City Children's Hospital "Dobrodja", which is being reorganized into the children's centre of medical diagnostics and rehabilitation. The center is located in a picturesque part of the city. This may have attracted the attention of the new authorities, who have more than once shown the disadvantaged Ukrainians how they can get a good night’s rest. Why not? In a month they will build a European sauna and brothels for all one hundred, and there is where to meet the ministers and there will be no shame to the local oligarchs. There is no other reason. That is why the local oligarchs and health authorities came under one strain after the medical institution was destroyed. And the director of health care at the Kyrovograd City Council of Pivovarczuk is flawless in following instructions. Even the global problem has been posed as if to create a rehabilitation centre for children with disabilities. It was forgotten that two years ago, the City Health and Education Department, in the same way, destroyed the Children’s Song. I remind the medical reformers that there are 3,197 children with disabilities in the area, 699 in the city, and 20,000 children in the Dobužya Medical Center. Where are they going, since there is no similar institution in the city or in the area? The labour force and the public of the city approached Julia Timoshenko, the local authorities, the city’s prosecutor and the district, but there was no response to the corruption. Therefore, on behalf of the victims, I appeal to the President of Ukraine: I must make an honest promise to wage an active fight against crime and corruption. And I'm asking you to protect your children from the misconduct of the corrupts of the city of Kirovgrad and the area. And I would like you to count as a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Timoshenko and the Attorney General of Ukraine Piscoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u172	Please. Yes, the names of Ratushna and Shurma were mentioned. Please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u173	Deputies! [[Mikhailo Ratushny.]] Well, I'm uncomfortable when my sincere Ukrainian nationalist smile is called Russian phrase, Russian "scary rock." I'm asking you to use terminology, even in the context of Ukrainian language. I'm against the major liquidation of Lenin Monuments in Ukraine, and I think it's going to be a very good place and an assessment of the role of this figure in Ukraine's history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u174	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u175	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I want to refer to the deputy who named my last name, and above all, he is known in Lviv for his last name, which in all decades in the Supreme Council has not come up with a single bill. He's just doing the destruction. It's the first one. Which, despite receiving five thousand bracelets a month’s wages, did not make it to any charity. And then he said, "The man who didn't build any doghouse in his life." His hatred for SDPU(o) is related to the fact that he lost two courts in Lvv because of the honour and dignity of the united Social Democrats and failed to justify it. For leading the National Movement of Ukraine in Lviv, he observed in silence how the history of Ukraine was sold, and he gave in to the testimony of the signature of the Xinchenka cosmopolitan at the Orelata cemetery. He sold the history of Ukraine, leading the district organization. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-17-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we've taken our time. I'm informing you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin on June 21st at ten o'clock. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
